ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.1.0	The session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in full is included in the plenary file and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, will now be substantiated as the first item on the agenda of this new plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] According to the Ministry 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year there are a total of 810 victims dead and disappeared in the Mediterranean. [[Question to the Government about the need to guarantee citizen security (postponed)]] [[300-00181/13]] I would also like to point out that, in accordance with Rule 160.6 of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the request made by the Government and the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, the question to the Government on the need to guarantee citizens' security, which appears as 14th item of the agenda, is postponed until the next plenary session. Therefore, in this case, let us change the agenda. And we're going to ask the government. [[Ask the Government about the beginning of the school year]] [[310-00309/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the initiation of the school year. The question is posed by Mrs Nogay Ndiaye, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.2.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, do you often repeat that education does not go of percentages but of learnings, and that the proposed changes have a pedagogical sense..., so the question is: the hidden privatization that is preparing for this very beginning of the course and that which is being undertaken by the majority of families in Catalonia pursues some pedagogical object or is it only to feed public money into the lobby of the concerta and private businesses of the educational environment?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.3.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.4.0	Thank you, President. MP Ndiaye, MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, not fem, obviously no privatization.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.5.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.6.0	During the last few weeks, you have flagged one of the star measurements of the Education Department: the reduction of rates to P3. A measure that was already guaranteed by the fall of the birth of the later years; a reduction that has been nothing more than a reduction of seats to the public in favor of the concert. As this reduction in rates has not been accompanied by an expansion of lines or an increase in teaching, this reduction in rates has consisted merely of the disappearance of five places in each of the P3 lines of all the educational centres in Catalonia. A public school space thief who has not completed the concerted school, who continues to keep the rates at twenty-five, who, moreover, will continue to receive public money for these twenty-five places, even if not to fill them; a veil of public money to private entities to pay for services that do not last. But far from contenting himself only with this, he decided to make the monster even bigger by mitting another one of the proposals with which the mouth is filled, the one to guarantee the continuity of the secondary alumni to the middle-grade format cycles. And the double pre-registration term that you have decided to put on the table has condemned hundreds of students who are attending secondary education or the course of access to middle-grade formative cycles at adult schools to seek an alternative private training or to abandon studies and prove fate in the world of work. To your slogan of "Education in the long life, there is a gap: "Education in the long life for whom it can be paid. And if it still seemed a little bit, its later star proposal: to guarantee free time for all the students for the afternoons of September, also a disproposal of privatizations without planning or organization that has ended up feeling a pyphia. There are no monitors to guarantee extracurriculars by September. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.7.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.8.0	Well, then, good morning again. Let's see, Congresswoman Ndiaye, what you're explaining doesn't fit what you're really going through. We don't reduce public seats. In front of a six_per_cent less children to child 3, what we do is increase the groups in a eight_per_cent. Therefore, we increase the places of the public offer. And that's how you look at it like you look at it. Therefore, we increase the offer of the public. What else do we do? We lower rates, we increase groups, we fight segregation – very important –, paradigm shift: what we do is identify the student in a situation of vulnerability before he enters the education system. Let's make a leap forward: identify the set_per_cent, face to face with the next course and identify the split_per_cent thanks to the work that is done from the joints with the department. We reserve these seats and make a balanced distribution of this student, with economic support from the first student. Therefore, what we do is: we lower rates, increase groups in public school and distribute the student in a vulnerable situation in a balanced manner. Therefore, what we do is a clear bet to fight against segregation. In the first option, families will enter with very similar numbers: a ninety-two-per-cent of families – new_of_each_of_you– will enter in the first option, and, therefore, are very similar numbers, practically identical, to that of previous courses. I, with every year, to the families – with every year – who do not enter the first option, it's all the follow-up it takes. You live installed in the protest. We can't fight segregation and now there are families who only triage a school option, a concrete school. What we do is we give more than a ninety-two percent answer to the first options, we fight segregation and we defend the public school. And all the families that only triage a public school have a place in a public school. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.9.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the evaluation of the 2021-2022 school year. [[Ask the Government about the evaluation of the 2021-2022 school year]] [[310-00305/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, there are a few days to complete the 21-22 school year. I wanted to ask you what value it makes this your first course as a counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.11.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.12.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. So, as you know, it's been a very intense, exciting, day-to-day, firm course to bring about the transformations that the education system..., the 2030 hour of transformations that the education system requires. Not because we haven't done well so far, but because we need to start a new stage after the pandemic, because precisely this course has still been a pandemic course. We started the course in pandemic and we had a generation with a very difficult, very complex time for our educational centers. Now we're maskless, but we still have all the emotional effects of the pandemic. And that is why I take advantage, Mrs Niubó, also to place her in a position to hold and defend with firmness the covid resources of State support, which for the moment we have been told that the coming course will not arrive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.13.0	To answer the question, Mrs Esther Niubó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.14.0	Thank you. So look, counselor, we understand that your department needs to improve, and a lot. You suspect in inclusive school. You haven't deployed, you haven't made any impulses from the deployment of the 2017 decree. You, therefore, have not promoted any specific training to the centres; you have explained teaching resources to centres of maximum complexity and also to unique centres, such as Eladi Homs, of Valls, when this Parliament voted to increase its professionals. And doing so is not contributing to the struggle against segregation, after many years of inaction and inertia that they have caused an increase in inequality. And, if not, how does it explain that a department supposedly left keeps an hour more at the concert and doesn't get an hour back to the public? That's how the second-grader student goes to the public, and we understand that we don't want this, and it's a long time since we've been flushing. And this will continue to happen the next month of September, where, if you do not improvise change us, the public will do all three hours and mediate lessons before the six will do the concert. And that, counselor, is a scandal in terms of fairness. And what do I get from the address alert, which said that there is – and I do – a real risk that the entire public education system collapses and cannot guarantee the functioning of the public school with minimum standards of quality? But how calmly does he give this to the families? Too much governance; clear priorities, and education is one. And, really, we've been surprised – I'm sorry to say so – by this bar of blaming the Spanish government for withdrawing the covid resources when we don't have a covid problem now; what we have is a structural deficit of teachers and educational support staff from many years ago, really, since you ruled. In the matter of FP, we said that the increase in the bid announced is insufficient – we are in June, we do not have the curriculum decrees. And, on the gratuity of I2, we have said enough that it will be thanks to the very important contribution of the assemblies of all political colors, but above all those who, moreover, have made social tariff and who are now giving up universalization. You were also committed to doing forty-four school constructions this year, and it finally seems that it will be twenty-two. We'd like to know which of the twenty-two municipalities he's going to say no. But, in short, you have caused a high level of school attendance, with protests that make many years that are not seen – tomorrow a new school day – with a high degree of uncertainty, of discomfort for decisions taken at the margin of dialogue and agreement. And, effectively, you hold on, you're holding on to this pressure, but don't be fooled: the education system and its quality are supported in the teachers and in the centers. And, if we want the proper course to substantially improve what this has been, you have to work harder, you have to make important changes in your governance system. And, therefore, I want to ask you what these changes will be. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.15.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.16.0	Thank you. You, Mrs Niubó, said very well: the education system has many folds. I moved some of the reptes to which we answer the coming course as the novelty. "Novelty means that it's new, that until now it hasn't happened, and so on, that until now it hasn't passed into the education system and that we all share that they're good for the students – they're all good for the students. He said: reduction of ration, start of the ration reduction path; agreement for gratuitousness for the schooling of children 2, a country policy for equal opportunities and social cohesion. What he explained to the previous question: an agreement also in the fight against segregation for this balanced distribution, with economic support from the first student, to distribute the whole student in a situation of vulnerability balancedly. If we have segregated schools, one time we have segregated them, we dedicate the maximum amount of resources, but they continue to be segregated, and therefore, what we have to do is a change of look at the entry of the child education system 3 and first of ESO. Incredibly, as never before, of the offer of vocational training. We're increasing more for the coming course than we've increased in the last five years together. And, therefore, I am convinced that it will be sufficient to respond to all requests. And, anyway, now we don't have the information to know, but I'm convinced it'll be that way, and if not, we'll act accordingly. To protect, with the support of the four groups of the chamber – very important –... has been a course where we have also confirmed the model of Catalan school and we have legally protected the educational centers. And, in view of September, listen to me: public centres and concerted centres in September will do the same proportion of teaching hours that they do in October, November and December, and that will be the same way. And for what he does to constructions, we'll make them all. In any case, I understand from your question that the terms of constructions have sometimes been adapted, but we will do them all. Anyway, if there's a delay, it's not the Department of Education's will, it's the construction rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.17.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the actions relating to Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya. [[Asks the Government about the activities related to Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[310-00306/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Terrades, Member of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.18.0	Mr Vice President, the line of Llobregat-Anoia-Bages is a reality that has a lack of investment, in maintaining, of new investments announced and not materialized, actions that improve the commercial speed of the railway and make it competitive. It would be easy – I would be very easy to pull from your manual or from your government's manual – when incidents or accidents happen in other lines, to different operators, to criticize it with whatever fan you are. I won't. Mr Vice President, when will the Government of Catalonia make structural investments to the Llobregat-Anoia-Bages line?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.19.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.20.0	Thank you, President. Congressman Terrades, Miri, when I came to Parliament today I thought, what question would you ask me about... about the railways, right? And I was wondering if you'd like to ask me and compare me, in this case, the investments we make to Railroads, compared to those you went to Renfe. Or, to put it this way, the non-investments you make in Catalonia. Miri, in terms of investments, surely you want to be the ones this year, but it seems to me that they were going to be this year, too, huh? And in any case, I can assure you that the Llobregat-Anoia line will be a priority in this legislature, just as the Vallès line has been in the past years, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.21.0	To answer the question, Mr. Jordi Terrades has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.22.0	Counselor, coming from Igualada to Barcelona by Railroad is hardly attractive: ninety-four minutes, twice as much as by bus. And that we still don't have the bus-way to Barcelona. Single track, delays, tight curves, limited speed to lack adequate infrastructure, surface level steps, small or very small parking lots, insecure. The government has announced many plans, but few assumptions and execution, too, substantially improved. You, who criticize so much, you who criticize so much, would have to demand the same as you ask the others. At the branch of the Bages we have similar deficits respect the R-6, little competitive, too. Moreover, we have to add various complaints from the drivers around the maintenance of this infrastructure, especially in the middle bridges. We'd like to meet, counselor, as they will. And two final questions. You have announced that you want to manage, from Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya, the line to the airport, which will be ready at the beginning of the year 2024, which will certainly leave the Vallesos without direct access. When do you plan to sign the contract with Alstom to build the trains you should donate to this new line? Because making a train and approving it, for the bottom, it's about thirty-six months and we're already out of line. And finally, Mr. Counselor, we would like to know why Catalonia does not have a commission to investigate railway accidents, independent of the operator and the management of the infrastructure. It seems reasonable that when there is an accident or an incident the technical investigation does not directly do it the company affected, as it passes to Catalonia. He's thinking about changing the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.23.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.24.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, you've asked me a bunch of questions, I'll try to answer them all. I don't know if I can run out... anyway, I could use the thirty-six percent of the time, but I'll make it all work, huh? And, therefore, in this sense, then, in the first place, tell him that what is not meant is "to blackmail or blackmail the Government of the Generality on the issue of the purchase of trains by Renfe". They're very easy, aren't they? We'll get our money and we'll buy it for ourselves. But I do not link this purchase to a program contract, in this case, with an operator who... as you well know, we are negotiating with you in Madrid precisely to see how we want the model of the future to be in Catalonia. And I think this is one of the country's major consensuses. Just, uh, today... today we've reached a big consensus agreement, huh? , with the Catalan theme. I'm glad you're still there, huh? The CEO says that Catalonia has some consensus that represents more than seventy per cent of society. The català is one. And I congratulate them and thank them for following. The other one's from the reference, huh? That they're not there. But the other one is the wheelbarrow. And here I want to see if you, when the time of truth comes, you will be in this transition, and therefore you will worry about the citizens of Catalonia that every day you use rollers. And look, I'm not giving him the figures of what the State is investing in Catalonia at this time in the matter of investments, huh? , the thirty-sis_per_cent respects the hundred_width of Madrid. Lucky, lucky, huh? , that the minister is from the PSC. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.25.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in plenary on the management of the alleged case of sexual abuse of agents of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Ask the Government about the management of the alleged sexual abuse of Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra agents]] [[310-00307/13]] The question is put by Mr Ramon Espadaler, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.26.0	Thank you. Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, through the communication media and also the unions, we have known the presentation of up to five concrete complaints by agents of the Squad Coast for alleged sexual assimilation for a doctor working at the Department of Interior. We would like to know how much you value the action of the department that leads, that presides, particularly in the application of the protocol against sexual rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.27.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.28.0	Well, president, deputy. In the first place, what I want is to take advantage of the opportunity to condemn these facts. They're really amazing, supposedly criminal. They are, above all, because they leave from a position of superiority and explain to us, too, that it is possible, that this may happen. And, therefore, it forces us to be absolutely loving, all, naturally more than anyone else, the political leaders, and in particular in this case, the Councillor of the Interior. We have practiced a series of measures; some measures that, since June 2021, have been implemented on the basis of expedients to the alleged offender. And we have also applied the internal mechanisms that were established, in particular the protocol and also the COVAS, for its development. And it is true that it has occurred on the part of the people, the victims, a set of complaints linked above all to follow-up and follow-up, which we have tried to resolve. And in this sense, therefore, we are at a time of change and revision of the protocol, also from the hands of the unions, with whom we were talking about this matter to the Police Council. And then I'll explain to you who are the concrete measures that we've applied to last year's June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.29.0	To answer the question, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.30.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselor, first of all, add our words to the sentence and repudiation of the presumed facts on the part of this meth, I would just miss, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group you see, right? Miri, on July 30, you're going to approve a modification of a protocol for the preservation and detection of acts... resolution of situations of sexual settlement, which, in theory, should have been applied. And say in theory, because, if we stick to what happened last year, it's the June of last year that's the first complaint, it's the June of last year that the judge blames this person for a alleged sexual assault crime, and it's until one year after the Interior Department doesn't separate this person from this place of work. Up to a year later. There is a complaint, there is a complaint, there is a complaint, there is a third complaint..., and they take timid measures, first of all, that I cannot visit the women of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the other bodies of the Department of Interior; then, that these should be dated beforehand..., you have been doubtful. And I'd like to remind you that protocol is very explicit in that sense. The protocol to be approved by you on 30 July 2020. And he talks, among other things, about creating fast and efficient intervention circuits. Among the objects he talks about celerity. Because we're talking about a tremendously sensitive issue. Imagine 'how are the victims who have made this complaint and perhaps the victims who have not yet dared to make it. Imagine if she's triga a year away from this person, so she's really, really hard to hear. And then he shows up... you say it now and the other day the secretary general says, we'll have to change some aspects of the protocol. No, no, what's going to change is the way the protocol applies. Perhaps what will change is some of the department's officials who have failed to know what they themselves have been thinking about in this protocol. The problem is not protocol. The problem is the government, and it is the Department of the Interior, which has neither been able to hold the celerity nor the firmness before such a difficult issue as we are dealing with, that it is the sexual assimilation of members of the Squad Coast. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.31.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.32.0	Thank you. Congressman, last June we had members of the knowledge department of this situation. The first thing that was done was what had not been done, which is to give legal assistance to this..., to the victim in concrete. Once we had knowledge of the facts through legal assistance what was done was to open a first consignor, which, as you know, when it is then brought to justice is to be closed and only temporary measures can be taken and so..., precautionary, and so it was. Later, in the second case, the victim was also given legal advice. In this case, he preferred not to keep it. Don't go in there. And when we got to know about the administered shipment, that person... was also open-ended, closed the shipment by obligation as a result of a situation... a criminal trial, and making a measure that wasn't close enough for many and many years, because it's especially complicated in the administered shipments, which is to expel, suspend from occupation and from being the person. Measures have been taken and others must be reviewed, naturally. And that's why we're... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.33.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the situation of education before the beginning of the 2022-2023 course]] [[310-00296/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the situation of education before course start 2022-2023. The question is put by Mr Jordi Jordan, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.34.0	Good morning, Counselor. First of all, an incis respect for the questions already asked by the MPs and MPs of the PSC, welcome to the consensus on the criticism of Councillor Cambray. I encourage them to take a step further and this time, yes, to join the councillor's resignation petition in accounts. [[applause]] To follow it by swallowing it over and over again...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.35.0	Please, Mr. Jordan, center's on the question, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.36.0	...as we've seen these last few weeks. And now, Mr. Counselor. Frankly, it was complicated that a good news like the download of ration ended also in a new fracturing of his counseling. There was not enough to hold all the professorship against, which has now joined the damages for Cambray the hundreds of families that will be left without place to the public school, even if they have asked for it. And all of this, the same week that you yourself recognized that you won't have enough reading monitors to look after what you also announced from a window, and without talking to anyone, as is the progress of the school calendar. In the absence of a dialog, we must now add the lack of planning to a positive issue such as the reduction of wattage. But, as you proposed, it will end up turning into a government bizum to private and concerted. In short, Mr. Counselor, come to this point, we can only ask you a question. What do you expect to present your resignation? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.37.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.38.0	Well, then, I place them, as I always do, is that, beyond the sound of some, vagina to the fetus. Vague to all decisions oriented to the students, that what they will do is advance the education system. Some decisions that you, at the Barcelona Education Consortium, with the forty_percent of the Barcelona Education Consortium, take together with the Education Department, all of them. All the decisions we make for the education of the country also take them to the city of Barcelona. With you. With the forty_per_cent of the Barcelona Education Consortium, years ago. And more this past year, with all the news, you've been in favor. So, they do what they get used to doing later, that they surprise me from you, that they say one thing here and say another thing outside. I didn't recognize any lack of monitors on the leurea. I didn't recognize him. I didn't recognize it because we're working on the proposal that more consent has after listening to everyone. We said what we said we'd do: move the five-day course to the schools, three days to the institutes, and listen to everyone. And that's what we've been doing for months. And, therefore, the proposal you have the most consensus is that of the Education Department, and, therefore, the entities in the leurea will guarantee this time: time to be educated in the morning at school time; middle, time to be educated; education in the leurea at late. And the entities will guarantee this offer of education monitors in the classroom with the follow-up of the Department of Education, so that directions make it easy for them to manage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.39.0	In answer, Mr. Jordi Jordan has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.40.0	Look, counselor, think I'm deeply sorry, but it's not the time to fix your mistakes, this time has passed. We asked him for a moratorium on the calendar so that he could establish the dialog that he had not done since the beginning. Of course, in Barcelona it was done at the Bressol schools, this moratoria. We asked him to add resources to the public school to complete the down payment. And what you have done has been to reduce the offer of public places to our system by an eleven_per_cent. We asked him to continue with the parties, with the unions to negotiate, to dialogue and to avoid an educational gap and to do so with the families, and, obviously, he did not. And, therefore, we arrive at this point, the only one we ask of you and also President Aragonès is to look for a relay in front of the council in front of September, because Catalonia cannot afford a lost legislature in the field of education. And you know that you have lost the trust of the educational community, the parents, the seas and the majority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.41.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.42.0	Course advancement – measure –; everyone coincides with it, it's a good measure for the student. It's a family reconciliation measure at cent_per_cent. It doesn't affect the master's labor rights, they do the same class hours. And the Department of Education we have advanced, to make it possible, all structural designations. Therefore, what I have not just heard is that before a good measure for your students continue, continue, continue to stick to the wheels. Ratio reductions: increase in the public offer – increase in the public offer. A six-per-cent student is returned to enter the system as a child 3, and we increase a eight-per-cent of the groups. We distribute the student in a balanced way, we fight against segregation and, moreover, the answer to the first family options is kept in line and with the same numerical proportion as the last few years, from the ninety-two percent. Therefore, all the confidence that from this government and from the Department of Education we continue to drive with the educational community, beyond the sound of some, the policies that will actually advance the education of this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.43.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on vaccination procedures against the covid. [[Ask the Government about vaccination procedures against the covid]] [[310-00302/13]] The question is put by Mr Jordi Fàbrega, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.44.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the pandemic of covid-19 has been the worst health crisis in our lives. More than 27,000 people have died in Catalonia. With the words of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Covid-19, vaccination has been the most effective measure of public health for its prevention, especially of the heaviest forms and associated mortality; it has minimized the impact of the pandemic on the health system and the economy, especially protecting the most vulnerable. It is estimated that Catalonia saved more than two thousand lives and avoided more than 38,000 hospitalizations. The vaccination programme was carried out following the strategy of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. The priority of the groups to be vaccinated was achieved according to ethical and scientific criteria: first the most vulnerable and with a higher risk of exposure and transmission, the health and socio-health personnel; then, the collections considered essential, and, finally, the general population according to age. This first stage was marked by a limited availability of doses of cows and changes to cows to be used in view of the safety problems of the AstraZeneca vaccine, and this forced a delay in vaccination in collections younger than sixty years. In Catalonia, 16 million doses of cows have been administered against the covid-19; an unprecedented and logistically very complex campaign, thanks to the efforts of thousands of people, and has demonstrated the solidarity of the citizenry and its trust in the professionals of salvation. The vaccination coverages in Catalonia are of the highest in the world a 91,2_per_cent in the majors or equal to twelve years. A campaign of vaccination praised by the world and which has rejected the congratulations of the entire world scientific community. In the face of this successful campaign, the toga of Spanish injustice have opened an investigation into a presumed delay in the vaccination of agents of the National Police and the Civil Guard. An intolerable judicial assault on the four professionals who have led the overcoming of the covid-19 in Catalonia. This judicial aggression has triggered a solidarity response that has never been seen in the whole of Catalan sanitation, with countless displays of support from all over the sector and demonstrations in front of all the health centres in the country. We'd like to know, counselor, what is the opinion of the department before this unjust investigation. And from Juntes to Catalunya, we want to give our deepest recognition and thanks to Dr. Carmen Cabezas, Dr. Adrià Comella, Ms. Sara Manjón and Mr. Xavier Rodríguez. [[Greetings.]] Your professional and service commitment is unquestionable. As the whole sector and the whole country has told you, except for those I hate in Catalonia blind people, 16_million thanks, Carmen, Adriana, Sara and Xavier. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.45.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.46.0	Thank you, President. Member, Members, Members... You have explained this very well, the strategy that has been followed to vaccinate is a strategy based on European strategy and adapted for the National Public Health Commission which is primarily based on risk, and this risk is especially given with age and, therefore, the most vulnerable people per age, the first, and those people who, for reasons of their profession, were also at greater risk. This has been a successful strategy, and successful thanks to thousands and thousands of people, and also thanks to those people who have been organizing this whole vaccination process. And you also said that you have rejected, therefore, the congratulations of institutions like WHO. The day we were presenting the plan of health to the President of the Generality, the WHO's own Director General cried it out – as have other rights, but concretely here in Catalonia –, and he has also recognized himself..., or he has explicitly acknowledged himself and I believe that implicitly on the part of all citizens, that he has seen a process or a procedure, therefore, that has a very important logistic repte, but that has been done effectively. Also..., seeking universality; we have been working, so, for example, with sensellars, with all entities to be able to immunize sensellars. We've been looking for mobility strategies, with buses, for those rights where vaccination taxes were lower and, therefore, not only have fixed points, but also all these mobile points. We've somehow been trying to get the highest percentage of vaccination. And, as I was saying, he has rejected awards, awards and recognitions. And explicit and implicit, and some implicit, like that of the National Police, like that of the National Police, that September of the year 21, the day of the National Police was covered by a letter..., one of the people who today is, to my mind, unjustifiably, therefore, assigned was covered by a letter that said so..., or, rather, a plate that said so: "The Chief of the Catalan Police, in recognition of his collaboration with this chiefship, in the management of the Covid-19. I mean, the National Police itself recognizes... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Ostres! Recognise... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.47.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Ask the Government about the strengthening of Catalan language in the knowledge system]] [[310-00303/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the strengthening of the Catalan language to the system of knowledge. The question is posed by Mrs Judith Toronjo, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.48.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillor Geis. We are fully aware that we live in complex times, and I would say that we are also convulsed by what it does to our language. This homogenizing and deria Spanish State pulse is more alive than ever, and it is not a reflex and an obvious proof of the education system, which is under discussion. Because those who don't want us to live fully in català don't stop and never stop their devices, and now they're also looking for other areas, other objects, such as universities and research centers. Despite the fact that they will find themselves in the front, without doubt, a strong system, a cohesive system, and also a government that bets, that take their commitment in defense for the language to higher education, but also in the scientific dissemination or in the transfer of knowledge. In this sense, if we look at the context and analyze the data made easier for universities in the department, we see how the university community in our country has suffered some instances of violations of the linguistic rights, the same way that whenever there has been a change in the teaching language of an assignment, the language that has always been damaged has always been català, and from a wide range, etc., we could ask other examples, other questions, other data, but I would like to highlight how the Catalan language is mostly used on the part of university degrees, and how still there is a good margin and better for what it does to masters and doctorates. It is obvious, therefore, that this issue is no less, counsel, and that you need to put thread to the needle to continue guaranteeing the linguistic rights of all. The Catalan is defense speaking it, sense of doubt, but it is also defense with ambitious and determined actions, as we saw last week in the presentation of the Catalan reinforcement plan, when we again proved that the system is a granite block in defense of the language. Deia Yasnaya Aguilar, the linguist, who has no language is saved alone from silence, because the languages are always saved in community. And, in fact, we would not understand it any other way than to bring forward these measures for the future of the country, for the future of language, for the knowledge of young people, requires the consent of our university community as a key to success. For all this, counsel, we would like today, despite knowing that it is a very extensive plan, to detail some of the most important measures of this plan of strength of the català. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.49.0	To answer, has the word Gemma Geis Constellera, Research and University Constellera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.50.0	Good morning, president, president, councillors, deputies, deputies. So, effectively, at the beginning of the legislature we marked the català as the scientific language of the country to the university research system and, therefore, we approved an ambitious plan to strengthen the Catalan language, of more than sixty pages, in the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia and in the Committee on Linguistic Policy. The objectives are basically to make the use of català as its own language and normal use to the activities of Catalan universities; to guarantee the linguistic rights of the entire university and research community; to improve the offer of teaching in català with the aim of reaching a eighty_per_cent of assignments in català by 2025– so students must be able to develop the degrees in català and there must also be more training in mastering in català– ; to increase the use of català in search and to promote the transfer and scientific dissemination in català; to universalize the linguistic and cultural blending of the university community and to extend it also to the research centres. To strengthen also the relations between the university and research community and the Catalan speaking territories. Of the concrete measures in this area, which are extensive, I would point out that for the first time all public and private universities without work will collect in a unified and precise way the data of linguistic uses in order to improve the indicators; we protocols for the management of incidences and the improvement of the information on the teaching language; the teachers will have to certify the level C of catalá, with some exceptions in case of temporality, and do so by an official way; we have created a new program of interaction of students Joan Fuster in the Catalan speaking territories to the Xarxa Vives d'Universitats, which will be installed in operation the second semester of the 2022-2023 course, with a duration of five months of scholarship; and he has also created the catalization of the production of a new audiovisual. What we want is for the català to be recognized as a teaching language, a research language, a scientific language and a language to be able to make an academic career, and that is to recognize the use of the català. And all this we have done with rigour, with serenity and with consensus, and with an ample look, because it is possible – because the DNA of Catalan universities has this internationalization – to continue to strengthen the presence of Catalan universities and the system of world knowledge with the defense of Catalan language. Because català is a scientific language and it's a point of finding. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.51.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the lack of investment in infrastructure. [[Ask the Government about the lack of investment in infrastructure]] [[310-00304/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President Puignero, the heaviness that Catalonia suffers to form part of the Spanish State is visible from many ways. Recently we have experienced two episodes that are part of this patience, also in the form of political and judicial repression. For a band, what was the biggest case of mass espionage, with the Pegasus system, which gave place to "Catalangate", making it more obvious than ever that Spain, instead of being a state of law, what it does is to pull for the right; that Spain is a defective democracy that pursues ideas, precisely democratic ideas, peaceful and above all legitimate, such as independence and believing in a Catalonia state. For another band, we have experienced in our own right the persecution of a nuclear element of our nation: the Catalan language. The one who failed to win with manipulations and deceiving the company ended up imposing it through the courts on a toga basis. But don't be fooled, the school will be in Catalan now and always. Also, the hardships we live in Catalonia have been much further back in time. In the case of infrastructure they are structural hardships, because in a long way over time, for decades, they directly affect the lives of citizens, of all, they vote for those who vote. The road network, operated by Renfe and managed by Adif, as well as the road infrastructure dependent on the State accumulates hundreds of delays, lacks financing and investments and other problems, which simply do not have a good public transport service. In short, the State does not complicate with Catalonia. And that's a big issue, because Catalonia, like the diverse country, heterogeneous and with different territorial realities that it is, makes its connections a key tool for the vertebration of all communities and populations. It is not only about a question of mobility, but also about a question of territorial balance, of not penalizing those citizens who live far from the great cities. It is a right to have a network that allows you to go from end to end of the country, that continues to generate opportunities and progress. For all this, Vice-President, from Juntes we would like to know who is the infrastructure investment deficit on behalf of the state that is suffering from Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.53.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.54.0	Thank you, President. MP, look, the defect we're suffering is obviously endemic, structural. I think the citizens of Catalonia know that. And, therefore, we must look to the future to see how this is correct, at least while we are still in this State. You can't be second citizens in this Spanish state. Anyway, what I'm pretty clear about is how it doesn't have to be these investments in the next few years, huh? And we could do, for example, a rest of the black memories of infrastructure in Catalonia, because there are some symptoms. And I'll refer to three because I had to sort. Miri, for example, access... all that is rail access to Barcelona airport, huh? The T4 of Madrid and the T1 of Barcelona were projected at the same time, and their railway accesses..., 2009 were made the projects. Barajas is the end of 2011. We're at the Prat airport in 2022 and they're still telling us that maybe 2025 will be over. Therefore, an abysmal difference. The B-40. Listen fifteen miles in fifteen years, one mile per year. It's totally unacceptable, but it's the memory – the memory – of the blackest, say, infrastructure, the slowness of infrastructure, tea – surely many will know it, and maybe there's someone here –..., it's the variant of Vallirana, huh? Vallirana's variant ran the rate of two-hundred_metres per year. So, listen, this... sure as hell can't go on. And here are some who have a lot of responsibility. Finally, to speak also of trains, the unfolding of the R3, which is in these moments with works and which we congratulate that this is so, eh? The Parets tram - the Garriga is on the tram. This represents today a twenty-i-five percent of what was projected from this work, which dates back to, say, the first study in 2001. At this rate – at this rate – we'll get to Vic by 2100, huh? [[Rialles.]] I'm telling you, this is where Vic's mayor is. So let me tell you that the 2100 will arrive at this unfolding in your city. In any case, look, what's obvious is that a repositioning with the State of what infrastructure investments in Catalonia mean. The thirty-yes_per_cent we've known, this xifra, is inadmissible. If we compare it to what's inverted and running in other areas of the State, it's obviously... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the vice president and the vice president continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.55.0	Time's up. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of the right of students to exam in castle]] [[310-00297/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the guarantee of the right of pupils to exam in castle. The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.56.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... to ensure the distribution of UAP exams also in Spanish or will they deny this right as to schoolchildren? Because I remind you that, as you denied that right to students who were being examined for selectivity, the courts had to come and guarantee it. And we came, before the tests this year, to remind you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.57.0	To answer the word, Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.58.0	Well, good morning, President. Ultrathreat is a phenomenon that the step has to be blocked, because what they claim is destabilizing democratic societies, and it has to be done in all spaces. I will not contribute to donating the altar to your falsehoods and even less here in your parliament. What I'm worried about is the same thing that concerns all parents and mothers, and also all students, that is that the selection tests are developing as always, with the highest normality, putting the students at the center, because everyone will understand, in the same way that I do, that it's quite important for their professional future. Therefore, as always, we guarantee linguistic rights and, as always, we put students in the center. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.59.0	To answer the question, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.60.0	Madam Counsellor, we are very used to separatism not respecting anything or respecting that in Catalonia we have two languages, that the freedom to use the two languages, especially the common one, is a right that cannot be trampled on. But you neither respect rights nor respect freedoms. They do not understand that university access tests are very important for students, who play very much: access to a career and the choice of a university. And it is logical that some prefer to do it in Catalan, and others, in Spanish, without having to ask expressly. But you have become accustomed to not respecting the rights of Catalans and are forcing us to go to the courts to seek amparo. But when the courts act and give judgment, you are so totalitarian that you do not respect it and do not comply with it. And the car was clear: he felt that citizens' right to choose the language of their choice should prevail, how it relates to public authorities and administration, and not the other way around. He also stated that students need not publicly express their language choice in such tests. And in those we are, seven days away from selectivity and you unanswered. Will they continue to trample on the right to Spanish exams without having to ask on equal terms with Catalan? From VOX, we remind you. Here and now. And we warn you that we will continue to fight for this right, in university with students, in Parliament, in the courts. And when we rule, so will we. Likewise, we will promote a single test of equal selectivity throughout Spain, because the bachelor's degree is a national title with the same seal and the tests have to be equal throughout Spain for all Spanish students, also for Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.61.0	To reply, the Research and University Advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.62.0	Well, like, more than a question, like always, is a threat, I ask them to leave the PAU in pain. Let them leave the PAU in pau. Let them leave the PAU in pau. Stop lying. I already know that you do the interpretations of the courts of justice because you have your colleagues there. And, therefore, listen, this councillor and the consulting team will act with conviction. Because what you propose for Catalonia is a prison where women's rights are violated, where you make racist comments. And I'm sure this arrest isn't what I want for my children. And, therefore, I will act with all conviction and with all firmness in the defense of linguistic rights and in the defense of the good organization of the PAU. And I repeat it again: leave the PAU in pau. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.63.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the impulse to women's sport. [[Ask the Government about the impulse to women's sport]] [[310-00288/13]] The question is put by Mrs Marta Vilalta on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, Councilwoman Vilagra. Despite the silence and the invisibility, the fact is that women have been practicing for a long time and we also compete, both at the level of the elite as we do for pleasure or for greeting. And despite all the interbanks and glass bras in this environment, we are also managing to occupy the space that surrounds us in the spheres of clubs, federations, which have always been strongly masculinized. We have examples of successful athletes such as the mountain biker Ramona Gabriel, the footballer Alexia Putellas, the driver Laia Sanz, also the nedadora Mireia Belmonte, the athlete María Vicente or the basketball player Laia Palau. And I could go on. Examples, but above all– above all– referents. Referees for the own generations of Catalan sportsmen who see that yes, that everything is possible. For this reason, from the institutions we have to provide tools, empowerment and support to the athletes in action and also those who will come from here in a while. Because women's sport, you know, is a story of struggle, but it's also a story of demand, of recognition, and that means we have to go with facts. Now it's up to us, therefore, to give more visualisation and certainly even more prestige to women's sport and all that the practice, all the sportsmen, continue in the category that follows, practice the sport that they practice, from the base, important, to the elite. And we must ensure, therefore, that all people can enjoy themselves without rape, without stereotypes or imposed roles. In fact, sports practice has to be above all a space of guarantee of rights and equality of opportunity for everyone and this requires a determined bet in visibility, we already said, but also in resources and tools. From the Republican Left, we are determined to put an end to the historical lack of support for women's sport, to the lack of support for women's sport, to the fact that they have suffered for many years and to discrimination, such as the wage gap also in this area, the segregation between sports, the difficulty of conciliation with all sportsmen, as well as the lack of references, which, fortunately, we are changing, or the sexuality of sportsmen, as well as the infra-representation in the direct organs or in the communication media, among many others. He will advise, as you say, as the president says, in fact, as the joint government says, this is the women's sports legislature. And, in this sense, we ask him about the steps that are already being taken and being taken by the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.65.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.66.0	Thank you, President, Member of Parliament. Well, as Anna Caula always explains, our general secretary of sport, women have been practicing in the elite for a long time, but now we're at a sweet moment, at a time when it's a turning point. You were talking to me about the laies. From Laia Palau, from Uni Girona's basketball, which in fact after thirty titles, for the moment, abandons the elite sport, but does not abandon the female sport and sure that it will continue to help us, or from Laia Sanz, which has opened up in a very masculinized sport and, in this sense, with a few successful clappers. But this week we also wanted to live the revolt, the female cycling turn, with exit and arrival at Sant Cugat. Or the female Barça did the state triplet. Or the recognition, as you said, of sportsmen like Alexia Putellas or Aitana Bonmatí. But I also like to highlight the European Hockey Club Palau or the Olympic medal of Queralt Castellet. They are examples for the children and children of this country. The department's goal is that more people do base sports, as you said. Actually, we're doing it with Salutation with the sports reception in the CAPs of this country, but we also want more federations, more people, in this case women, on the stand. We've made a lot of progress. In the last two years, a 20 per cent increase in federal claims has been made, and we are now reaching 163,000 federations. But we're twenty-i-set_per_cent, so we're still on the road. More visualization, more prestige, obviously, more resources. And here we talk about sponsorship, private and public. And today I like to explain, I like to say that we publish, just today, the four bases of subsidy, of help, on which are quadruple the money destined for women's sport. Because it is an absolute priority for this government, but I also like to recognize the work of federations and clubs to have more sportsmen, more teams, more technical, more directives, more arbiters. And I also like to set an example: Urgell's own INEFC, mountain sports, women's direction and more than fifty per cent of the materials, women. We'll keep the target, and we'll get it. Therefore, a government focused on women's sport. We're starting to get results. The women of this sports country have done their dues, and now we are, of course, left with Parliament and the Government, to accompany them and we will do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.67.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in the plenary on the procedures for revoking concessions to hydroelectric power stations. [[Ask the Government about the procedures for revoking the concessions of hydroelectric power stations]] [[310-00299/13]] The question is posed by Mr Eugeni Villalbí, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.68.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Since the creation of the Department of Climate Action, which you lead, you have been working to reverse years of inaction, both in one band, with the deployment of fiscal and legislative measures that allow us to face the climate change, as well as with the sophistication that we have been living in the field of renewable energies, a key element for the energy transition of our country. In fact, we have a lot of work to do, but the data confirm the good way forward: from June of the year to now the projects that have been put out in renewable energies have gone from sixty to 1,200 megawatts of power – in public information – and we have closed the first quarter of 2022 with more than 25,500 self-consumption installations, thus doubling the number of self-consumption installations in Catalonia in so many new_months. Solar and wind energy are key, but in order to meet the targets set in 2030 and 2050 we need to have other energy sources. And here hydropower plays a key role, an important role, because it represents between fifty and seventy per cent of the country's renewable energy and because it is between eight and thirty per cent of total electricity production in Catalonia; an energy that has a strategic weight for being manageable and storageable, thus helping to compensate for the system at low production points and to fix lower energy prices. To our country this energy comes from the more than 230 hydroelectric power stations that we have at our disposal to the internal shells; an energy that we want to respect with the environment, to the service of a green economy and to the hands of the citizens. That is why we have always said that we do not understand the energy transition as a simple change of fossil fuels to renewable, but we have always believed that it is a lever for a model change, a model change involved, democratic, distributed and denuclearized. That is why Parliament has voted on different occasions that the management of these hydroelectric power stations remains public, is at the hands of the citizenry and we incorporate them into the public energy that the government is driving. Counselor, a few days ago we saw the announcement of the recovery of the first three hydroelectric power stations: Sant Quirze de Besora, Ripoll and Bescanó. They can give us..., we'd like you to give us more details on the public energy step of these first three centrals, so you can explain to us the next steps the government has planned. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.69.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, so, actually, huh? , this department and the government, extremely decided in green transformation and, obviously, also in energy sovereignty. We have already done so, we have started with these first three shippers, in order to revoke these concessions from hydroelectric power stations. You called them: Sant Quirze de Besora, Ripoll and also Bescanó, who will already form part of this public energy and will therefore become public management. One brush from each of them. The first, that of Sant Quirze de Besora, in this case Can Trinxet, of the hand of the gathering, obviously, what we have already done is to start communicating, already, through the agency, of the ACA, of the Catalan Agency of the Water, therefore, that we had already finished the deadline; in fact, it ends on July 30, 24, and we have already started the dispatch procedure. The second, the Cubia, in Ripoll, is an extremely different case. In this case, the concession was held up for seventy-five years and, obviously, through documents, so we have come to believe that this happened, in this case, the year 1946; you can imagine, therefore, that this has already expired, and, therefore, we have started the terms to act. And the third, that of Vilanna, to Bescanó ; in this case, therefore, here we have started an expedient of extinction, because, among other cases, there is a repeated incompliment of the conditions basically of the cabal, in this case after eight notices, say, also, of the Catalan Agency of the Water to this concession. But we're not here, obviously; here we're talking about three, we've started, but in any case, the path, obviously, is long. I want to remind you, I also did it in your parliamentary office, that we will review all, extremely, all, the expedients of the hydroelectric concessions of the internal shells. You were talking about more than two-cents; imagine if we have work ahead of us, but decided, obviously, to do it. That means we're going to look deeply, extremely deeply into all this documentation, history, a lot of it, basically from all these concessioned expedients, to see or to find three things, huh? : first, therefore, basically vigor, important, eh? , because here there are many anomalies; a second, also important, is the compliment of the complete environment, also very important, or a third, that can be any irregularity. In short, to rule..., for us to rule is nothing more than to transform and do things..., to try and make things happen, eh? I, for the time being, so, they're passing by. And in this sense, therefore, make it clear that economic resources must always be placed in the service of collectivity. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.71.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the service of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to the gironine comarques. [[Ask the government about the service of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to the gironine comarques]] [[310-00300/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jaume Butinyà of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. The population's sustained increase in the last few years in Catalonia has meant that the number of services requested from the Emergence and Security Unit is significantly increased. As a result, the department has seen how they were called upon, by security officials, mayors and mayors, more agents and material resources to ensure adequate and sufficient attention to the citizenry. Our parliamentary group considers it essential to have a comprehensive and effective model of security throughout the territory, a police model of proximity that will ensure the exercise of the rights and freedoms of people. In this sense, in November, you, councillor, announced the agreement with the Spanish Government to increase the number of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra to 22,000. Recently, and for the first time in seven years, we were assigned to police areas outside the Barcelona area. We also know that the month of last February he paid a visit to the construction works of the new commissioner of Mossos d'Esquadra in Jonquera, commissioner who gives direct service to thirteen municipalities of the Alt Empordà, a necessary police equipment in a strategic point. For all this, Counselor, our parliamentary group wants to ask you how many agents of this later promotion have gone to the different police regions and with five criteria; how many agents of the future promotions of Mosso d'Esquadra are planned to go to the police region of Girona, and finally, what better and new investments are planned to make short term to the police region of Girona as well? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.73.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.74.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, when we arrived a year ago, the new team to the council had two objectives that were necessary: one, to raise the ground, to raise the ground of the number of moves that we could contract, and therefore the agreement of the Board of Security of Catalonia, 22,000, and also the early retirement, that early retirement allowed us to rejoin the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. But this is big figures, and then this has to be done. This has a purpose, this has an object, which has a word, which is said to be close; to be at the side of the people, at the side of the veins and the veins, in collaboration with the assemblies, in collaboration with the local police. And, indeed, this has materialized in Girona's comarques, which, as I said, therefore, did many years that had not been incorporated into us agents and had not even been lost as a result of the passage of years, retirements, etc., and has materialized with the incorporation of 134 new agents. That's about a dozen more agents in the gironine comarques. I have had the opportunity to talk to a few mayors – some are here – about the need for this. And what it's all about is that these great figures, that the policies that are fanciful, are concrete in the reality of people's lives, right? And that there are more agents in Banyoles, which is a 36_per_cent, or thirty-five us in Girona, which is an 18_per_cent more, or said to Salt, helps improve the concrete lives of citizens. Also bet to equip us with mitjans, right? And in this sense, therefore, eighty-five vehicles are coming to us; eighty-five vehicles have arrived to us from the different ABPs of Girona's comarques to do more work, to be able to serve the city better and to be able to coordinate better. And also a measure, which you commented, that is this strategic commissioner of Jonquera, with a reversal of 3_million euros. But there is a measure that may pass more unnoticed but that is more decisive, and it is: the traffic sectors that I was planning to pull back– is to say, delete them –, keep them; in concrete terms, that of Olot and that of Sant Feliu de Guixols, who do an essential job. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.75.0	All right. [[Ask the Government about economic transition policies]] [[310-00301/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on policies of economic transition. The question is put by Mr Ernest Maragall on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.76.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Jordan, thank you also for your determination, as you have just shown us, now in the field of the ecological transition, on the subject of tourism. Let's start with a clear statement: tourism is a phenomenon of very high social and economic significance; a phenomenon of so positive and spectacular evolution, that now what it takes is to regulate it to protect it from the excesses that it ends up generating. It is an indisputable case of success, accompanied, yes, of obvious negative externalities, that the veins and veins live very often in direct and first person: massification, wear of public space, negative side effects on housing and coexistence in certain barrels. In this environment, the role of the crevices that opt for the port of Barcelona or other ports of the country as a point of departure, of arrival or transit, in taking the relay and effectively ask attention and specific regulation, both for that it does to the massification of the public space clean as much especially for the affectation in the field of contamination and the obvious contradiction with the policies directed to combat the climate change. We have reached a critical point in the necessary transformation of the tourist model, of a tourist model today obsolete and counter-productive. And that's why we have to take action, right? And I think there's a multiple, urgent response to donating, huh? There is full awareness of the current excess in name, size and capacity of the Creuers and also for the name of passengers that every year disembark to our country – in Barcelona, but not only. Conclusion: we have to put on the table this new model; a tourism to live in the city, not to consume it. A city isn't just an object-scenario without measure, it can't be. The city is a living subject that demands respect, demands respect, and demands a use provided to the capacity of the public and private space that must gather tourism. We need to take action, already; we need to govern tourism from the bottom up and the positive complicity with the sector, in favor of the city and its own tourism. We want to ensure in the medium and long term the immense economic and social significance of tourism. This is done by planning and regulating the transformation of this model. In Barcelona, today, the best way to do this is to follow initiatives with which you set up, with criteria of environmental justice, as with the recent initiative that you announced for the Government of the Generality... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.77.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.78.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr Maragall. Actually, yeah, huh? You have clearly said that one of the problems – one of the problems – that the city of Barcelona has is precisely environmental quality. And, precisely, the quality of the area is one of the things, one of the factors that most worries the barcelons and barcelons; it also worries and obviously occupies the department and the government of the country. In fact, when we talk about the quality of the air we do not talk about abstract matter; we talk, if it allows me, in short, to improve the quality of life of our citizens and citizens; we talk, in short, also, to make our cities and our towns, obviously, more habitable. And since the area does not understand borders, it is also obvious that Barcelona cannot be out of touch, obviously, with the rest of the country. For this reason, at the top of the quality of the area that we were going to celebrate last March, there we agreed, therefore, to deploy the low-emission zones in those cities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants before the end of 2025. But, beyond that, one point respects the crucible, which is another of the problems, one of the derivatives, also, of the quality of the area, the massiveity of the crucibles at the port of the city. I am convinced that you will agree with me – in fact you have said this in one way or another – that we have to act already, that there is not enough with cards, that there is not enough with proclamations and that we certainly already have masses studying in many of the Generality's cabinets. We need to act now. And that's why we are working decisively to make a tax that rules the emissions, in this case, of the creuers, of all the ports of the country – obviously, also that of the city of Barcelona – based on the law of climate change, which is the law that we learn and that has been sufficiently approved in this Parliament. We have tools, we are working, and I am convinced that we can add even more actors and that we can add even more administrations. And, in this sense, the announcement that this councillor, the one I have the honour to encapsulate, together with the Department of Economics, we are already designing a tax, a tax on creuers, which will be applied progressively, let me just say so, also according to the levels of contamination generated from the year obviously 2023, of the year you see. We don't want to be left alone with a tax that sets the premise of the one who pollutes the most paid – that too, huh? –; we want to go further and we want to transform the model of activities of great ships. We want to establish shields, we want to establish topalls, if I may, to regulate this activity. In short, what we want is to improve the quality of the air, because that means to improve the quality of life of our citizens and, obviously, also preserve biodiversity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.79.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the investment activity of the Department of Digital Policies and Territories. [[Ask the Government about the investment activity of the Department of Digital Policies and Territories]] [[310-00298/13]] The question is posed by Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.80.0	Mr. Counselor Puigneró, have they ever planned to leave behind the politics of victimism and confrontation in order to make a responsible and realistic policy in Catalonia's relations with the rest of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.81.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.82.0	Thank you, President. We work for the citizens of Catalonia from the government department and from the government council. We're working to solve his problems and, obviously, we're also working to solve the biggest problem we think Catalonia has, which is a State that doesn't represent him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.83.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.84.0	Well, counselor, as we hoped, cophoism; as we hoped, lack of assumption of reality, lack of assumption of own responsibilities. And I have to say a few things to you: from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens we find a speech, a more rational public debate, a more data-based public debate, a public debate based on a minimally objective and pragmatic approach to what is the reality of our community. I say this because many days ago, a few days ago, you have set aside a wish, a campaign, let's say, of victimism and cophosm, one more time, to try to present all the problems of our community as the responsibility of the Government of Spain. And I have some things to say to him. In this campaign, you forget disasters, real disasters, like that of the L9, line 9 of the Barcelona metro, which is your responsibility, Mr. Counsellor, I remember. His other responsibilities, such as the Segarra-Garrigues channel, which is also his responsibilities, Mr. Counsellor, I remember. His other responsibilities in the Transversal Eix, for example, a follow-up of public works that you have starred in with a pretty loose result. And from this point of view, I'm telling you that we're asking you for a little responsibility, a little responsibility and a rational debate in the joint public administration. We, from Ciutadans, are the first ones we demand, we ask for a greater compliment on the assumptions of all the public administrations, not only of the General Administration of the State, also of the community, of our community. But in any case, it's obvious that you play the only thing you play is the self-fulfilling prophecy. In working accounts for the citizen of Catalonia, you are not planted if it is possible that a good part of the investment that the State has to make in Catalonia stay or 'go in horror because of its irresponsibility and its frivolity. What happened to the 1,700_million euros assumed or to be assumed by the central government for the expansion of the Prat airport? That you, with your parliamentary partners, sent him in horror. Just like other investments that could have arrived in Catalonia, like now the investments derived from a joint candidacy with Aragó, a joint candidacy for the Winter Olympics. Gentlemen of the Government, leave the cophosm, leave the self-completion, leave the confrontation and pose... (The President removes the microphone's use at the clock and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.85.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.86.0	Yes, Mr. Martin Blanco, said William Edwards Deming, an American industrialist who helped Japan out..., after World War II, to industrialize, said that without data, we are just another person with an opinion. Their opinions are very respectable, but it is true that we must always go to the data and go there rigorously, all folded. I think that from this perspective, you and your group don't know if they would feel more comfortable presenting themselves, say, as parliamentarians or in lists to other communities, in Murcia, in Madrid, because they could make this speech of non-defense of what are obviously, therefore, investments for Catalonia. I'm sure they'd feel more comfortable, because I never see them in their group in Madrid making a single attempt to defend key infrastructure for Catalonia, and they have a few MPs to do it. And they feel very comfortable and they see that Catalonia suffers from a triple disability, huh? He's been suffering from a fiscal deficit for many years. It also suffers from a presupposition deficit that is incomplete any year before the Statute, which says that it should be equivalent to the reversal that is made in Catalonia, in this case, therefore, to the GDP it generates. And after a third deficiency that is the one of non-execution, the one of non-execution, that is the lowest and is at the bottom of the state. And you don't do anything. You are here to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, in a matter that is not the independence of Catalonia, that is precisely the infrastructures, that are obviously the services of the Generality. They're doing a little recap. Exactly you, we defend Catalonia when you have the opportunity? And, look, if all that I've explained to him... – and I'm sure he won't agree with it, and it's a term that you don't like, which is the term "Spain steals from us," if that's not a "Spain in clothes," it's a lot assembled. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.87.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on complaints against a doctor from the Department of Interior for alleged sexual abuse of agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra body. [[Ask the government about the charges against a Home Department doctor for alleged sexual abuse of Squad Coast agents.]] [[310-00308/13]] The question is raised, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, by Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.88.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr. Elena, just a week ago, the press reported three women, agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, against a doctor assigned to the Department of the Interior for sexual abuse. The first of the complaints took place in early 2020, but this doctor has continued to visit until just a few weeks ago. We'd like to know why.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.89.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.90.0	Well, as I've explained before, in this way we've had knowledge of these facts– in this case, to the department where I've been advising since June of the previous year– we've started a whole series of transactions, initially giving legal defense to people, to victims, because, effectively, until that time they didn't have it, and giving them the harvest and, at the same time, also starting the managed transactions– which I'll explain later – so that I can end up in this second dispatch, which has allowed me to quit working in the department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.91.0	To put it another way, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.92.0	Yes, thank you. Look, counselor, there are already five complaints of sexual abuse against this doctor. You say that you have taken a number of measures, I tell you that they are insufficient. In fact, the Secretary General himself, Oriol Amorós, acknowledged the other day that he could not ensure that during all this time the doctor had followed in his job he had not abused more women. This seems very serious to me. My hair's getting sharp, Mr. Counselor. Not only for what the agents say, but also for how the department has treated them. These women have felt lonely, abandoned and, in some cases, also questioned. The department's own head of psychology came to ask one of the victims for understanding, because he was a partner of his. It is seen that that of "sister, I do believe you only works when the scandal does not splash you, if not, then it is better to shut up and cover. You say you have given them legal assistance; it would only be missing, it is your obligation as employees of the Administration. Look, in March 2020, the first complaint comes. It's okay, the doctor keeps visiting. In June 2021 you are appointed councillor. Mr Oriol Amorós, Secretary of the Interior, acknowledges that on that date he is already aware of the facts. Nothing happened, the doctor kept visiting. A few months later, the department was charged with asking this doctor for a prison sentence of two and a half years for the crime of sexual abuse. Nothing happened, the doctor kept visiting. Can you explain to me, Mr. Elena, how can it be that you see signs of crime as asking for two and a half years' imprisonment, imprisonment for this doctor, and yet still in your job visiting women? Is this how you protect women? Sounds like a waste of time to me. Look, counselor, fighting harassment or sexual abuse does not consist in writing a protocol and then giving a press conference or creating a Women's Council to become superfeminists. No, no, What you had to do was protect those workers, but you have left them and the rest of the women who could have ended up in that consultation helpless. And, look, if Mr. Amoros knew it and did nothing, now it's up to you to act by ceasing it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.93.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.94.0	Well, before that, I wanted to refer to the conviction of these facts. I also want to take advantage of – because I have done so personally – to thank some of the victims for their courage, courage, strength and determination to denounce. And you go so far that this counselor will never store any of these cases, but pursue them until they never produce again. There's no doubt about it. The first one we did when we met this fact, when we arrived, was, in the first place, giving legal aid. Yeah, 'cause they didn't have her. Once we had information about the events, the second we did it was to open an expedient. I, in this dispatch, guarantee and preserve that you are more likely to attend that consultation. When we had knowledge of the second case, we opened another dispatcher and was expelled, suspected of occupation and of being this person. And, yes, there have been five cases, among other things, because another measure of what we adopted was to open an anonymous profit to ensure that all the people who had not been victims could report it. And thanks to this bust, just some of the victims have been able to do it. And it's true that there have been complaints about psychological follow-up. And what we did when this happened was two things. One, to offer, if it has been accepted, psychological advice external to victims, because we have to be at their side absolutely always. And, second, to modify all those things that are still necessary, that have been realized that they have not worked in this whole process, and to do so with the hand of the union representatives in the brand of the Consell de la Policia. I have no doubt that we will be at your side absolutely always. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.95.0	Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the valuation of the security balance and police activity 2021 of the Mosso d'Esquadra]] [[317-00175/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.96.0	Thank you, President. How do you rate the security and police activity balance 2021 presented by the Mossos d'Esquadra?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.98.0	Thank you, President. So, honourable Member, thanking all the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra body for their task and putting in place the structural measures that in this past year we have brought to the end of the government of which it is, therefore, the expansion until twenty-two thousand effect of the maximum number of agents granted to the Security Board; the increase of the material resources and the fact, therefore, that each year we are entering a new promotion of more than eight hundred agents to rejoin the body, among other measures, also, to have a prepared, as effective as possible. And therefore, this also requires agents who can work in the best possible working conditions, the agreements that have recently been made to lower retirement age and equate it to other police bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.99.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.100.0	Thank you, President. I asked you about the security balance 2021 presented by the Mossos d'Esquadra. I guess he hasn't read it in depth because the answer has been quite disappointing, he has repeated what he always says. I'm going to refresh you some data that is shocking. By 2021, criminal offences had increased by 10.87 per cent in Catalonia, and in the first three months of 2022 it had risen to twenty-nine per cent. Ninety crimes per thousand inhabitants in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, which is a chilling fact. Forty-eight percent of the illegal occupations throughout Spain are concentrated in Catalonia. No region, community, Länder in Europe has similar data. Catalonia is supposed to be a modern Western society, but this data puts us directly on the edge and brings a severe problem of citizen insecurity. Why does this happen in Catalonia when we have excellent professionals? It is clear that there is a problem of management, of mismanagement in this case, but there is also a fundamental political problem, the development during the last decade of an unfortunate coincidence of three phenomena: politicians making constant pedagogy of disobedience to the law; politicians making, even, directly apologizing for the crime, and a contempt on their part and stigmatization of law enforcement officials. From these three ideas, a rhetoric very present in this Parliament is born that the criminal is a victim of the system, the victim becomes a fascist suspect, and the police are directly by definition. It is not a hyperbole that pulls me out of my sleeve, so they are constantly treated here, especially at the CUP bench, and your government, Mr. Aragonès, at the hand of Mr. Elena, silently or directly laughing at them in the face of these constant insults. This can't go on like this. It is urgent to have the means and prestige of our police officers as well. It is they who guarantee our freedom and our security, because without security, there is no freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.102.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, the year 2021, in certain types of crime, there was an increase in the number of recorded crimes compared to 2020. Among other things, because the activity of the whole society paralyzed by 2020, and also paralyzed the activity of that extreme minority of society, those people who are engaged in criminal activity. The increase in internal mobility in the country has also led to a recovery of some levels – which we do not want to get there – of criminal activity, which we are, therefore, clearly decided to be able to reverse. Before I referred to personal media and material media. For you, that's questions that don't matter. Then, in his reply, he pointed out that these were the measures we had to take. So yes, we will continue to take steps to strengthen the personal media, so the number of agents of the Squad Coast, and the material media of those we count. What we will not do with the police is do « operations Catalonia, as you led the Interior Ministry and the Spanish Government to try to influence electoral results. [[applause]] and attack with lies the political opposition. That's what we won't do; the police to defend the citizens' rights, not to manipulate them and attack them as you have done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.103.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about who the rep outside Catalonia]] [[317-00171/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.104.0	Mr President, who is receiving you outside Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.106.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. So look, we are presenting an intense institutional agenda, and for the first time we have had a visit to Catalonia by the President of the European Commission, in which I have had the opportunity to present to you precisely the most relevant projects that we have had since Catalonia in relation to the recovery and resilience mechanism. So, if your concern is that, then it's not that concerned. We are increasing the international relationship and recovering it. And in fact, even so, images's, even in my recent visit to the European Parliament came to me some invited students for Ciutadans who asked me to take a picture of myself. And so, imagine, it generates interest even in what you wouldn't like. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.107.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.108.0	Mr President, the President of the European Commission was coming to an event at the Cercle d'Economia, don't point that at all. Look, you declared that you were going to Brussels to return Catalonia to the European institutions, and for that you met..., really the meeting that you rang was with Mr Puigdemont, fugitive from justice. And so, everything; to meet with a fugitive you call "restitute Catalonia in the European institutions, blackmail you call "dialogue, the decadence of Catalonia you call "model d'éxit and do so with everything. All they do is fake. When Pujol had at least one appearance of loyalty, the president of the Generalitat received with honors of state thanks to the good offices of Spanish diplomacy, and now in Catalonia we have moved from good offices to the turbulent handling of Puigdemont with Putin. And so you are sinking the image of Catalonia in the world. Before his rupturist obsession drowned everything, the president of the Generalitat, as president of an important autonomous community such as the Catalan one, was received all over the world. Now you are the successor of an incapacitated convict like Torra, who has already highlighted us in Europe with his writings qualified as racist and xenophobic by the main European parties. And it also happens to Mr Puigdemont, fugitive from justice, who continues to play president to the detriment of you and with money of unknown origin. And you, like them, do not receive anyone, are stinking in the democracies of our environment and that objectively greatly harms the material interests of Catalonia, our business, our economy, our cultural place in the world, and makes other autonomous communities, in addition, acquire the importance that we gradually lose. Yesterday, in an interview with TV3, the president of the Spanish Olympic Committee said that the International Olympic Committee follows closely the vicissitudes of our possible candidacy for the Olympic Winter Games, and that from the outside they do not understand anything that is happening here. Of course, here Catalans do understand what's going on. You are throwing the prestige of Catalonia at the edge in Spain and in the world, only to continue living from the mummium.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.110.0	Thank you very much, President. First, I think we have to take care of the words, and you don't get used to doing it. He said: "You are with impestates. If I now say that about you in the answer we'd be set up here by a cider that, go on, would fill the headlines of state communication media, that they're very close to them and that they make them the garage. I'm not going in there. I am surprised that you are concerned about the external action of the Government of Catalonia, you who have dedicated yourselves to saying that this is all very small. That is to say, in fact, what you have been basically doing, disapproving the opportunities to defend the issues that, according to you, really interest people. Of the questions that, according to you, really interest the people, little does ask me, in this session of control, because I would see the answer, that is that the government does not care, the government has it as a priority, and the government works to have all the tools to be able to answer it, that they are the tools of a state. So, don't worry, we'll continue to do the outside action, keep this conversation going, we'll expand it even further. Now yes, I also say one thing, we will do it with respect for all the people of Catalonia, with respect also for all the representatives of the Government of Catalonia, especially for President Puigdemont, who at these times, if he cannot be in Catalonia, is because of the repression of the State. And that's why, when I go to Brussels, I'm meeting him, too, and I'm meeting the times you need. With whom I will not meet, it is with their MEPs, who use this platform to discredit Catalonia, to discredit the Catalan institutions, and this does not help people or the good dialogue with the European institutions or help people to capture investments. Therefore, you, who are a dislocation agency, are a disengagement agency from Catalonia with the European institutions... We all do the opposite: connect more, be more present than ever and defend Catalonia's interests to Europe and to everything else. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.111.0	He asked the President of the General Council for an oral reply on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reasons for which he does not want to negotiate the decree of measures to combat the social crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine]] [[317-00169/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, after four_months of Putin's invasion of Ukraine, this Parliament was given a decree to deal with the resulting social crisis. And, unfortunately, I have to say, because it is no surprise: what we see is a small plan, which up until later, which has not been negotiated and which, moreover, will not really serve to cope with this crisis, because what the Catalan families are patenting has a name, which is called inflation, and this means that they have difficulty moving, to move around to work or study, means that the shopping cyst is more expensive every day and means that the light and sub-administrations are eating under them. To combat it, we proposed three measures that are very concrete. I say again: very concrete. And you've told us no. We are talking about lowering the price of public transport, an energy gap for vulnerable families and also updating the guaranteed income of citizens. And again, you said no. Surely you will now tell me that the central government has to do more, and I say yes, and that whenever you claim it more to the central government we are there. But that can't be an excuse to keep our arms down. And if not, let's look at Valencia, which is two months ago – two months ago – approved a plan for 1,000 million euros. Therefore, President, the question is very concrete: why do you not want to negotiate this decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.114.0	Thank you very much, President. We were in contact with different parliamentary groups just before the adoption of the decree, even before the adoption of the decree to the Government, because we knew first of all the content of this decree, and then obviously to speak to it, because this decree establishes, among others, agility of everything that is the implementation of renewable energy in Catalonia, the adaptation in the protection of minors, also, of certain particularly urgent and absolutely necessary standards before the arrival of refugees from Ukraine, some of them from underage countries, may well have left them in the realm of society. The government will be worth what it has done, since it had not spent money on solvency aid, to collect part of it. We spent these help in a noranta_per_cent. So, good for them, but we can't get away with this, because we did the job last year and we had this opportunity. What we have claimed in the State is that in the same way that there was a covid foundation – that, by the way, the covid has not disappeared, because we held the worst of the charges in the form of contagious the first quarter of this year–, not only that the maintainer but also that there is a foundation because the assemblies and the Government of Catalonia can act in relation to the consequences of the war in Ukraine. But, despite the absence of this foundation, we've been doing things, and this very week there was a payment of 20_million euros to help workers affected by ERTO, precisely one of the workers' collections facing this surge of inflation with a higher precarious motxilla. This has been done by the government and, obviously, we will continue to work on this line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.115.0	To answer the question, has the parable the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.116.0	Yes, thank you, President. This decree is clearly insufficient, and what you have done has not continued to negotiate, has continued to inform. And also, if I may, see who's getting the most fucked up at the time of getting the supports, and I'm telling them that we won't be there, because we're talking about the suffering of Catalan families. You've had two meetings with the parties, no return and no negotiation, and a social dialogue that, if I may say so, is fake, as the same unions are denouncing. And I'm telling you, it's hard to hear. It's just that it's not understandable, because with the partners that you have, with your unwillingness to negotiate and your lack of ambition, I have the feeling that the legislature can make itself long enough. I'm telling you, right now we're in a "no vote on this late decree, because it's clearly insufficient. There's hours ahead. If in the place of making, therefore, a decree that is insufficient, you want to make a real Catalan social listening, you know where we are. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.118.0	Thank you very much, President. A social escutcheon without resources is a fake escutcheon. And we don't have resources because the state government hasn't enabled funds. The Government of the State committed itself to the Conference of Presidents of La Palma to assume all the expenses caused by the arrival of refugees from Ukraine to Catalonia, and has not paid any euro or one euro. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I believe that before we demand, what we need are resources, and these resources have not arrived. And, therefore, totally agree that it is a social shield? Absolutely okay. But without resources, this social listening is smoke, and people don't want to smoke, they want to do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.119.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to combat cases of infiltration and espionage of independence and movements of social struggle]] [[317-00176/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.120.0	Good morning, President. Ahir La Directa discovered the infiltration of a Spanish police officer to the main student union of the country and to the Popular Movement for the Habitatage of Barcelona. At the end of 2019, the false identity of Marc Hernàndez Pon was held back. With this false identity he infiltrated the SEPC, the Popular Couple Lina Ódena and the collection Resistam al Gòtic. Finally, the whole country could see it for TV3 participating in the press wheel of the Batec movement that promotes the payment slot to Renfe. This operation was set in motion at the same time that the Interior Ministry and the CNI gave orders to intervene with Pegasus on their phone, together with many others. So we can conclude that the infiltration operation is part of the same massive espionage operation. Who are the guarantees of non-repetition given to you by the Spanish Government, as you demanded? What measures do you think your government will take?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.122.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, so, look, I have to tell you that, unfortunately, the Government of the State has not put in any guarantee of non-repetition. For this reason, therefore, we continue to judge in a very negative way what has been the management of the Government of the State of the Iron of espionage of the "Catalangate", and, therefore, we will proceed with the actions that we have announced. And, therefore, in the proper days, for my part, will continue to see what is the presentation of a complaint before the courts of justice in order to reach the end, to know the responsible ones, and, therefore, to what it was published in press, of supposed secret documents, it is possible to declassify and we can prove, therefore, the weak argumentation of the arguments that were used to justify this particular espionage. Yesterday I was also able to have knowledge of the facts that you have denounced, and from here I want to express my solidarity with the political organizations that have seen violations of the right to its organizational sovereignty, and to an honest militancy, and a sincere militancy..., as I am convinced that the rest of the members of these organizations carry out their ideological position, which sometimes, in some respects, we do not share, but the right to political participation is also to defend it from interference, therefore, illegitimate, as happened in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.123.0	To answer the question, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.124.0	President, you said so. In the background, almost two months after the "Catalangate" is unveiled, it is still time for the Spanish President to mention it. And today we have on the table a new case of espionage. This leads us to think that something difficult fails in the calendar of the dialog and the rendezvous. Frankly, it's a farce, that the only one he's looking for is to block the country's independence agenda. We ask you, when are you planning to unlock this agenda and get the political initiative back? But your government also has to solve some issues related to espionage or infiltration. On what condition did this person occupy a public plaza of studying at the UB? How'd you rate it? You can work with Constellera Gemma Geis and the Department of Research and Universities. Another question, as at least on one occasion, the infiltration was identified by the Mossos, together with other activists for the right to housing in a denunciation. Everyone got a ticket, but he didn't. It is close to the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena to investigate this issue. Therefore, president, put his councils to investigate in this case, but above all, abandoning the mark of the false reunion and unlocking the independence agenda of the country. They're not complicit in this situation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.126.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, the departments are already putting an end to their actions in their areas of responsibility in order to obtain all this information that you say. What I can assure you is that this government does not have or have any complicity with this issue; it would just be missing. Therefore, it will have all the information. And as this government says, I can say the same for the University of Barcelona and its Rector. I'm not absolutely convinced. And the same for all the professionals who are, therefore, serving the Catalan institutions. Therefore, we will get the information, and there is no doubt, therefore, that, as it will be public, it will also have access to it. The rendezvous schedule is not ours. This is the proposal of the President of the Government of the State, which is later not concrete when there is an investment in infrastructures like it is, or as a result, so, already made the pardons, they think they have already solved everything. We will not fail to defend the right to self-determination and amnesty as a solution to the political conflict with the State before... in all areas where we can do so. We will do it in front of the Government of the State, we will do it together with the Catalan society, we will do it in this Parliament, always defending...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.127.0	Time's up, President. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether he wants to convert Catalonia into Saint-Denis, where multiculturalism has caused serious alterations in public odor]] [[317-00170/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to reply in full on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.128.0	Mr Aragonès, the incidents during the final of the Champions League in Saint-Denis have caused many of those who until yesterday denied the dangers of multiculturalism and the imposition of Islam to recognize the failure of integration policies. Are you thinking of turning our cities into Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.130.0	Thank you very much, President. The extreme right constantly tries to link the religion of some citizens with episodes of violence, the origin of some citizens with episodes of violence, the ideology of some citizens with episodes of violence. Therefore, for the dignity of this Parliament, I will not answer this Member. There's not enough to whiten the fascism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.131.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.132.0	That is the main problem that Catalans have, that their Government is becoming the main negator of this drama that breaks societies, breaks the principles of our nation, and leads us directly to the precipice. Because the thefts, the assaults and the aggressions, Mr Aragonès, are one of the many faces of this problem that we face every day in Catalonia. While forced marriages are multiplying in our region, with the unfortunate murder of two Terrassa neighbors in Pakistan, separatists, the PSC and In Comú Pomero vote against protecting women's freedom in this chamber for fear of facing the misfortunes of reality we suffer in our neighborhoods and villages. A few days ago, there were three anti-jihadist operations in Cornellà, Castelldefels and Vilanova. A few months ago, there were arrests of supporters of Pakistani jihadist groups. The police also dismantled a cell that provided logistical, economic and health coverage to fighters in Syria. Mr Aragonès, the security, freedom and prosperity of Catalans is compromised by this serious threat, a real and tangible threat, from Gerona to Tarragona. A cruel and harsh reality from robberies, rapes and forced marriages. An insurmountable threat to this day and insurmountable in the future. Mr Aragonès, I demand you to rectify, and I demand all parties present in this chamber to rectify. Don't give us reason if they don't want to. Use the euphemisms you prefer, but face one of the main problems that plague our region, or very soon, long before what you all expect, you will regret the consequences. And I'm not just talking about places already surrendered like Salt, I'm talking about our entire region. And don't forget, upon your men and your consciences will weigh the consequences that solace our fellow citizens. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on the justification of support for the stabilisation of the Government of the State]] [[317-00173/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.134.0	Very honorable president, president, members of the government, deputies and deputies... president, the Spanish government lies and incompletes. He's lying to all the Catalans, and he's inconclusive to Catalonia. He does it premeditatedly, as Mr. Trias Fargas warned almost forty years ago. And it does it systematically, governments that governments – the People's Party, the Socialist Party or the Socialist Party with Podemos. The Spanish government harms Catalans, to all Catalans, who vote, viscose, to the Jews or to the Lower Llobregat, whether they are independent or not. It damages with a chronic tax policy and harms with an unbearable investment deficit. Pedro Sánchez has extended the base of the weights with Catalonia – he has earned it, a lot of merit. As you know, it's already known and we could see it in this control session, last year was only thirty-six per cent of the investment in Catalonia, while Madrid was invested one hundred-four per cent. With his supposed backlash, it's an authentic understatement. Four years ago Pedro Sánchez arrived in La Moncloa and, from abroad, no resolution of the political conflict, no protection of the català, no compliment of the investments. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, President, before this situation, how is it justified to approve the assumptions of Pedro Sánchez? How does it justify giving support and rehabilitation to the Spanish Government? From Juntes to Catalunya we consider that it is time for events, that we should move on to action, that we should lead. And he knows he'll have us at his side if he's willing to act in a coordinated way to move forward, because independence is the only way to guarantee our future. And in this sense, president, we would like to know your opinion of respect and whether you intend to change your strategy in Madrid. And, look... and if you share the words of your spokesman in Madrid, who just said that the people who made the 27th of October declaration of independence possible are tarats, such as President Puigdemont. That's enough. Will you continue to allow these insults, Mr. President? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, respect the latter part of his intervention, I do not only disagree with these words, but I disagree absolutely. And from here I want to show my respect to all those who have devoted the best of their lives to fighting for the freedom of this country. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, make this clear to me – and you know it – you and all the Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Therefore, I disagree and do not share them in any case. And I'm convinced they'll have an explanation, if not a correction. From here, in the matter of infrastructure, it is obvious that the State has not completed. It is clear that the State has not fulfilled and that – you quoted Trias Fargas – we have been in this low reversal for many years. And this low reversal has occurred with governments of all colors. This year they were posing as the excuse for the covid-19, as if the covid-19 had occurred only in Catalonia and for the last forty years. Therefore, it is obvious that we must change from the structural point of view, from the base, for this reason we have defended, among other things, among many other things, we have also defended the independence of the country. You quoted Trias Fargas, and Trias Fargas found, therefore, that really an autonomy without resources could not advance, that in the investments there was this incompliment. But Trias Fargas also negotiated; Trias Fargas also always defended, from its political position, that some things I can share and in other disagreements..., defended in all areas of interlocution that he held, as well as deputy to the Congress of Deputies, his position. And that's what it's about. Don't give up. I don't think we should give up any space where we can defend what we share, which is the resolution of the political conflict, among other things, which is the defense of amnesty and the right to self-determination. I won't give up defending him in any forum. Obviously, from here on, the decisions on the parliamentary sphere you know that they correspond to the parties and that it is the parties that have to make this decision, but it is obvious that for us it is essential that the political conflict is addressed, that the negotiation process is seriously addressed, that the Spanish Government is not doing so at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.137.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the unity of the independence forces to face the attacks of the Spanish right and the repeated incompliments of the governments of the State]] [[317-00172/13]] The question is put by Mr Josep Maria Jové on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.138.0	Thank you very much, President. And a lot of congratulations on this week's convention. And on behalf of the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, all the support and all the respect of President Puigdemont, of all color. [[Greetings.]] President, I said a German philosopher that history is always repeated twice; the first as tragedy and the second as farce. In the case of Catalonia, however, history is always exactly the same: the willingness of broad sectors of the State to attack the most important sources of our existence as a people. And we're going back to seeing these days. On one side, the extremes attacking Catalonia's language and self-government. Change in leadership, yes, but the same irresponsibility as ever. We did not expect any kind of honesty, but it is spoken out of the consciousness of linguistic apartheid that will govern our stomach for the shameless intent to manipulate and divide society. Elections in Andalusia and repositioning as the central element of the electoral debate the will to end with the institutions of Catalonia, a new show that they always follow and tell the usual. As usual, they use the state's keyloggers to attack political rivals. We've always known, but now they're seeing shame. Much as they try to avoid it, political espionage against independence and social movements, whether with technological infiltrations or with the most traditional human infiltrations, come out in the light of the day and leave them in evidence. As evidenced by the systemic failure and repeated to the citizenry of Catalonia on the part of all, all the governments of the State, already with the investments already with the commitments of the extraordinary summits. They can already present ridiculous excuses to justify unacceptable and insulting percentages of presuppositional execution or ask for collaboration to cope with humanitarian dramas when they are not even in full solidarity. Not one euro has arrived for the Ukrainian refugees. It is the realization of this historical reality that has made independence strong and majority, and it is the effects of this reality that require us to be more hegemonic and determined. Let us at a time of toilets and err in adversaries – and yes, we, the first ones – to focus on what the country needs: a shared strategy to respond to the unit of action of who wants to end up with us. Because we want to do the opposite of what they do: more right and more freedom, civil, political and cultural, and for everyone; build consensus, as we just saw today around the language; lead proposals, and complete, above all complete, to help people. That is why, President, we ask him: how does his government work to deal with this situation? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.140.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, thank you very much for your... (The President of the Generalitat tus.) Excuse me. Thank you very much for your intervention. I would like to point out that in the midst of all that you have put into the replete, the broad agreement, of great relevancy, that this morning, this same morning, we are near in this Parliament; a demonstration of how the consent to put the country ahead of partisan positions is exposed. And that's what I'm saying in recognition of the four political groups that, therefore, have put the country's consensus and have put the shared goals..., on the part of legitimate party aspirations. We have the responsibility to legislate. The legislature of Catalonia is the Parliament of Catalonia, not the courts. The courts must make judgments, they must interpret the laws, but who makes the laws are the parliaments. And, therefore, I would like to highlight this issue. We have also seen how this monitoring session has again lost the opportunity, on the part of some parliamentary groups, to demarcate expressions such as linguistic apartheid. If the Spanish right moderate uses expressions like linguistic apartheid, we see what the rest is, and defines the rest. But this shows that by moderation in matters – in matters – it shows an absolute disconnection of Catalan reality, but, moreover, it shows an extraordinary ignorance of what apartheid meant. It is a banalization of all the pain of crimes and deaths caused by the apartheid regime in South Africa. These comparisons may be used to generate some headlines, but neither build the future nor allow you to visualize someone as a leader with an acceptable minimum of ethics. These last few weeks we've also seen how incomplete the State is. And, therefore, this must lead us to strengthen the unity of those who defend the interests of Catalonia, and that we defend, in the investments, claiming that it presupposed – that it is not a compromise with the political parties that gave support to the presumption, it is a compromise with citizenship – is carried out. Thirty-per-cent execution of the presumption is not acceptable. And it's not an exception of a year, because the mean of the last years has been around sixty percent of presuppositional execution. In a democracy, with opposition, you come to terms, you talk, you disagree, but you don't spy on it. And so precisely because of this, we need to follow more determined than ever to make up our minds, to get this hegemony that you claimed and to get all the alliances to get this country to decide for itself a republic... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.141.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the maintenance of the cooperative attitude with other governments and administrations at the time of defending the industry and the economic interests of Catalonia]] [[317-00174/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.142.0	Madam President, Mr Aragones, these are difficult times, complex and with great doses of unpredictability. Calen decided governments, cohesive and strong leaders. It's not, I think, what we have in Catalonia, I said, with all due respect. And in these difficult times, good news doesn't abound. For this today in voldria highlight one: the presentation yesterday, in Terramar, in Sant Pere de Ribes, of the new range of electric vehicles Cupra, Cupra brand, of SEAT Volkswagen. A very relevant news for Catalonia, for Spain and for the automotive sector. You were there yesterday – we had occasion to greet us –; it was at your place. And I just..., and I want to recognize it publicly, the same way that I've been absenced from my unwarranted point of view, that you did yesterday what you had to do. Someone will tell me that a flower is not summery, but you did what you had to do yesterday, representing the Government of Catalonia. Mr. Aragones, will you continue to work with other governments and administrations to boost Catalonia's industry and economy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.144.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, I will maintain the defense of the country's economic and social interests, which are also the interests of Catalonia's industry. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see this step before the automotive industry is making in our country, from the hands of Cupra and SEAT. So, that's good news. There must be no more; some that depend on projects that we are working on, such as the whole area of European xip, which would allow us to situate the entire value chain of semiconductors in Catalonia and strategically position ourselves in Europe and serve our industry. The Government of Catalonia is working there, and obviously we collaborate with all the administrations that work in this sense. But also one of the major deficiencies in Catalonia, which shows our competitiveness, is infrastructure. We haven't talked enough at this control session and in the last few days. And it's obvious that the Spanish government isn't doing well here, and it hasn't done well for a long time; it's become structural. And, therefore, I dropped a tip; I complained to the Minister of Transport. She, therefore, placed us in this 2022, but it is essential that this tipping point is produced, because it affects the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. We will continue to defend the interests of the Catalan industry. We will continue to defend the interests of the workers of Catalonia, the economy and Catalan society. And we will do it with everyone: when it comes to claiming, claiming; when it comes to comparing positions, comparing positions, and when it comes to reaching agreements, reaching agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.145.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.146.0	I do not like to correct anyone, but I would not say that it is, yesterday, "a good news, I would say that it is" a very good news. Miri, we can get four lessons from yesterday. The path is that of collaboration, not that of competition; collaboration between different levels of administration: European Union, with the Next Generation Foundation; the Government of Spain, with the Motor Vehicle Loss; Government of Catalonia; Government of Navarre, which was also present; Government of the Valencian Community, which was also present; and the assemblies, that of Martorell, of Abrera and of Sant Pere de Ribes. Second, long-term work, seem today to gather tomorrow; third, always, always, to speak, to dialogue, and fourth, industrial policy. An attitude that, if you follow, will count on the support of my group, which is in favour of useful policy. What prevents us from talking calmly and calmly about how to strengthen industry in Catalonia? What prevents us from acting together to the benefit of Catalonia? I'm available. About the state's investments: things are getting better. I recommend, to whom I have not yet done so, that I read the last publication of Mr. Pere Macias – not precisely a person of ideology who coincides with what I defend – who speaks of a clear better in the field of rolling stock. You will count on my support, to be demanding, but I also ask you to be self-demanding. We've heard some questions in this control session addressed to the vice president, Mr. Puignero, also filling in a few shortcomings in execution, which far exceeds fifty per cent of the Generality's investment assumption. Requires self-requirement, too, Mr. Aragonès. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.147.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Catalonia, in these moments, has around a dynou_per_cent of its gross domestic product in the industry sector; we have to mark ourselves as the goal to reach 2030 at twenty-i-five_per_cent. Catalonia has been a highly specialised European territory in industry and it has to be, and we have the conditions to do so. And the geopolitical conditions of the past year are giving us some opportunity that we must not take advantage of for industrial relocation, not only at European level but also at global level. So we're there. The presuppositional performance report of the finals of 2021 indicates that in the investments, chapter 6, real investments, the execution is of 71_per_cent, of the Generality; chapter 7, capital transfers, of 88_per_cent. The middle, an 80_per_cent execution. Therefore, these are the data and not some other. If you have any more, explain them to me and we'll contrast them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.149.0	At the end of the control session, we now turn to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for a law guaranteeing the service of automatic cashier to the municipalities at risk of financing and guarantee in access to banking services. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for a law guaranteeing the automatic depository service in municipalities at risk of financial and guarantee exclusion in access to banking services]] [[270-00004/13]] In accordance with Rule 176 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left, Joint for Catalonia, the People's Unity Candidature and the Parliamentary Group of the Common We may have called for a single reading before the plenary of this initiative. The Bureau agreed to raise to the plenary the single reading proposal called for by the parliamentary groups, and this first debate must revolve around the general appreciation of the text, the timeliness, the principles and criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the totality debate. According to what we agreed at the Spokesman's Board, the time each parliamentary group will have is five minutes. And in the first place, the proposed parliamentary groups will intervene. It has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.150.0	Thank you. Good morning. I didn't expect you to touch me the first... Today we are ahead of a proposal by the law that we believe addresses a very small part of what a debate around the bank should address, the financing system; an issue that is absolutely necessary and indispensable if what we want is to talk about the rights of the majority versus the robbers of the minority. And it's that from the end of the 1970s, economic neoliberalism was promoted, ordered and launched to the end of the political and public control of the financial system; banking the boxes and eliminating any public or social model that was an interbank for private finances and its speculative purposes. In several European countries, in addition, at the beginning of the economic crisis, public resources were used both state and European to rescue the financial entities, promote and subsidise banking concertation operations, facilitate the acquisition of bank deposits at low cost by the large bank and direct all economic and social development to the support of private banking interests. In other words, all of Europe was covered up by bank balance sheets and paid off for those who were running private banks. Here we also have examples, with boxes, and a paradigmatic example would be Catalonia Box. In fact, since the beginning of the crisis, the Spanish state has undergone a number of major processes in the banking sector. While it facilitated the private bank's massive purchase of the school boxes or was urged to convert them to bank formats, it also produced an unaudited banking concentration phenomenon for its intensity and speed. But it's more of the phenomenon of this conversion and acquisition of the boxes for the banks – the problems of which, of these boxes for the students, require reforms that in no case happened to become banks – it was done to a preu irriori and after a public cleanup of its balances and with a socialization of the losers. Always: privatizing the benefits, socializing the losers. It is widely known what the bank bailout entailed, what the more than EUR 53,000_million of public calls for as the bank bailout to change austerity and structural adjustments were. We will not enter here, because it is not near, but we do want to make a special mention of the Sareb, of what it has supposed or what it is the « ailing bank and of which it has now itself implied its sale and, therefore, exposure to the backsplash. But, as I said, the return or the bank bailout, these 61,000_millions of bank bailout via FROB, which were translated and translated into the final loss of more than 40,000_millions of public euros..., lost more than 40,000_millions of public euros. And he's back from the bank to society? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, on the contrary: to take advantage of the new crisis to reinvigorate margins; to take advantage of the new crisis to close offices, branches and caixers; to use as an excuse the digitalization to increase the digital bretxa, and also to abandon all those people who need financial advice, and which, through digitalization, and therefore only digital attention, the bank continues to take advantage of to place and sell financial products, which is what it does to scan even more people. In the Spanish State, according to the Bank of Spain, one of the three branches have been closed for the last five years. In fact, in Catalonia, in some provinces, forty per cent. In the province of Barcelona, one_third of the population has neither office nor automatic caixers. As a paradigmatic example of the abandonment of the private bank of the majority of the population, Trinitat Nova, one of the lowest-income barrels, was consumed a few days ago, the closure of their last branch. A barri with 7,600 inhabitants, a barri where the percentage of seniors of sixty-five years living alone is thirty-u_per_cent higher than the middle. Popular classes, people who saw solo, digital brettxa. And what's the private bank doing? Lock down the last remaining branch. The closure of branches is also a class issue; leaving even more abandoned and more marginalized the popular classes that have difficult access to many of the services. And let us not be mistaken, however; the solution is not to give more money to the bank, the solution goes on to work definitively for a public bank at the service of the people and beyond the hands of the robbers. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.151.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.152.0	Well, so... good morning. Well, what are we talking about in this proposal for a law guaranteeing the service of ATMs in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and of guaranteeing access to banking services that we want to bring to the Congress of Deputies why this regulation is being addressed? So we're talking basically about a set of demands that we got here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, to different parliamentary groups, union organizations, the Federation of Pensioners of Workers Commissions, for example, or entities of the great people, pensioners and retirees, organizations, that came to show the existence of difficulties to access the financial services; some services that theoretically hold the category of basic services and that could not be accessed, because they were so many offices, because there were no caixers, because there were no people in person, and because there was a digital band that made it difficult for them to do so. There was an evidence that placed us, in the name of the great people, a follow-up of the collectius. But we are also talking about a set of resolutions that different municipalities in Catalonia have approved at the length of these past months, showing that their municipalities have been left without entities, without offices, to offer this basic service to their citizens. Therefore, this proposal is intended to respond to social demands and also to the resolutions of many municipalities in Catalonia in this sense. Because there are some facts that show the reality. For example, if we talk about the city of Barcelona in concrete terms, since the year 2020 the bank has closed forty_percent of the city's caixers; of 1,124 caixers that there were, now there are 717. That is why he clearly alerted the Barcelona Assembly and asked that the role of the private bank is regulated to guarantee these basic services. Or different queries that have been made found that only forty-eight per cent of people who are over eighty years old use the online banking service; it was evident that more than fifty per cent of seniors of fifty years old have difficulties accessing the banking service digitally. And that's a reality. And this reality is not because it is; this reality is the fruit of political action at certain times, but also of the political power that the funded entities have developed over time. From the outset, why do we have to remember how the government of Mariano Rajoy, the government of the People's Party, European legislation regarding the regulation of entities financed to do the basic service, this one, of the finances, did we not? Because when Europe said that the services that allow you to withdraw in the window or in the automatic boxes outside the opening of the entity of credit money in that account, within the European Union, regulated this, that it was essential to be able to withdraw money in the window or in the automatic boxes outside the opening of the entity of credit money, here in Spain it was translated as ‘the withdrawal of money in effect in the offices of the entity or in the automatic boxes..., but it withdrew'or in the automatic boxes outside the entity, with which we found ourselves with financial entities that, in an important process of conversion of the financial sector, were devoted to those entities which are not in the entity, but which are not in the European field. Therefore, we found that the funded entities opened up this important process of conversion that they brought about in a nutshell, this conversion, in the plants and in the users, with a decrease in costs that was only explained by the willingness of these entities to continue to accumulate scandalous benefits without taking on any social responsibility. And the result is known: thousands of concoctions and a greater social seal for what makes access to the financed services, in the form of office locks, locked boxes, in the form of loss of face care, in the form of increased costs and commissions that the users pay. This scandal that is taking the lead in the finance sector cannot be paid by the users or by the workers. For this reason, it should be regular that there is no territorial exclusion from the offer of financial services, that all municipalities may be offered cashiers because people can interact, but also that there is a face-to-face offer to attend to those people who have this difficulty of digital access, and that all this makes sense that it implies cost for the user or cost for the public authorities, that all this is done with the guarantee funds that the financial entities have to provide to guarantee access to the financial basic services of the border of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.153.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.154.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. After Mr. Gallego's intervention, I almost didn't have anything left to add, did I? In any case, I would like to thank, in this case the Department of Economy and Councillor Giró, who poses on the table this problem that affects our country, that we have about 250,000 inhabitants, a quarter of a million inhabitants, in our country, especially in communities extended from metropolitan areas, without physical access to take money or bank basic operations; that, in addition, many of these bank basic operations are necessary at any time to process, therefore, a social service aid, or a municipal transaction, or aid in the rehabilitation of housing for large people, or a woman's fellowship, or a scholarship to school; whatever it is necessary for me to provide a certificate of authority to provide an extra money, to provide a certificate of authority, to provide a certificate of authority, to provide a certificate of authority, to give an authorization, to provide a certificate of authority, to give a certificate of authority, to give a certificate of approval, to give a certificate of approval, to give a certificate of approval, to give a certificate of approval, to give a certificate of authority, to give a certificate of approval, to give a certificate of approval. We have a quarter of a million people without basic access to this service, and therefore we have a country problem; a country problem that unfortunately we do not have the legislative capacity – like a country that we want to be, like a country that claims citizenship – to solve it. And, therefore, we see ourselves under the obligation to do so, in this case, therefore, who does have the capacity to legislate banking services, which is the Central State..., to do so, through this proposal of the law, because it rules this mechanism. Mr Gallego explained this: when the country on the coast transposed the European directive, it did not do so correctly, because there were people left from the bank's point of view. The geographic exclusion – they have also said in previous interventions – causes fewer rights of the citizenry; therefore, it creates a risk of depopulation; it also causes many times the risk that, when you have to make some investment or settle in a territory..., therefore, you seek access to basic services, among them the services to access to hold, as we say, physical money, or simply be able to make some basic processing through your current accounts. And there's a lot of people, too, so, they're not... they haven't had access to training or digitalization, huh? , that the system has certainly carried us very quickly, and that the crisis and the confinement of the covid, therefore, have accentuated it. So, we have a territorial imbalance, we have a population imbalance for what it does to its financial rights, and that we have to reverse it. And this fact, therefore, is the object of the law's proposition. It has probably already been said: it would not be enough and we could be debating with many other measures – surely – but this is a proposal of law that is intended to be effective, to be of rapid processing, to solve quickly a problem that our country has. And, therefore, I certainly don't include many points to change, but the ones needed to reverse a situation. And that's the object. Let's explain it to you in the month of fever, when he introduced himself here in Parliament too. What are we asking for? What do we ask of parliamentary groups? That the possibility of its processing for a single reading, to gain time; to gain time so that this can arrive at the Congress of Deputies, and so to put on the table of the debate whose responsibility it is, that is the Government of the State, to reverse this situation, which, as we say, affects many communities, many peoples, many of our inhabitants. And I would say, moreover, that there are in many cases people with mobility difficulties; people, as I say, with difficulty in having digital connections. And, therefore, we cannot allow citizens, in this sense, first or second for the place of residence, first or second for their abilities, first or second for the simple reason that they can access a financial service. Therefore, we want to reverse this situation; for this purpose of law and for this reason today we ask you to support us because it can be dealt with in a single reading. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.155.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.156.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, the fact that four such different political formations jointly present a proposal for law to deal with it before the Congress of Deputies is not very common, and that is certainly proof that the issue being raised and posed from the table responds to the common sense. And today, as has been said, we propose to deal with this bill for a single reading, because what we pretend is not to fine-tune the detail of the joint but what we pretend is, as has been said, to put this issue on the table of the parliamentary chamber that has the powers, which is the Congress of Deputies. And this is not the first time we have talked about it in this plenary, nor is it in the Congress of Deputies; in fact, in the past general policy debate was debated, a motion for a resolution was adopted. At the level of the Senate, it was proposed and discussed the fact that the Government of the State is developing a regulation that sets the minimum number of offices as well as of automatic caixers needed for each of the territories in order to guarantee a service that must be universal. And, in fact, also, as explained, we are before a topic that is competence of the State: Article 149.1 of the Constitution assigns to the State exclusive competence in the order of credit and banking. And that's why any approach we make in this chamber to do it from collateral competitions, as is the case at this time in the Department of Enterprise and Labour, which approved the preliminary memo on the draft law to modify the Catalonia consumer code, a modification of the consumer code that proposes to address the risk of financing exclusion, regulating the conditions and the minimum benefits that must be offered by the financial entities to the consumer. For another band, the Spanish State has also recently promoted the signature of the strategic protocol to strengthen the social and sustainable commitment of the bank, a protocol that seeks to guarantee its financing. However, we are aware that a protocol approaches voluntarism and not compulsory, and, by definition, a protocol will not guarantee and cannot guarantee anything at all. And while these initiatives, the funding exclusion continues to grow. And for this reason, because of the urgency of the subject, we plant that it is possible to read uniquely in this chamber. Since 2008, Catalonia has closed a sixty-four per cent of the banking offices, the sixty-four per cent; we have 8,200, at this time we do not have 2,900. And the trend continues to feel down as low as at least until 2025. However, it must also be acknowledged that, according to the European Central Bank, the Spanish State has kept 4.7 offices for every two thousand inhabitants. It is the second state of the European Union with a larger network of offices behind France. In absolute terms too, 2017 the Spanish State was the second state of the European Union with the most automatic boxes, also behind France. And the banking sector justifies the closing of offices in the fact that only five per cent of the banking transactions at this time are being made face-to-face. It is also true that in 2008 the number of offices was excessively high. But all this is true, too, as has been said, today forty-seven percent of Catalonia's municipalities do not have an automatic box – forty-seven percent – and the market tends to abandon these segments of society and territories that do not generate the benefits they expect, and excludes it from financing, at these times, is affecting vulnerability by reasons of age, training, or simply by lack of territorial equity. Peripheral metropolitan bars, small municipalities, families affected by the digital divide see at these times how certain factors of discrimination are increasing. If we don't do anything, let's see how, a few years from now, all the municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants – two thirds of the municipalities of Catalonia – will not have access to an automatic box, access to cash. The deployment responds to many factors. I also respond to the lack of services as we are talking about today, and I want to give you an answer, a response from the perspective that we are ahead of an essential service, and therefore you have to have certain conditions and mandatory services. I'm done with three conclusions. Firstly, the guarantee of access to the financial services cannot be left in the hands of the financial entities concerned. Secondly, it may be used by public administrations to consider banking services as essential services. Finally, it is necessary to require that costs continue to be borne by the financial entities concerned. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.157.0	Then, to position himself, first of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.158.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, at this point we consider the opportunity of dealing with this proposal for an automatic depository service guarantee law in municipalities at risk of financing exclusion. In this sense, show our forbearance position at this point. We have already expressed in the debate on the motion a few plenary sessions that we consider the content of this proposal to be in good faith, but it is manifestly insufficient. Precisely for this reason, we believe that single-read processing is inadequate, because of the complexity and abst of which they claim to be dealing with the law, the exclusion will finance it and the guarantee of the service, the banking services, as indicated by the same name of the norm. In which we have adopted four proposals for a single reading law, all of them with one or two articles as maximum, and there are five more in processing in which we find ourselves with the same characteristics, two articles as maximum, more additional final dispositions and transitions. In today's bill, we find ourselves with thirty-two articles plus six additional dispositions and three finals. But it's not about quantity, it's about complexity. We believe that we cannot seek to solve the financing exclusion and guarantee the right to access to finance services only by placing or placing boxes in municipalities that do not have them. This is to be done, for sure, but it is not enough to fulfil the objective announced with the title of the law, which should be the real objective of the law. That is why we are convinced that the ordinary processing, the laying, the appearances of experts, representatives of the sectors, of the municipalities affected, also of barrels in cities that are excluded from this rule, should have been able to bring much to it. On the other hand, the exercise of constitutional mechanisms of legislative cooperation between administrations with the exercise of the legislative initiative of the Parliament at the Congress seems to us very well, as is done in this project. But it would also seem to us that this field of cooperation has complied with the development of standards already approved at the Congress and that they fully contemplate the objectives of the proposal that we are dealing with today. In fact, with a broader perspective. I refer to Law 4 of 2022, of 25 February, on the protection of vulnerable consumers. The law promoted by Minister Garzón, which the third additional provision indicates, and which literally reads, establishes, let's say, that the locking of bank offices does not equip the locking of their automatic boxes; the increase of support staff to help people with less digital capabilities; the installation of signs and priority indications in the use of boxes; the promotion of the reservation of excluded boxes for vulnerable people, technologies of access to the bank understandable sensillas; the maximum security ahead of thefts, deceptions and scams; measures to ensure the presence of elderly people, also measures to lie down the services financed to all people, especially in the rural environment; the law should not be ill-representing you except in groups. Therefore, it is also a topic that has been addressed at the level of which it has competence at the level of financial regulation, which is effectively the Congress of Deputies. Personalized attention, timetables, access technologies, are also essential elements such as ensuring access to the rural world; also to the city's barrels, which are not covered by this bill, which in fact was a few moments ago by Congresswoman Reguant. In this sense, remember how the last few weeks the service was closed at Trinitat Nova's bar in Barcelona, with more than 7,600 people left without service. Or Sabadell, you hit barrels like Can Deu or Romeu Tower, you hit thousands of people for this problem. And we sincerely believe that ordinary processing could improve the standard. Perhaps we wanted to run a lot and we lost, in this sense, quality in regulation and in being able to fill more fully the combination of the problem. I remembered – and to end – of my intervention a few days ago to the Commission of Justice, I came to memory an example – I am lately grasping embrazzada of ocells making interventions on the economy, so we speak today also of ocells. I remembered the bust at the entrance of Ca l'Ardiaca's building, referring to when it was yours of the Advocates' College at the end of the xix century. As far as justice is concerned, I have the right to extrapolate it to the legislative sphere. There have been little ores and a tortoise that symbolize the allegory that justice, in this case – and I insist, I extrapolate to the legislation, in the legislative capacity – must be quick as a tortoise, but also safe as a tortoise. In this case we may have advanced speed to security and to undertake broader, more comprehensive legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.159.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.160.0	Madam President, Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. They bring us today, the four parties that have spoken before – two of the government team, Esquerra and Junts, plus two others that have more or less consistently supported the government, the CUP and In Comú Pomera –, a proposal for a law to be approved by the state – this is important – is the competent one in this matter according to article 149.1 of the Constitution and as, indeed, has been mentioned here on several occasions, with the aim of having all municipalities have an automatic cashier for use by citizens. The truth is, this proposal causes a little strange sensations, doesn't it? because, in fact, there is a problem in which I believe that we are all more or less in agreement. It is a solution that is partial, and that has already been put forward by some of the rapporteurs, and it is also mandatory – this is because some people love it, as we have seen – but it is something that is not our responsibility, they have to do it elsewhere. But, well, that makes us feel a little weird, doesn't it? Well, I think we will all agree that Spanish citizens living in small municipalities, usually affected by depopulation, do not enjoy banking services of the same quality as those living in more populated municipalities. Here is also an important point that is also the subject of some neighborhoods, eh? It is well known for all the rapid evolution that citizens have had access to these services, which, if they are based on physical presence, on personality, have generally been provided through Internet access, and the rapidity of these changes has made it difficult for many people, usually older and dependent people, to access these services. In view of this situation, it should be remembered that last February 21st the update of the strategic protocol was signed to strengthen the social and sustainable commitment of the bank, signed between the Spanish Banking Association and the Spanish Confederation of Savings Banks. In addition, the Government of Spain was present at the signing of this protocol; of which one of those who propose this is curiously part. This protocol contains a number of measures that can be a good initiative to help protect these people. With regard to the proposal that we are debating today, we believe, as I said at the beginning, that it remains short, because it only speaks of ATMs; that, even, it must be remembered that in order to use them it is necessary to have tools, cards, savings books, and knowledge, that some of these people affected, therefore, are lacking, right? And we don't talk about banking services in general, which we think is the problem. As is usually the case in the proposals of these groups, there is no provision for any kind of aid or tax rebate to companies which are obliged to provide this service, but are obliged to do so, is there not? And also, these companies, therefore, will have to bear all these costs of buying cashiers, maintenance, operation... And one thing that attracts attention is that they must even pay all the taxes that this activity generates, even if they do not do so voluntarily, but are forced, that is, "I force you to do so and I charge you tax. Curious. Well, taking into account, as has been said, that it is a state competition – nobody discusses it – and that, therefore, it must be the state that reaches agreements with the credit institutions, it is surprising, although, well, we are already accustomed to their inconsistencies, that, as I have said, one of the groups that make this proposal to the Government of Spain, In Comú Puem, is in turn a member of that government. Surprise. We can say something similar about one of the separatist groups associated with the government of Pedro Sánchez, with whom he could have perfectly negotiated this proposal directly in the Congress of Deputies. We, since VOX, believe, and we have proposed in the Congress of Deputies, that the necessary measures should be taken to ensure that financial services constitute a basic and essential social service for the elderly and dependent, especially in rural areas, by promoting agreements and commitments with financial institutions to ensure their access and face-to-face, which we believe is the great problem, as well as an adequate service to their needs. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.161.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.162.0	Counsellor, Members, Members, President... Well, we have here a debate that is somehow the continuation of other debates that we have had in this Parliament about the need to increase or, as a minimum, to give access to the financial services to all the citizens of Catalonia and to Catalan society. And, in fact, this is a debate that we can extrapolate to all of Spain and possibly to all of Europe. And that's already a little bit of the territorial distribution we have in every space or place. Today we have a debate on this subject, and we do... in fact, we will vote on whether or not it is appropriate that it is done for one reading. What's said, we think it's not, we think it's not right that it's done for one reading. We will abstain, because there is one part, a foundation of the question that we can share, but we believe that this is a debate that needs to be held in a relaxed way, and that we believe that there is a complexity to the text enough because it is done in a much more workable way by all parliamentary groups. It is something that we do or have done a lot in this Parliament, because many times it is about the ability or number of articles that have a law that is brought here for one reading, but sometimes I think that complexity and, above all, the transcendence that this debate has is more important. Today we have had, in fact, another debate on a single reading on a subject as important as language or bilingualism in Catalonia, and it has also been done for one reading. We thought it was a proposal, a law, that should have been debated, because it is often spoken of reaching consensus, but consensus never ends on the basis of parliamentary debate. But aside from this topic, we do not believe that we need to give support at this time, or at least directly, to the one reading. There is a source of the question that we can share, but we believe that here it is again to sin many times, I suppose that because of the composition of those who propose this proposal of law, leaving together for Catalonia, that I still don't know very well how I could define them ideologically, because sometimes they vote or propose things with the CUP, and sometimes, therefore, they associate with the right, say it – at the Congress of Deputies they have done many times – more conservative, but it's the same, I imagine that some day they ended up defining themselves. But aside from that, we believe that it is an insufficient law, it is a law possibly unable to answer the needs of Catalans on this issue, and that it will be very slow in its process, because it has also been said. Well, it's good to consolidate this view that we are part of national sovereignty and that we are going to the Congress of Deputies to discuss the things that are the competence of the Congress of Deputies, which seems to me very good, but it is clear that the process will be slow, and very likely, have groups, as all of you have, including some of them who are in government, so to do so, they could solve it more quickly. But many times this is nothing more than a way to have a toast to the sun, to have a headline today about who are worried about some needy people who surely, therefore, do not have the ability to give answers in another way. It has been said before, the situation in Spain, Catalonia, especially in Spain, of automatic caixers, therefore, is not so painful. In fact, in 2019, we had the same automatic boxes as France, and France has 20_million more inhabitants; the same as Italy, which also has a much higher population. The problem is..., and here's where we want to get into the complaint, it's a problem of complexity and territorial distribution of these boxes, and it's obvious that it leaves private initiative to this, but I think that it doesn't answer a much more basic need, which is if it can give an answer – no longer only to the boxes, but to the banking offices – to the vulnerability of groups of people who don't have the ability or the digital knowledge or the digital knowledge to access them. We have to face, and if we want to face, a law not only to keep boxes in the territory, but also because the current banking entities and the current banking offices can give an accessible answer to users who do not have the capacity to do so yet. This I believe can be done with initiatives that here have been given as quality secrets of banking services, and other initiatives that we have defended. And so, as I conclude, because I don't have much more time, and we're going to extend more into the text of the same..., when you do the definite debate, for us it has to be..., you have to give an initiative that encourages, that protects the incentive to bank entities so that they can give this service, but I think the obligation we see to what this interventionism would be, so it won't work, as other initiatives that you also carry to this Parliament don't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.163.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.164.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're dealing with a case where the shapes and the bottom come into collision. The forms, when I mean that the single reading processing system is not the most suitable for such an initiative. It is not from the political point of view because..., in short, it remains in depth in the debate, but it is that even from the regulatory point of view, if you look at the regulation with a little rigour, you will see that there is nowhere to take it. Therefore, let it be clear that, from the point of view of forms, it is not the best way to deal with it. It comes into collision with the bottom, because there is a part of the bottom that is fully justified, and so it is. Here I believe that everyone or practically everyone can be very clear. The banking system has a number of structural advantages that do not come from free competition, but come from the triumph of credit as a system of progress and economic growth in modern Western economies, and that, therefore, because it has some advantages that do not come from free competition, it also has a number of responsibilities, and those responsibilities must be covered by the bank, and only by the bank, indeed. But, man, this has to be done and we have to study it better. Here you apply a little bit of fat brush in one of the sentences in the text with some ideological prejudices that we consider to be, in the end, out of place, right? Therefore, from this lack of rigour in the form and some discrepancies in the substance, we shall abstain in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.165.0	As the Member has not consumed all the time, I now call the votes and proceed to the vote. [[Long break.]] The debate is over, so we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for processing, directly and in single reading before the plenary of the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies the proposal for a law guaranteeing the service of the automatic cashier to municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and guaranteeing access to banking services. We believe that the affirmative votes are in favour of their processing and in one reading, and the negative votes are against. The vote begins. [[Remove from the background.]] This single-reading proposal received 78 votes in favour, 12 against and 38 abstentions. With the result of the vote, this proposal for law will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary and the table sets the deadline for presenting so many items to the totality as the items to the joint... The deadline will end the 10th of June at two o'clock in the middle. We suspend the session until three-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.166.0	Begin. [[Asking the Government about a Year of Republican Transformation]] [[300-00189/13]] Let us resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, the question to the Government about a year of republican transformation, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.167.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. We're in the family, but... welcome and welcome everyone. Today, of course, therefore, we are asking Councilwoman Vilagrà, because just over a year ago our country had a new government, the new government of our country was beginning to walk. And that means that the councillors and advisors of this new republican government took possession, and a few days earlier the president, President Pere Aragonès, had done so; in fact, the first president of the Republican Left of Catalonia since Josep Tarradellas was able to return from exile eighty years after the fascism was the presidency and life of President Lluís Companies. Eighty years later, this Parliament, the ballot boxes, on February 14, 2021, had again chosen a republican president. And, therefore, for the first time again he was presiding over Catalonia someone who did not come from the political establishment of the 78th Regime or from the socialist sphere or from the origins of the old Convergence or its surroundings. A fall that for us is historic to our country, which started – which has started – a new stage and which opened many expectations of transformation. Some transformation expectations that were already present in the composition of this new Government when it began to walk: a joint government, a government with feministism with its own vision, with this new Department of Equality and Feminisms, and also..., not only with the declaration of intent of the composition of the new Government, but also with the will to articulate four great transformations in the form of four fundamental pillars in order to support the transformations and revolutions that we believe are necessary in our country: feminist transformation, green transformation, democratic transformation and social transformation. But the expectations, for many transformers that follow, must be translated into political action, into fact. And that's why we're here today, to balance this first year of the Republican government and to see these first bases of this transformation in our country. In fact, counsel, what we want to do is a transparency exercise that fits our way of hearing politics, from Republican values, from the willingness to give explanations, from the vocation of service, from building trust and trust in the citizenry to day-to-day accounts, also today. In fact, if I may..., it is this position, this way of hearing politics, as a tool to try to be useful to the citizenry, to solve the problems, to face all the challenges, to seek and find solutions; it is to fulfill the commitments and make the art of doing that the things you want to happen, and thus contribute, thus, to the common good. Many times we have to make self-criticism because we don't get out; others, however, it is possible and we do get out. We need to rock. One year later, we want to evaluate this piece of work, and, according to our parents, so there's no way if there's any piece of work on the table, already. The government balance, this strict and transparent balance..., indicated a few days ago the same president that we were about thirty..., almost thirty-four percent of work done only in this first year. Thirty-three, thirty-four_percent of work done in the twenty-i-five_percent of the legislature, which is this first year of the four years to be held by the legislatures. And, therefore, as we would say before, as I said at school, "progressed properly. The other day we felt just President Aragonès and Vice President Puignero explain these concrete facts. Some figures that, certainly, if we only take them as figures, as data, may seem cold, or they may be abstract and senseless, but, if we enter the portion of the content, we see that these data, these percentages, take the whole sense. In fact, before we finished the year, we saw how we had – and for the first time in the last two years – some assumptions approved before you finished the disembarkation, and therefore some assumptions that began to be available to the country the same 1 generation. Some assumptions on one_of_each_two euros of increase were used to stop sanitation and education; some assumptions of the way wide, negotiated with the CUP, finally approved with Catalonia in common, thanks, therefore, to intense negotiations. And we believe that it was normal for these assumptions to be adopted with the complicity of the left, because they exceeded the current cost of retailing, because they recovered the investor's pulse, because they extended the amount of empty housing to all large households, whether business or private; that they allowed child 2 to be implemented in the proper course free of charge, that they would allow the reduction of payments and that they allowed, for example, the menstrual equity plan, that has already begun to distribute copies and even reusable to all the institutes of Catalonia and will be deployed. Some assumptions that, in their accompanying law, therefore, also served us to make the moratoria of incinerators, to put some of the examples. Some compliments that say they're not just data, which may seem cold if we just grab them with some data, but they translate into changes, into transformations for people's lives in their day-to-day lives. A transformation, for example, for families, who will be able to bring their children and their daughters to school because precisely from the very beginning of the course the child 2 will be free for the first time. He'll have all the meaning..., not these figures, but just the reality, for those vulnerable infants the fact of finding P3, from the very course, the infantile 3, the ration, therefore, smaller. And they will also benefit from this educational advancement, which is right for the equal opportunities of the most vulnerable infants. That this is transformation, because it is a guarantee of fairness, because they are policies that bring us closer to equal opportunities, and therefore, to combat inequalities, above all the smallest in our country. A government action that went beyond, as I said, percentages and that is real for all, for example, activists who have seen the Generality withdraw and lower their accusations, and therefore will not suffer some of the accusations because from the Department of Interior makes sure that the law does not apply. And, therefore, they will defend, yes, the functionaries of aggression, but it is not going to pursue anyone ideologically, as, unfortunately, it had been possible to pass. An action that can be very quick or small to explain, but that has not been possible until now, and before, therefore, had not passed. A Republican President and an Interior Councillor had to arrive in order to ensure that the public policies of the Government of Catalonia are also consistent with Republican values, and therefore are not policies ostating the law, even Mariano Rajoy, which is in force in the Spanish State. A republican transformation that comes to life, for example, on a day-to-day basis and will come to life more intensively on a day-to-day basis by the mayors and mayors of our country's municipalities, above all micro-populations; those mayors and mayors above all smaller or micro-populations, who see themselves as after years of desading in a covetous place, therefore, are placed in the needle to measures such as, for example, the state of rural municipalities or how the rural agenda is already approved to deploy a model that guarantees territorial equity to our country. Because what we want is a decent country, not a country of inequality or imbalance. I, at the level of the rest of the municipalities, the Council of Local Governments and the council of the local world are reactivated. Also a republican transformation that will be noticed by students at universities and their families when they have to pay 30_per_cent less of the public fees to access the university. And this is also equal opportunities or combat pre-existing inequalities. Or some actions that have already benefited young people through that support plan or youth unemployment plan, which practically had 1,000_million euros already good beginning to walk this legislature. Those, therefore, who see that the benefits of hydropower concessions are no longer in the hands of the usual, but that they are reversed and are in the hands of the generality and of public energy, will take advantage of the change. We will see it as the country when we are implementing, as is happening..., accelerating renewable energies, thanks also to the new decree of renewables approved by this government a few months ago. A government action that has allowed pacts and agreements such as the process of stabilising thousands and thousands of public workers in our country; a historical measure also for the stabilisation of public workers, for the civil servants of Catalonia, who are the ones to guarantee just the best service from the Generality to the citizenry. Or a determined and ambitious bet after too long, unfortunately, the stagnation of the Catalan language and the policies of promoting the Catalan language to our country. In this case, a Republican adviser has also had to arrive because she can lead this new national language pact, which is now a country, already, because she participates, because there are entities and organizations... a great political consensus, therefore, of this Parliament and of this country. And, therefore, a new translation into facts of these transformative vocations and wills. He will advise, I leave behind an important part, which is, in short, the difficulties and complexities that we have for not having all the tools and all the resources, and this transformative will linked to the great consensus and leadership. In any case, we can talk about it later, but I would love to, so I could make a first assessment of who are these government actions that are driving and who are the next steps, precisely, to continue to develop the great transformations that suit our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.168.0	Then, and in the time of reply, has the word the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congresswoman... I want to start this first part by remembering where we met a year ago when we started the new stage of this republican government. It's important to put forward a context, if we're willing to take stock of this year. And the reality was, from a social, health and economic point of view, so we had to face up to a very complicated pandemic situation, they had to make very strong decisions with implications for the late and the past winter, still. But, if it's hard to remember that it's only been a few months, this past generation, we're experiencing an important wave of covid-19, I think we're still seeing more of what happened just a year ago, and so it's okay not to forget it. Fortunately, thanks to everyone's efforts, and especially to the collaboration of the citizenry with vaccination, we have not been able to overcome the effects on health, but still in patim, and much, the effects on emotional, economic, social aspects, which obviously still make stars. Allow me to explain to you that before starting this political stage he was working in the social camp. We have given support to people, therefore, with many difficulties from many points of view, and I must say that that was used to see, that stage served me to see that the social motto of the 2008 crisis has not yet been overcome, and that the social and support needs have grown alarmingly in the last few days. And the generality, using their skills, gave an answer and we are giving an answer, but the situations are very raw. And, for the more resources we have put in, the needy have increased over these available resources, as have those who have put in the assemblies or the local world. And this is dramatic, exacerbated now by the crisis in Ukraine, the increase in exponential prices in raw materials, energy, difficulty in finding materials... And this affects, therefore, families until negotiations and Catalan assemblies, with desert bids, etc. In fact, then we can talk a little bit more about it, in a decree that, if it's all right, we'll validate, and so we'll talk more deeply about it. So, the issue is key, the social needs are very important. And, therefore, we work intensively from all departments, but also from mine, from the Presidency, from the hand of the joints, from the hand of the local councils or other local ones. We have to work sectorally, obviously, from one band, but from the other, we have to climb territories. And I have to say that I myself have already been able to visit a few hundred municipalities, and therefore be very aware of the pulse of the country. We are all public servants, from the President of the Generality to the last worker who has joined the Generality, who we work in this sense, because the republicans and republicans and the joint government that I represent tirelessly work. And today what I will express is a balance with figures, with data – so, with transparency, as we like to do the work – but also with rigour. On one side, by way of evaluation and follow-up of the government plan. In fact, last week the president and vice president were able to do this balance and present the inn out of an application where the city council will be able to see the work done and the commitments contracted and how they are developed. Therefore, a set of sixty indicators has been developed in coordination with all departments to monitor the impact of government action. It is a matter of being able to evaluate public policies, an assignment still pending public administration. The proposed public update of this governance plan is proposed at the end of September, coinciding with a year of approval of the governance plan and the general policy debate, and the forecast is to update it every six months. For the next update of the plan, it will also try to incorporate the terms of implementation of the measures, in order to reinforce this idea of a viewfinder as the common management tool for the Government. A plan of government that, as you know, works in these four transformations that we have proposed to us – democratic, social, green and feminist – which is divided into five axes: for a country more just, with a good government and democratic referent to the world; for a country of rights, equality of opportunity and welfare; the third, for a country based on a knowledge economy, digital, entrepreneurial; the fourth, for a green, balanced and connected country, and the fifth, for a feminist country based on the guarantee of human rights. They are also deployed in dynou ambits, with seventy-six objectives, 782 measures. And what we are, therefore, finding, along with malicious headlines or misdiagnoses, is that we have sunk this 33,9_per_cent compliment of the government plan, is to say, almost thirty-four_per_cent. It's a third one we've done in a four-year term, as you said. But in any case, beyond the figures, which obviously give us true information, but in any case quantitatively, we want to go into more detail and talk more about the quality of the measures. And, in this sense, we'll go down to priorities. And that's what we were going to score: 238 concrete measures, which already means a compliment of the thirty-five percent of this plan. And, if we do it by axes, then, from the axis u, in a 30,7; on the axis two, a thirty-per-cent; on the axis three, a 32,7; on the axis four, a 39,7; and on the axis five, a twenty-i-set_per-cent. But beyond the figures, as I said, I'm talking about priorities, and we've set ourselves very clear priorities. One band, which is the parliamentary term for women's sport – and today we have had occasion to talk about it – or concrete projects such as the Aina project in digital policies – which seems very important to us to pull forward – or the agreed reversal in employment policies. A premise, as I said, on the 22nd, approved the 1st generation, clearly focused on economic reactivation and the strengthening of the welfare state: the TempsxCures program, which, as you know, is the public kangaroo – important, too –; the opening of delegations to Japan, South Korea, Andorra or South Africa; the freeness of I2 to the schools in Bressol, but also the reduction of primary rights; the increase of a significant number of aid to the research group; the clear impulse of the energy transition and the approval of the rural agenda; the strengthening of the mental health system – obviously, a very significant element – as well as the pursuit of the national justice framework; the adoption of the first sense of justice; the adoption of the first sense of truth; They're just a few examples, but they're used to explain where we're in this foundation of transformation. They are bold, brave, imaginative and innovative, therefore, always fleeing from court-terminism, ruling with a vision of the future. In short, making things happen, because this is the objective, transforming the country with all the ambition and adopting decisions that improve the day-to-day life of the citizenry. Also in the search for great consensus, which are that of the vast majority of the population, unlocking situations that paralyze the country's conjunction, such as the own investiture of this legislature, the renewal of the different statutory bodies, the proposed agreement of assumptions or defense of the language to the school as we approved today. Therefore, it is able to reach agreements on essential issues, because we are a plural and diverse country. In this sense, I will give you some examples of recent developments. On the one hand, we approved two governments that in public procurement of food services is a priority for healthy, sustainable products before the price. And it seems to us that this is a very high measure also to promote the country's products. Yesterday the government approved the food security plan. Or, in the previous government, we also wanted to approve the elaboration of the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees 2030, because beyond the Games, as we have always explained, we have a full route to boost the development of the regions of the High Pyrenees and the Aran, and Solsones, Berguedà and Ripollès, prioritizing economic dynamism, sustainability, the relationship of citizenship. For another band, in other regions that are patenting, therefore, from a point of view of territorial and economic rebalancing, we will make a special incidence, such as Alt Urgell, Pallars Sobirá, Baix Penedès, Bergedà and Priorat. For another band, we are the optical fiber network in the eighty-four percent of the Pallars comarques will rise, reaching already very small population clouds, and also in the Aran, with 5G. He has given up the pact for circular fashion, to reduce textile residues in Catalonia, with about fifty accessions. Or we would like to be able to visit the end of the works for the riuada DANA at the Conca de Barberà, with an important investment by the Generalitat : 1.5_million euros in Montblanc, 569,000 in the Espluga de Francolí, among many other municipalities. We wanted to visit them together with the local council, mayors of the Conca and mayors, and we wanted to prove the resilience, collaboration and solidarity that exists in this country. You said so too, menstrual equity; we put the first steps in it. We have also approved EUR 8_million to prevent fires in Lleida, Upper Pirinaeus, or the Alpha plan, so necessary to stop complicated situations in natural parks and other habitats, so important this is before the fire-related complication. The presentation of the rural agenda, among other issues related to the rural world, also reinforcing the first welcome, information and support for women's attention. In the second part of the reply I will explain to you more concrete themes linked to the local world, but I also have to say that I also want to talk, obviously, about the political conflict with the State and how we are dealing with it in this legislature. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.170.0	Well, thank you very much. Let's move to the third point of the order of the day... [[Pause.]] Excuse me, I didn't think you'd make a reply. So get back to the word, Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.171.0	Thank you very much, President. You have answered, because we have many things left to say, so that we can explain and share. In fact, the counselor did it now: we talked a lot about what and she also pointed out how, how to do things. You said "the ability to reach agreements, which you have also seen; we like to say this vocation to generate and work for country consensus. In fact, from the Republican Left we have always made it very clear that one way to move forward is this way of getting as many people as possible, that is, the way of consensus, of defending the consensus of existing countries, and when they leave, when they are diluted, therefore, to be able to preserve them, to be able to rebuild them. We didn't have a proof today, a practical example, here. It has cost, but we have approved the law of the protection of the model of Catalan school before the judicial impossions, with percentages of castle at the school. And what seemed impossible, in the end, therefore, with negotiation, with empathy, and even, by devoting the effort and the time needed, we made it possible. But the consensus is also forging with leadership; as I said, huh? , with empathy, with generosity, but also with leadership. And today I also want to make a recognition, in the first place, to the President of the Generality, Pere Aragonès, for this constant and firm leadership, this absolute dedication as the first public servant; in order to hold, therefore, to the head of this Catalonia we feel that we, coming together, place everyone in all decisions, without forgetting any territory and without letting anyone else go back. This is the way to make republican. A recognition to a leadership that we also want to make to you, counsel, to be this female leadership of this government and that we want to extend to all the counselors and counselors of this government. And, therefore, an acknowledgment. Because we are aware that transforming the country is not an easy task. And I fixed that one of the main shortcomings, which at the time explains why we want to be a Catalan republic, is precisely not being able to dispose of all the tools, all the resources and all the competitions. Today, and unfortunately for many years now, we find ourselves with the wall of the Spanish State, which is the authentic saying of the content of the transformations we want to make in Catalonia. One example: this Parliament approved the law containing returns, i.e., limiting the prices of loguers – to a large extent, also agreed with the entities. And what happens? That ends up being appealed and that ends up suspended when up in the Spanish State – in this case, therefore, for the Constitutional Court. A state ceases to feel when it is not useful for its citizens, when it does not guarantee progress or shared prosperity, when it does not guarantee opportunities or when it is not useful to combat inequalities, and therefore does not guarantee the future. And that's what's happening today to the citizens of this country, Catalonia. It is what happens to him today: that this State has ceased to be useful – it has ceased to be useful – for most of Catalonia's citizens. And if he told them that a president of the republican generality had to arrive, then, because some things changed, badly handing over to the government of the state all followed the same: constant incompliments– we have seen this week–, unacceptable; very low execution figures, Catalonia to the extent of the reversals of the execution of the general assumptions of the state – after we make an inquiry..., compañero Ernest Maragall will make an inquiry in this regard. A state with a government in the front, led by the PSOE-PSC, that before a democratic crisis like espionage acts as tolerating, precisely, these key-gatherers, this right-wing violation, instead of being the first defender of the rights and the democratic and right-wing states. Therefore, as this State now stands, I am pleased with its commitments. Or one of the main incompliments, that of the resolution of the political conflict, this situation of blocking not by own will of the Catalan part, while we would have liked the Catalan part to be stronger and cohesive. Who has placed this failure, this blockade, of the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the State is, therefore, the Spanish part, the Government of the Spanish State, which has always preposed party or private interests before advancing in this resolution of the political conflict. Today we see how there is judicial persecution, how repression is well alive, how there is massive espionage to Catalan institutions and Catalan society. And that doesn't generate confidence. And, on the contrary, we are very clear about what we want, that it is precisely the opposite of what this Spanish State offers us, that it does not just leave us with the tools, the skills and the resources, but that it does not complete those agreements to which we arrive, it does not complete those commitments with which it has just committed itself. We want, precisely, the opposite: to guarantee rights and freedoms for everyone, to be a state, a Catalan republic to put it in the service of the citizenry. And we want to do it democratically, and that's also calling for consensus, self-determination and amnesty. And, on the other hand, we don't know which proposal the State has for us, beyond the incompliments. So, Counselor, we know it's all very complicated. We also appreciate and recognize the work done this first year, but the encouragement to continue working – there are still pending – and to continue to maintain an attitude, if necessary, even firmer before this Spanish State, and above all leading these country consensuss that must bring us to a state, to a Catalan republic of rights and freedoms for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.172.0	It has the word, in the turn of the reply, Councilwoman Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.173.0	Thank you, President. Well, Congresswoman, as you know, I am also responsible for Public Service, and, therefore, for the most important activity of the Generality, which is, therefore, its human resources. And to say that, in this sense, we have also reached agreement at the Civil Service Bureau on measures for conciliation, but also in this process of ending the temporality, which at these times is over forty_per_cent, to the Generality. And, therefore, a unanimous agreement in the Bureau, which is obviously very relevant. Also... responsible for the interlocution with the local world. And in this sense, so, you said, the law of local governments. We want to open the apple of talking about competitions, finance and all those questions that affect the local world. Other Members and other groups have also called for this, but theirs too, and therefore we will work intensively here. Also the law of the state of rural people, to make it more balanced, rebalanced, this country, and, obviously, to promote repopulation. But bilaterality also with the big municipalities: with Barcelona, which we have already held two intense and important sessions; with the Hospitallet, with Terrassa, with Badia del Vallès, for its idiosyncrasy. Therefore, work intensively with the joints, local councils and all the other locals. For example, today... remember that it's two-hundred years of Catalan parliaments and we'll do an act to remember it. For another band, the political conflict with the State – I announced it earlier. I would like to remind you that, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we started from a situation of sugar to the political fate of the conflict, with an abandonment of bilateral relations, as you know, and because of the obstinacy of this government, which we are working intensively, so we have resumed them again. I have to tell you, the balance isn't positive, it's minus. And, in this sense, neither the meeting of the bilateral commission nor the infrastructure nor the economic and financial issues are giving the results we want. Neither the execution of the premise – this House has spoken. An execution of the premise that clearly goes to the detriment of the citizenry, and probably the most vulnerable, that can use a public transport that at this time does not, in short, have competitiveness with other vehicles, and that makes Barcelona have a situation of col·lapse – or other metropolitan cities. So here we are, working in this sense. And it is that the central government needs, if I may say, let's say, in a global way, to put the piles on this question, to invest in infrastructure in Catalonia. The negotiation must give tangible results. The Government of the State cannot escape its obligations with Catalonia. Also, as you said yourself, resolve the difficult crisis of trust in relation to espionage to Catalan independence. And, therefore, the government of the PSOE has to recognize..., recognized in its moment a political conflict, and that was a good way to approach it. He recognized that it was necessary to act in the de-judicialization of the conflict, and he agreed on a space to discuss the resolution of this conflict. We clearly knew what our proposal was and what it was: amnesty and self-determination. But, as you yourself said, we still don't know the state government's proposal. Therefore, we reaffirm ourselves in the bet of negotiation and agreement, but the lack of transparency, of taking responsibility, of guarantees that do not go back to espionage about the independence movement, is obvious to question the negotiation process and the real willingness of the Government to address the resolution of the political conflict. We're where we've always been, next to people. Therefore, empty words, proclamations without state content, do not serve us. The work, the Catalan government is doing it, complementing the commitments to the citizenry, implementing our assumption, always doing whatever it takes. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether the Government of the State is complete with citizenship. And this government's answer is clear: there are no complete commitments at this time. Therefore, we will work intensively to reverse this situation, because I deserve the citizenship of Catalonia and we deserve it, therefore, for respect to this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.174.0	Right now. [[Decree-Law No 5/2022 of 17 May on urgent measures to help deal with the effects of the war between Ukraine and Catalonia and the updating of certain measures adopted during the covid's pandemic-19]] [[203-00023/13]] Let's move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2022 of 17 May of urgent measures to help deal with the effects of the war between Ukraine and Catalonia and the updating of certain measures taken during the pandemic of covid-19. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the President's Counsellor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. The word has the counselor Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.175.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies... Compare today to ask for the vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 5/2022 of 17 May of urgent measures to help deal with the effects of the war between Ukraine and Catalonia and update certain measures taken during the pandemic of the covid-19. On this occasion, and as many others, I do it as the Councillor of the Presidency, where our job is coordination, sewing and bridge between the different councils of the Government, with the aim of being the most useful to the citizens of Catalonia, to entities, joint ventures, businesses, all agents. And that's what I want to talk about. Miri, a few days ago I visited Torrefarrera, a city of four kilometers_quadrats... – to, forgive, forgive –, four kilometers from Lleida [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] , not up to five thousand inhabitants. One of the people's pastries was guarded the year with Master Pastisser recognition, and I had the opportunity to talk to two Germans, the ones who run the business, in Carles and Joaquim Ribes. And what did they explain to me? So surely some circumstances that I'm sure resonate them: increase in the prices of electricity, gas, estimated at fifteen_thousand euros in one year; raise of the price of flour – a few cents every fifteen days – ; raise of the price of the cart with which they jam their products. And that, in addition to the effects they've had since the pandemic's beginnings, circumstances that made many years that they didn't live. In fact, surely the youngest people of this chamber cannot remember an inflationary situation like that seen by Catalonia, where they arrive to bid up to 9.5 a year for the other. Thus, an out-of-pocket inflation, which cannot be passed on to the prices of the products. For another band, the country's assemblies are also painted, and a lot. Sub-administrations do not arrive in front of the workers they have on the march. And this, in practice, means desert contests, because the sub-administrations have faced fifty_per_cent in some cases, they are forced to bid again at a price twice as many cars. And all that, I'm juggling about to meet the deadlines so I don't lose the different help. In the case of the Generality, we have already announced an extension of the PUOSC 2021-2022 precisely to deal with this situation. Let me also tell you that before this political stage, as I said before, he worked in the social camp, in the Ampans foundation, which gives tools, support, opportunities to people with intellectual disabilities affected by mental health or large vulnerable people. And I have to say that those years have served me to see that this social motxilla of the 2008 crisis has not yet been overcome, and the social needs, the need for support, had grown alarmingly. Obviously, the Generality had to give an answer, and the answer was, therefore, to deal with very raw situations. And, for the more resources that the Generality has put in there – also, obviously, I don't want to forget about the assemblies of this country, regional councils and other administrations, not to say – the needy have always exceeded the resources available, and that's dramatic. Therefore, we are very aware that we continue to live in a situation of very important social need. And all this the Generality faces without having all the tools. That's why, too, we want to be a state, to have all the tools and resources to deal with crisis situations like we live in. Crises linked to the war in Ukraine. A conflict that, beyond the economic repercussions – that we will obviously be talking about today, of this – has some hard effects on people directly affected or fleeing the war. A war that makes four_months ago that leaves victims civilians and hundreds of refugees, many of them at our home; in fact, more than twenty_ thousand people, many of them underage. Given the experience experienced during the covid-19 pandemic, what we had to do with the Catalan government, reacting to an emergency situation that arose with the promulgation of different decrees, on this occasion we wanted to make an effort to bring all the measures together in a single rule. In the face of a society recovering from the different onades of the pandemic of covid-19, taking into account the evolution of this latest event, it has also taken advantage of it to leave no effects taken urgently during the pandemic affecting the rights of the citizenry in order to facilitate the adoption of other measures, in case of similar situations. But, as I said, we do the work. And here, in this defined context, I will expose who are the main regulations with regard to this decree that we are bringing to validation today. On one side, on energy issues, in the economic and climate-emergency fields, and on which they were commented, the increase in energy prices, it should be borne in mind that the Royal Decree of the State of 6/2022, of 29 March, for which urgent measures are taken in the framework of the national plan to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war, simplified, simplified the procedure for authorizing generation projects by means of renewable energies, in this case of the competence of the General Administration of the State. In view of this simplification, it is urgent to simplify the generality's authorisation procedure, which allows us to be more flexible in promoting renewable energies. Thus, Article 1 regulates agility measures in the procedure relating to renewable energy projects. It is declared urgent, for reasons of public interest, the procedures for the authorisation of generation projects involving renewable energies of power equal to or less than five megawatts. Article 2 regulates flexibility measures for the implementation of solar photovoltaic plants in agriculture and forestry. We know we have to go further. We know that this decree does not end and that we must continue to work, obviously, to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels. We continue to work with parliamentary groups that are in this line and therefore want to act decisively in this energy transition. And so we do, and so did Councilwoman Jordan. For refugee people, the crisis resulting from this conflict is obviously an emergence from the point of view of the affect of these people. And, as long as we do not forget that there can be significant flows of refugees and refugees to Catalonia beyond what we currently have, civil protection is an essential area for responding to this crisis. As a result, we have established on a regular basis that self-protection obligations will not apply to installations and to the temporary space that deals with the uses intended for the care of the affected population for an emergency, thus facilitating attention and rapidity, therefore, to these people. The possibility to activate municipal protection plans will be incorporated into scenes of migration crises and lack of administration of basic services. On the other hand, the war, as we have said, has produced, therefore, an influx of displaced persons from this country, among which there is a large number of unaccompanied minors who must obviously be objected to the protection it touches. In this context, we provide for protective measures for infants and young people. Measures are also being taken to support persons and families in a vulnerable situation that is economically vulnerable because of their connection with persons displaced by the war crisis. In this sense, article 7 adds two new social benefits of economic character; concretely, the precautionary measure of temporary custody in extended or alien families, and the protective guard, mediating the combination, for a person or a family. Articles 8 and 9 also incorporate the change in the percentages of Catalonia's sufficiency income indicator to ensure the recognition of a single parent family, as well as the updating of this index annually to the law of assumptions applicable to the provision of a single parent's pension. It is also intended to facilitate the provision of housing for the most vulnerable, as well as the collection of refugees. In this framework, all habitat capture instruments are urgently strengthened by public administrations. The explicit inclusion of refugees as potential beneficiaries of the cessation of housing programme to the Administration is envisaged. The offer of housing available for refugees with a focus on overcoming the storm inherent in the first-accollidation centres was also expanded. In this sense, this is a measure that a great many people would ask of us, but also the country's assemblies, and we believe, from the corresponding department, that it is absolutely necessary to push it forward. On the other hand, in relation to measures for the covid in the field of health, the clinical impact lower today makes us address the pandemic in a different way. And we often say that there are aspects that have come to stay, such as, for example, agile the impact of the pandemic maintained, regulating the electronic receipt or the telematic processing of pharmaceutical services by the Catalan Health Service, and also the management of health residues. These are two important examples that seem to us to have to be maintained for the simplification and implementation of the electronic administration that they mean. And finally, we also regulate certain health care activities in residential centres, with the aim of ensuring the safety of resident persons as well as more vulnerable health care persons and to minimise the entry of the virus into these centres. All in all, we are convinced that... obviously, it could always go further if we had more resources, but in any case, it is a substantial adventure to face this emergence. And, therefore, they ask for the vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.176.0	The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position, and this return will be a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the MP Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.177.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members... I would like to begin with a thank you to all the Socialist Parliamentary Group companies with whom we have jointly prepared our position on this decree. And I would like to begin by making some preliminary considerations before entering into the matter of the different areas that govern this decree. Surely we agree, he will advise, that the most reasonable thing in Catalan institutions is that it is working with a certain order. And from this point of view, we would prefer to move forward with solid sources, instead of doing so with generalist decrees that update, as I say, some measures taken during the pandemic and do not incorporate any more into the effects of the war. Notwithstanding this, we understand that circumstances are exceptional in response to a war. But, also taking this into account, it is necessary to comment that, in fact, more than a hundred days ago the iniquitous of this unjust war. The responses of the European Union and the Government of Spain were firm, united and swift. The execution approved the plan against the impact of the war, which had help for families, workers, displaced people, also help the economic and business fabric, and actions in the field of transport, energy and cybersecurity. Despite the importance of that moment, Junts and Esquerra voted against it, even though there were 6,000 million euros in direct aid and tax reductions, such as fuel, and 10,000 million euros under ICO. I also think it would be good if I reconsidered, as in the least, with regard to the benefit of the conjunction of Catalan citizenship, when this question came to the Congress of Deputies on its behalf. And one last consideration. The president of our parliamentary group sent the president of the Generality a response plan for the economic and social impact of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. We were going to do it with the utmost rigor and with the highest celerity. Twenty-five measures, twenty-five short-term and structural actions. And they spent the days, and they spent the weeks: two meetings, a compromise table of economic and social agents, but we didn't get any response from the government, nor did we build this table. And I say to him – and there is with the greatest cordiality – that it does not seem to us that this is the best way to build consensus or work with the party with the greatest representation in Catalonia. In any case, our parliamentary group does not bar, does not condition non-relational votes, nor does it give up being an active part of an issue as important as the deployment of renewable energies to Catalonia. And say renewables because it seems to me to be one of the aspects that we want to deepen on the regulation of this decree. And in this sense, I have to tell you that we hoped for more resorted or ambitious measures to eliminate external dependence and mitigate the effects of geostrategic energy-related conflicts, which, unfortunately, are more frequent and more intense every time. It is time for the Government of Catalonia to raise the barriers that prevent deployment and agile the transformation of the energy model in Catalonia. And, as is often the case with neutral or external views, I would like to quote the study of the energy transition to Catalonia of the College of Industrial Engineers. Above a clear conclusion: "If there are no radical changes, let's go to a failed and fail to fulfil the obligations we have with the compromise to decarbonize the Catalan economy. And I read it literally. And, besides, there are some facts that corroborate these words that, of course, concern us all. If we look at the percentage of coverage of electricity demand in Catalonia with renewable sources, at these times we are at twenty_per_cent, including imported energy, because, if not, we would be at fifteen; the rest of Spain, a 54,6. A came to Catalonia, a 54,6 to the rest of Espanya. The end of Catalonia was already twenty points, but in these four years it has increased to thirty-five points. The hidden moratoria, the slowness, the lack of resources destined for the change, cause the companies to group projects to process them with the ministry. The latest announcement, that of the Norwegian public electric company Statkraft, was first presented on September 2020 to the demand of renewable energy in Catalonia, but the lack of response led them to group projects of five wind farms and go to the ministry. We want to take responsibility from Catalonia and give clear answers, because the result of this paralysis is that currently the Generalitat so only handles the thirteen per cent of the new renewable capacity in Catalonia. The rest, the eighty-set_per_cent, is subsidizing the ministry. Or these more than a thousand megawatts that the councilwoman is talking about..., the ministry is not running seven_thousand – seven times more. As a result, I want them to reflect on the ambition that Catalonia can have and must respect energy and green growth policies. Firstly, it should apply immediately and generally the recommendations arising from the RePower Europe plan presented by the European Commission because of the urgent need to speed up the energy transition to Europe and reduce the energy dependence of third parties, especially Russian gas. What? This document, RePower Europe, establishes that renewable energies are of primary public interest and describes mechanisms to simplify and accelerate the authorisation of renewable energies. The reality in Catalonia is that this effort to simplify, as well as technical human resources, is lacking to agile these projects. And that's why we're proposing that you reconsider it, consider it. In this decree they have chosen to speed up the processing of smaller solar and wind projects, up to five megawatts – you seem to be – but it must be borne in mind that this class of projects represents only 450 megawatts of those who are waiting for approval. And that, finally, is a very small part of the twelve thousand megawatts we need. From our point of view, it would be hot to expand these simplification processes up to 50 megawatts to achieve a real impact on the acceleration of renewables. It is also necessary to have a strong position regarding the MidCat. There are different views from your government in this, too, on this issue. And that is why we insist on the importance of having a clear policy on this issue. Or on the green hydrogen, or on the reinforcement of renewable supply chains, and that's why you haven't made any of it. Therefore, from our point of view, this distance is a timid mass of thought from the new decree of renewables approved only six months ago, and it is also a missed opportunity to incorporate these measures of the RePower Europe in Catalonia and agile these renewable projects, expanding the supply of the measures taken in the parks up to fifty megawatts. As far as the social sphere is concerned. In the field of support for families, we value positively the incorporation into the law of social benefits, economic support to families that acquit a person, a family in protective custody. Now, throughout the entire decree, we see that there is something that refers to when we talk about benefits or housing, which is its relation to the index of income of sufficiency. And the government has frozen this index in Catalonia since 2010. After a global crisis, after a pandemic, you, not updating this index, condemn more people to social exclusion. The Government of Spain did; you didn't. We agree with the transitional arrangement as follows, it is proposed that the 15 % increase in the vital minimum income made for the Government of the State as a measure to address the consequences of high inflation in the most vulnerable collections is not accounted for as input for the calculation of other services. Now, we have found more just to increase guaranteed income, as the Spanish Government has done with vital minimum income. But no, neither the index nor the guaranteed income, two cabal elements to fight against inequalities in Catalonia. In relation to health, we share the regulation of organizational and processing measures that had a temporary character during the pandemic, that have had good results and that are now consolidated. We also share the return of residences, quite broadly, to the Department of Social Rights, with all its competitions. We take it, we're part of it. Now, it is obvious that we also need to address what the model looks like with the new social and health agency. We are waiting for his creation, and, as you know, he has also been able to use this decree to consolidate some more measures on this issue. And, in the third block of the health field, the economic package, there are derogations from all sectors less than the health sector, where the final provision according to it extends until 31 December 2022. Maintaining this is justified by the epidemiological situation. We may agree, but we wouldn't want to perpetuate this privileged situation for private sanitation. With regard to the civil protection plans and to the three questions they raise, there is a strong agreement. And, therefore, and finally, not diverging from the modifications that you propose to us, we do think that the renewable energy resource could be clearly more ambitious, and our group could abstain from this decree if we have a clear commitment to incorporate this line of work with our parliamentary group in order to speed up all these journeys in parks up to fifty megawatts, and a clear bet for the energy transition in our country, not only in terms of climate action, but also economic opportunities for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.178.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.179.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. It is undeniable that the illegal, immoral and unacceptable Russian invasion of Ukraine is directly affecting Spain. The war was leading to the displacement of millions of refugees, especially women, minors and the elderly, which had a clear economic and social impact. Public administrations have to react in a coordinated way, and the decent and correct thing is to respond with solidarity to the humanitarian emergency, and there can be no partisan debate about this. It is also true that the Russian invasion is contributing to the exacerbation of important macroeconomic and social imbalances in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, imbalances that we have been dragging for a long time. Of course, war influences the energy market and trade flows and the growth of our economy, but it is not the only cause of our problems. To some it seems very good the pretext of the war of Ukraine to make up its unfortunate, irresponsible and frivolous management. Moreover, I would say that the war has brought to light the shames, the excess of progressive dogmatism and the lack of wisdom that we have been dragging. Now many people are realizing many of the vulnerabilities that VOX has been pointing out for years. Some examples: the enormous energy dependence of our nation; the crazy and very fast energy transition, which puts at risk the prosperity and work of thousands of families; the need to help our farmers and farmers to strengthen Spanish food sovereignty – much more so than the one that comes to us – ; that the Spaniards have to ensure our own interests and not give sovereignty to European elites and presidents of multinationals who have not chosen anyone; that we have to reverse the profound and grave deindustrialisation that we have accumulated over the past few years; that we have to strengthen our security, our borders and our national defence, among other issues. But it is also very important one thing that we have already put on the table on many occasions: the need to clean up the accounts to deal with unforeseen events. Increasing public debt without limit..., making money as churros, therefore, generates inflation, is now seeing it all, and we must start, of course, to cut unnecessary political spending to meet people's needs. From last year to here, he read the other day, according to the Banco de España, has grown in almost 4,000_million euros the Catalan public debt. He says: "No, it's that we do this, we've paid that... It's that, of course, it's 4,000_million euros more debt. That is not responsible, let alone the one we are faced with in economic and social terms. So, Mrs. Counselor, then... you know, you've detailed it in your speech, we're entering..., or we're, I don't know, the umpteenth social, energy, food crisis, which will have very serious consequences for thousands of families. You said it: inflation out of hand, didn't you? , almost above eight percent. Taxes, tops. Interest rates are already growing continuously; this is already threatening many families with mortgages at variable rates. And all this is destroying the purchasing power of families. And, then, does the decree law you bring us here today forcefully face this desolating panorama, from my point of view? Well, no. That is why we cannot endorse this decree, because it does not lower taxes, nor is there any concrete measures to alleviate energy poverty, nor does it reduce superfluous political spending, nor does it anticipate the hypothetical and increasingly cuddled by experts interrupting basic food in Europe and also in Spain; nor does it lift Damocles' sword on nuclear energy, which, as they said before, covers half of Catalonia's energy demand, nor does it take economic contingency measures in the face of the escalation of interest rates. Therefore, it seems to us a simple decree, with very few measures, that very little will help to correct the current economic and social panorama of Catalonia. We miss many measures that are at the root, those based on these elements to which I referred a few minutes ago, right? Therefore, it is not a decree that satisfies us. VOX doesn't like it. This decree could have gone much more... is it a little more complete than the last one that brought us, which was of a folly? Yes – yes. Is that enough? No, huh? And, with regard to the main measures, I would like to make some comments, wouldn't I? We think it is good to speed up the rules for self-consumption in small renewable projects, but I think they have again missed a good opportunity to lighten procedures so that large renewable energy parks can also be installed in Catalonia, right? Limiting this reduction in red tape to five mega and this agility – alleged agility – of permits seems to us to be scarce. We have said this on many occasions: we cannot give up any source of energy – really, no – but I think we should start thinking big. Some projects larger than five megas can be interesting, especially if your plan is to end nuclear power. You say you want to shut down nuclear power in the 30's and they're authorizing parks of five. For what I know, we have to fill Catalonia with hundreds and hundreds or thousands of small parks of five to try to make up for that plan of yours, but it's not square, it's not smart, it's not reasonable. A private company would not do so; therefore, there we think they are wrong. We also think that they are wrong to put aside the communities of regents who threaten the watering grounds. They are providing incentives for many potential agricultural landowners to choose to use them for small renewable facilities. They put aside, Mrs. Counselor, I was saying..., the sentence began like this: they put aside the regents and threaten the land of irrigation. We think it is compatible..., it must be compatible to boost photovoltaics, renewables, with maintaining our agricultural potential, and more with the threats of food sovereignty to which it previously referred. Also – and this seems serious to us – we find it serious that they try to take advantage of this decree to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine and the covid to practically change the law of the right to housing. Man, I think this issue deserves a separate debate. It's a powerful enough theme. It's a matter, man, that I think you deserve more than putting in this legislative change of cover and changing a little... in short, substantially changing the law, the law of the right to housing. It's a mistake and it's a political cuddle. And this has to be done better, frankly; do not take advantage of the fact that we are talking about energy, renewables, support for families who welcome people from Ukraine to change the housing law. It's a little too much, huh? I think they skated here. And I'll tell you one thing: we're worried. Why are we concerned? Because every time they try to legislate on housing, it's gonna get worse. In addition to making many illegal decisions and being systematically affected by the Constitutional Court, they are achieving the results that are contrary to what they seek: rents are increasing; the price of housing is being fired; there is no social housing that we see for the moment. « No, they're five-year plans... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but for now, no. So, frankly, it's a cacicada to change that piece of law – if I may say so – in this decree. It's politically treacherous. And I'm done. We are grateful that they have finally rectified, put thread on the needle so that..., that they approve benefits for the reception of Ukrainian foster children, for families who temporarily welcome children who have fled the war of Ukraine. And we see that as positive, huh? We don't see everything negative. Yes, it's true that even a broken clock is right twice a day to give the time, and you know what to do with broken clocks, don't you? They can't be fixed anymore, they don't have an arrangement anymore. In the end, what people normally do is throw them in the trash, which is what we would have to do with this government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.180.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.181.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good With shoes and shoes in the excuse of urgency for the war in Ukraine, you have added to us a decree of the same deceptive, with some waxers, yes, but also with many omissions and a few goals for the rucksack. We are not the first time we have said this: one thing is to resort to a decree when there is no more reason to attend to one urgency and the other is to make it the norm, the usual way of doing this government and this Parliament. This is a little respectful formula with participation, with parliamentary participation rights, and it can't be abused, and this government can't abuse it. And that's the advance we're going to vote against. You are putting us here with a decree that pushes legislative changes to address issues of social rights, sanitation, civil protection, housing and renewable energy. They take advantage of different legislative needs that do not have anything to do with each other and barrage them in a poti-pot where you can find, yes, good news, such as the amendment of Law 18/2007, from right to habitat, amend article 3 on empty habitat, which no longer includes those exceptions from the rural environment. It's a better thing that we don't just agree, but that we also defended him in this hemicicle. But there's bad news, too, isn't there? , as the nine amendments to the decree of renewables, unacceptable, girls without any type of consensus work, no work with the participation of the territory, something to which they already have us accustomed and which, obviously, we cannot accept. Some of these amendments to the renewables decree, of course, have a difficult, confusing interpretation, which, as always, open the door to public-private concertation and leave a lot of questions. Now I'm going into the detail. First, let's talk a moment about the excuse that you have made to include these changes in the decree of renewables, and that is the effect of the war, of the war of Ukraine. You see, you say that this, uh, the pull of energy prices. But it's just that you know perfectly well that this electricity price boost has been going on for a long time. June 2021, just a year ago... then we said that we were coming... that the electricity price had reached its highest historical level. So it was 94.63 euros the megawatt. I had passed it, the same year's genera, the price I got for the temporary Filomena. You see, the war started on the fever of the 22nd. So the motive is no excuse. It is true that we have good news, in all the changes you make to the renewables decree. Article 1.1, there's a lot of agreement, you know. We have defended it since the first day, that it can make it easier for renewable energy generation projects of power equal to or less than five megawatts to make it easier. Okay, so apply emergency character to it. But bluntly against '1.2, because it's an aberrant modification. The amendment to Article 18.1 of Decree 16/2019..., which now says that the body competent in the matter of energy will have to authorize the construction of projects even though the urban organ has not been pronounced. He says he'll say it later, but imagine what happens if, when the project is already out, when the promoter has already put it out, he starts building without this urban permit, after Urbanism the grave? What's going to happen? Indemnity "to the chant. And to the pressure band that this supposes about the urbanist organ that has to decide. There is also another point: you have deleted the f letter from Article 9.1 of this Decree 16/2019, which did not allow photovoltaic installation in regadiu spaces. What do you say? In other words, flexibility measures for the implantation of solar photovoltaic plants in agriculture and forestry. So, the protection of land, agricultural production, we stay? Another time, for the back door they have modified laws to adapt them to the tastes and needs of the promoters of the great projects, while maintaining that social dialogue table that has no influence on the massive and intense deployment model that you, as in government, are facilitating. So far, everything you have to see with renewables, which, of course, the excuse is energy sovereignty and we haven't seen a single point in the public energy. Another reason for this decree is to repeal aspects that were already legitimized by the urgency of the pandemic. And here we find, at the health level, with an article 3, with which we can fully agree, on the electronic receipt, but then we have an article 4 and an article 5 which, frankly – sincerely – open a huge door to actions without any type of precision. And we are concerned, because here it is not dull if when they speak of "strengthening" they refer to what they have done so far – mostly it has been closed down to services and centers. And for what it does to residents, then, understand that it creates a lot of mistrust for us to let them have their hands free, all the skills to do and defuse in such an open way. The truth is that this decree generally generates disappointment, because... not just to salvation, huh? – and I'll talk about the omissions you have regarding public service. You at the motius presentation really open up many expectations, and then these expectations are not, in the joint. I'll give them an example. One of the paragraphs of the motius presentation in the first part says: "The arrival of refugees involves the mobilization of emergency resources and an increase in the number of people who use public services, who must have the capacity to react, adapt and coordinate in order to be able to give an effective response to their needs, with special attention to the protection of the children. And on the third part of the motius presentation, you insist that we strengthen the care structures and public salvation as necessary. But what do we find? Because you already know that in strengthening public services you will always find us on the side, because we defend one hundred_per_cent public services, but this decree does not talk about public services, nor about strengthening the primary, nor about pediatrics – we are talking about promoting the childhood that comes from Ukraine, we are not talking about pediatrics. In order not to speak, he does not speak of education, nor does he speak of the reading, nor does he speak of the access to the language, nor does he speak of the plans of municipal gathering. Well, that's all there is to it, isn't it? Let's move on to habitation. I've already said before, we celebrate the change with respect to the empty habitats, but the rest of it..., especially relevant measure, all of this same usual march, to point out the private initiative. It is an initiative to bring about a substantial change in the very serious situation of housing crisis in which we are subsumed in this country, we are immersed in this crisis. It seems that they are not aware of the magnitude and the effects it has on most of the people's lives this difficult housing situation. The months of housing emergence are more than two years from the waiting list; we can't find anything here that I have to see. Let's talk about social rights. Even all that would be good news, such as the recognition of mono-marentalytty, is again subsumed in this magma of bureaucratic operation in which vulnerability must always be shown to pass through a network of difficulties that stigmatize the person asking, placing it in a role of inferiority, in a situation of inferiority and arbitrariness that dehumanizes the poor and does not fill this structural character. Obviously, I can't finish commenting on all the articles the law has – I'm running out of time – and I'll end up with what's most essential in the criticism of this decree. We have already said this at other times – and it has been said so often – this sharp comparison of what has been done to some refugees and has not been done to others – the most recent, from Afghanistan and Syria – this latent institutional racism that marks the political agenda. And what I want to say here is that we don't need the excuse that it's the State that marks quotas, it's the State that decides which refugee people respect and which abuse. We find ourselves missing a political bet closer to the mark that the state imposes. We find ourselves lacking a determined will to fight inequality and force the limit. For us, confrontation with the State and forcing the limits of autonomy pass through this roundabout bet, which includes, in the defence of the Catalan Republic and independence, which leaves no one behind – and I conclude, President – self-determination also in matters as central as politics towards refugees. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President. As far as we are concerned, we oppose the ways of the State, its foreign law, its deadly border policy, its connivance with arms trade, its structural militarism, its support for the corrupt monarchy, a direct accomplice to armamentism. Against the war, for a correct welcome and a recovery of the good public services, today we are voting against this decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.182.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.183.0	Well, good afternoon. I would like to begin by giving solidarity to the veins and veins of Torrefarrera, all our solidarity and support. It is a great pity that the Vice-President's visit is taking place, that she really detects the problems of concern for energy prices... that, obviously, this is the last of the poor who settles when the prices rise, but life, wages are maintained, and that after the Vice-President returned to Barcelona, to the head and to the couple, and it is not possible, in the decree, to incorporate direct measures that stem this logic of impoverishment and of bad conditions of life and creation of wealth that will occur in this country as a result of the economic effects that the war in Ukraine is causing. Therefore, my solidarity, because we have not been able to give concrete answers to concrete people who have concrete problems arising from the poor economic and social situation resulting from the war in the world. I, when I wanted to analyze, and together with the whole group, the decree this..., we took over the decree of the law for a song, we took over the economic report that has taken place since Action on the economic impact of the Ukrainian war in Catalonia, and we also took over the economic memory in relation to the decree of the government. The first surprise is that the economic memory has four fulls. It seemed to me, from the outset, so little economic memory for a decree that is urgent and to deal with the effects of the war. But also, relating the decree to the Action Report, I have also seen some contradictions. The decree talks about urgent measures, talks about dealing with the effects of the war and talks about updating the measures of the covid. That's what you tell us, in the title, that you want to make this decree law. Action's economic report talks about an increase in food prices, an increase in fuel prices, an inflationary spiral, a loss of purchasing power..., and all this ends up placing it in the effects it has on economic activity, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and a negative economic perspective that situates the economic report; negative from the point of view of the economic structure, and negative from the point of view of people. And I take the economic memory and I see that all these urgent measures to deal with the effects and update the measures are concrete in 1_million_i_mig of euros; 1_million_i_mig of euros intended solely and exclusively in the area of protection of children and young people, because in relation to people and families in a situation of economic vulnerability, housing, civil protection, health, culture, economic activity, social services and care for children and adolescents, and in order to cope with the emergence of the climate change by mitigating the impulse of renewable energies, says that it has no economic cost to the Catalan administration. Well, I felt a little deceemed, because I see they're talking about urgent measures when we're already wearing four_months – so urgency is not seen – and it's talking about pale effects. And the direct effects on people are not palpable, but neither are the changes in strategies that allow us to position ourselves better in relation to the effects that will still come worse, possibly after this time. It seems more like a transit order, because there are no direct measures that reach people, that reach sectors that are not patenting the consequences. It is true that he talks to us about many things, but the things he talks to us about are simply about dealings, administrative procedures, and even transferring to municipal administrations that are easier to do things, but after they have to take over, municipal administrations, the costs of these things that they can or want to do, or need to do, because they don't transfer resources to do things that make it easier for them to do more quickly. Therefore, we believe that it is not only a decree that is insufficient, but that it is not valid for the measures it should take, because it neglects people, and especially the most vulnerable people who are the ones who are the most patenting. But it's no longer just the content of the decree. It is also that at the end of the decree there are two visions, two ways of political making and two ways of addressing the economic future or the economic model of Catalonia. And we believe that these are also difficult questions, because politically this decree that is up here in Parliament is without social dialogue or political dialogue. No measures have been built to deal with a complicated, complex, negative situation for people and the country, and this has not been built from the political consensus. Two meetings have been held, we have put forward proposals on the table. There was no negotiation with political groups that built a decree that could be validated by everyone, or by most. But it's not like it happened to economic and social agents either. Nor has an agreement been built with business associations or employers' associations and trade union organisations that allow responses to be given. There is no social or political agreement. There is no social or political dialogue. And that, politically, I think it's not good for the country, to approach reptes, crises like these, without building consensus, without addressing the dialog. But also worrying, economically. It does not advance in the definition of an economic model that today needs to change, a product model that needs to change, an energy model, a mobility model. We have to change many things to face the challenges that will come after the circumstances that we are living in the world and in our country in concrete terms, don't we? And, therefore, I'm telling you, this decree. And I hear each other, because we have proposals and because we have put them on the table; we have put forward clear, concrete proposals that come directly to people who have problems. We have put questions in relation to transport, because we wanted to talk about transport; because we can adapt the tariffs, because we can approach a new model of mobility, which is not only more sustainable, but it makes us more independent or more energetically superior, which allows our trade balance to improve, because we depend less on fossil fuels. A new model of mobility from giving direct help to people, who can move cheaper at a time when the famine of life is affecting them and negatively impacting them. We have put in place the possibility of an energy policy, not only to approach the energy model change, but also to provide direct help to some people who are today paying more for energy costs. We can study it, we can negotiate it, we can put it into practice. And we have placed the guaranteed income of citizenship as a response that should give – they are the most vulnerable sectors of society– ; a guaranteed income of citizenship located at 641_euros per month– 641_euros per cent – with a mid-term inflation of the new and fall to Catalonia, of which fourteen_per_cent impacts less than thirty_ thousand_euros in higher returns. And guaranteed income, we don't touch it. And now it was time to touch it, because making them more vulnerable is when they need to update their purchasing ability to maintain a level of consumption worthy of quality of life. But not only to maintain this, but also to maintain the domestic demand of the country over which economic activity is generated. And, of course, if inflation increases, the citizenry loses purchasing power and stops pushing demand, economic activity gets bogged down. If we do not act directly now with direct aid to citizens and sectors, aggregate demand will suffer. And when the aggregate demand suffers, the deflationary spiral and the depressing spiral of the economy will continue. Therefore, we had proposals that allowed us to improve, that we wanted to negotiate them, that we had improved this decree and that we could have had a direct impact on the problems we had. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that; it wasn't possible. I think the government has preferred not to negotiate. I believe that even the whole government prefers forbearance from the PSC, even though it is simply declared the intercancer that they can do, that it does not try to negotiate with us and with whomever it wants, to make concrete measures that reach the concrete people that have concrete problems and that today we have to solve because they go to them the quality of life, and to the country, the general situation. Therefore, this decree has come down to us, it has come down to us not wanting to talk, and we will vote no; we will vote no, unfortunately. And we will vote no, because we are more than Damaris Gelabert; as everyone knows, a Catalan poet and music that... we are more than that, right? , because if you had the magic of a mag, / of the balls would make flowers, / of spindles, trombones and beans, / and of the trunks, poems of love. // If you had the magic of a mag, / would you like to blat, / cannons, prismatic gegants, / and tanks, ice cream trucks. // If you had the magic of a mag, / of the soldiers, it would make clowns, / of the lieutenants, ocells of paper, / dancers or castlers. // If you had the magic of a mag, / of the mines would do damage, / of bombs, juggling games, / and of the ravens, pigeons of the pau. Because it was possible to continue the magic of a magician of social and political negotiation, from the construction of an agreement, from the political will necessary, to give concrete answers to the difficult problems that are causing us a war, obviously unfair, but that we could pale the magic of a magician of public power, from the ability to build agreements that give concrete answers. Unfortunately, it has not been possible and we will vote no. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.184.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.185.0	Counselor, deputies, deputies... Mr Gallego always does the same: he ends up with a poem. And I'm not ready, I'm not at the level. And the truth is, I'm gonna start planting from then on. The only one, that in the end we will end up here with a species of unbearable floral games, in many cases – in my case at least – that I think we don't deserve each other. Well, let's go to the decree, 'cause that's a good part of what you said. I believe that we are sinning to use the Ukrainian conflict, many times, to donate and include legislative changes that I believe many times are not even just thought to deal with the situation that caused us the terrible invasion of Russia into Ukraine. There's a part... this decree is not an example. There's a part to this decree that shows us. There is one part that yes, that, in fact, goes directly, therefore, addressed to refugees, that we could discuss if it is enough, but as at least there is a willingness that it is so. And then they bring us here other initiations in the form of a decree, which – in addition to the criticisms made by other groups – use practically massively and in the form, many times, practically, of the accompanying law or of the omnibus law or as I say, summarizing, introducing measures that have nothing to do with each other. Because, frankly, he will advise, so, for example, all the measures that they have to do with salvation and the elimination of the specific situations that existed during the pandemic of the covid, so it could have been introduced at any other time and not in this decree, which is really very complicated to take. And, of course, the decrees in the end must also be justified. I remind you that it is not a legislative formula that must not be justified; it must be justified because it is a decree and the urgency must be explained. And, of course, when an escort is urgently needed to implement renewable policies, which we carry for years without knowing it in Catalonia; so yes, it is urgent; it is urgent for years ago, yes – it is urgent for years ago – to make alternative energy policies, which is one of the parts that you introduce into this decree. Because this decree, in the end, I think it speaks of two themes of intense and profound importance of the different governments of the Generality in Catalonia during the last two years, and one is energy, and another is housing. Now it seems we're in a hurry to legislate. The first part – it has already been said, and I repeat again –: there have been no renewable energy policies in Catalonia. But it is also, at the same time, still talking about the elimination of nuclear energy, which is at present the only stable energy that gives us the ability, as at least, to be able to light the light at home and not to increase the prices incredibly among the citizens in Catalonia. If the only thing we're asking is that we're still real; if we don't have alternatives, if we haven't built them, because they haven't done it, because it's a clear-cut story, if it hasn't done the last two years, they're asking that we don't have a decree like this right now. There has to be a debate or a debate, and in this case, I don't think it's happening. Therefore, history and inopérance about energy; history and inopérance in housing policies. Because there was no housing policy in Catalonia either, because there were others, yes, priorities. When speaking, in other legislatures that we have dissociatedly to live, of other priorities, of much higher political intentions than to give answer to the reality and real problems of the citizens of Catalonia, you, meanwhile..., while leaving or continuing or speaking only of the process and of some of the concepts that still continue here wandering as lost in the ocean, such as the Republic and all these "deliriums that express to us many times, while doing so, we have seen and what we denounced in this Parliament is that there were no housing policies, that the minimal reversal that had to be made, therefore, every year in housing policies, in housing, basically, is not ugly. And the policies that have come here, of basically using that habitat that supposedly wasn't..., it was empty, and that that habitat that was to have or that was of the great tenors, that is a minimum part of the habitat that is in Catalonia, it wasn't enough and it hasn't been enough, and all the habitat policies that took place in Catalonia haven't worked. In fact, before I spoke... in the previous question, Mrs. Vilalta spoke to you about the yield limitation. It didn't work. I said: "No, we went to Madrid to the Constitutional; he told us that it is not constitutional. But the Council of State Guarantees said so! Today we are talking about the Council of Statutory Guarantees, as if it were basically the final destination of all the decisions to be taken in this Parliament. That's what he was talking about this morning. So the Board of State Guarantees has already said that that law did not work, that that law was not constitutional and that, therefore, it did not apply. But you applied it. Why? Because today, so, Mrs.Vilalta can come out here and say, "Oh, counselor, we've made a social housing policy and we couldn't implement it, we couldn't use the resources we have to have because they don't leave us in Madrid. There is this terrible court, which is the Constitutional Court, which won't let us do this. They're doing the right thing. But it's just that today they're also doing the same thing: they're bringing us here, so, a..., for me, say, initiative that ends up gathering everything together I think wrong. Therefore, no energy policy has been implemented, no housing policy has been implemented. You're wearing it in a decree. That's what I think we could vote against. But, of course, they finally introduced other issues here. I've already said before that they were talking about the elimination of specific and special situations that the pandemic generated, the covid. Well, we agree, at some point we need to normalize the situation, even though we need to remember that there are still cases and that this pandemic or this reality or this disease has not disappeared, and sometimes it seemed so. But they also bring us measures, for example, related to this about residences. There are measures or discussions in this Parliament about the management of the residences that you may have benefited from in this decree. There is a whole series of measures or realities, such as public health care for residents, for example, where this decree could have been introduced and other important measures that have been requested of us by ancient residents, residents and employers, and which do not come in here. I mean, the decree is trying to... I guess they've been trying to introduce all the new legislation they had in one text. They do not have an obvious relationship and do not deepen the needs of the citizens, if we speak of the real crisis that the Catalans are painting in the face of the war in Ukraine. Because they don't talk about taxation, for example. Because one of the problems that Catalans are patenting, basically, is the high price. Why could we also be talking about measures – why not? – taxes and the elimination of some taxes, which I believe are not working or have not worked for us in Catalonia, or the deflation of direct taxes. I mean, there's a series of initiatives that you might have taken bravely in this decree. They didn't. For us, therefore, it is very difficult to support this. But, well, I guess they've got their alliances closed, too. I seemed to hear what Mr. Gallego was saying, and how outraged he was because they didn't want to talk to you. Not now. I think it's been harder for Mr. Gallego not to talk to the commons than the decree there was, which is practically a real disaster, isn't it? But, well, he's been able to fix it with his last poem, which is between what he can basically make up for what he said. For us essentially... Counselor, we don't think that's the solution. We believe that there should be a debate, yes, on this subject. And more. MPs, MPs... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.186.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.187.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor and Councillors, and the rest of the Members, of course. Well, I'm not going to be very original in my speech, because, in fact, the rest of the speakers who preceded me have already told you. In fact, the title is already a little bit, so here... like a salad, isn't it? , which I say, with everything mixed: on the one hand, the war conflict in Ukraine and, on the other hand, an adaptation of measures of the pandemic. But it is not only the decree of the conflict in Ukraine and of measures on the pandemic that goes beyond it. In the end, that's a little, a bar, isn't it? , from naps and cols– allow me, counsel, to tell you–, and they told him the rest, too, of companies. I think this is not the first time that we from here have already criticized that hobby that the Government of the Generalitat has taken with the decrees law. It is true that during the pandemic there was excessive use, but I think it was justified – I think, no, I am convinced that it was justified – because we were in an emergency situation and also with a parliament that was under minimal. And I therefore believe that it was important for the Government, in this regard, to legislate and do so as effectively and as quickly as possible. That was a certain moment, but you have taken a wheel that we have changed government and have not let go. So, I don't think it's the right way to legislate. Firstly, because we are also being robbed of the possibility of the groups being able to make amendments and perhaps find a text that generates more consensus among all and that can go ahead. Today, you already know that there is no support for this decree, as a majority, as perhaps it would have been if this had been done through another procedure. Nor do we agree that the figure of the decree law should be used excessively, but we do not agree that pretexts such as that of the conflict in Ukraine should be used, for example, to legislate on other matters which have little to do with or are minimally connected with it, but that a great effort of interpretation and understanding must be made to understand that this is within this decree. I insist that it is a very clear example of what we have here today, with some measure that does have to do with it, but with others, it does not. For example, you, through this decree, want to promote the use of renewable energy – which would not seem bad to me a priori. But, of course, this is done on the pretext – invented, because it is not true – that the war in Ukraine increases energy or has increased energy. It may be one of the factors – I don't say no – but you know perfectly well that we dragged an energy crisis long before, with an increase in light prices long before the conflict in Ukraine. That mantra that President Sanchez sells to us, as if we all had a sudden amnesia here... but it's not like that. And, therefore, let us use this decree and let us also try to sell this false story or this myth that, because of the war, then, we now have the high prices, no. What, of course, could aggravate the situation? That, of course, I don't blame you in any of the cases, do I? This decree follows a little, therefore, the wake already of the decree of the Government of Spain, the Royal decree law 6/2022, and therefore you introduce here measures to simplify the procedures of authorization of renewable energy generation projects within the scope of the competence of the Generalitat. In particular, the processes for the authorisation of renewable energy projects are declared urgent for reasons of public interest. And in the end, then, you have done what you have done through this decree is to make it easier to implement solar photovoltaic plants on agricultural and forest soils. I insist that, perhaps, as a loose measure, if you had done so through another procedure, we could agree. But, of course, first of all, it does not seem to us that they are going to relieve the consumer's final bill. It is true that it can relieve one side; it is true that it will certainly contribute to the fight against climate change; but it will not reduce the price of energy, and therefore it seems to me to be a sterile measure in this regard, or at least insufficient in this regard. Another of the measures incorporated in this decree is in the health field; in particular, what is being updated are measures that have already been taken during the pandemic: for example, with the subject of the electronic prescription; also to empower Counsellor Argimon, in this case, to make changes in the indicators of the epidemiological situation. I mean, things that we've already dealt with on the pandemic issue and that you've updated through this decree. On this point, we do not have anything to object to either. Now, it seems to me that it is late, because it is true that we are, fortunately – or we want to think that fortunately – already in that final phase of the pandemic and perhaps, therefore, this could have been resolved before, above all, everything that refers to residences with the detection of those collective outbreaks of vulnerable people that we obviously find very important, because it is a risk group that has suffered a great deal during this pandemic. It also amends the civil protection legislation so that, in installations, temporary spaces for the care of the population affected by an emergency do not apply self-protection obligations. This is the first of the measures within the decree that can be connected, at least, with what is happening in Ukraine. We must come to the third step to find some connection with this war conflict. Fourthly, it also introduces this Decree-Law measures in the fields of social services. And here, yes, here I say that this is, of course, measures resulting from the war and the humanitarian consequences that it is causing. Specifically, here are two new cases of social benefits of an economic nature which have to do with cases of temporary reception. Many families were therefore asking for such assistance. It is true that we are in a very serious humanitarian situation and that, therefore, what we have to do is to make it easy for those families who intend to take in or who are already in that reception situation. Therefore, here I tell you that it is a measure that seems right to us. The percentages of the sufficiency income indicator for single-parent families are also modified, and therefore we here at this point too..., well, we do think that it does go with the theme and the theme and that it could have been legislated..., or that that technique of the decree law is correct. And then, too, in this area you have introduced amendments to the law of the right of habitatage, haven't you? , of the right to housing, and from now on they cease to consider empty the houses that have been abandoned in a rural area in the process of population loss – which has neither to do with the war conflict nor does it have to do with the pandemic of the covid-19– ; social mediation is also extended in the rent and in the transfer of housing in favor of the Administration so that they can benefit war refugees – here, yes, here they do have a connection again. And finally, these final provisions, therefore, also update measures taken during the crisis. If this were a decree that we could vote for points, then we would certainly support many of these points. If you had used another legislative technique, such as a government bill, we could also have introduced amendments, we could have opened the corresponding paper and surely we would also have given at least that first support to the initial procedure. But it is true that just as it was configured, and just as the decree is drafted, it is difficult for us right now to support it. The truth is that, I insist, I think that this figure is being abused and that they would have to do a rethink, because, perhaps, with that will, with that goal of..., well, doing everything faster and more urgently, what they are getting is quite the opposite, and we are slowing down measures that, I insist, would surely obtain another consensus if the technique used had been another. So, counsel, we are not going to support this decree law on this occasion, even though, as I say, there are things we would have liked to support, but we do not think that this is the way and that this way of lawmaking needs to be reconsidered, because, moreover, I even believe that, in democratic terms, it is not all that optimal it could be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.188.0	Subsequently, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.189.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, MPs, MPs, in Catalonia, we are almost used to living in a mena of false normality like the spoiled birth, as the repressed birth, but, more than that, these last years have touched on us to avoid unexplored territories in our recent history, which has meant, first, the pandemic of the covid, and then the war of Ukraine. And allow me a parenthesis, because I see there have been some surprises when I spoke of repression, of this normalization of repression. Those who insist on talking about meeting again are the ones who deny this repression. If you'll excuse me, just some data. In the proper two weeks – only in the proper two weeks – thirty-three activists went to court with complaints of sentences of up to seven years in prison and fifteen more in court summonses. I mean, forty-four people affected by repression in two weeks. God, I don't have the people of the reunion and God, I don't have to smile with these things. In any case, close the parenthesis, because giving answers to the emergencies that Catalonia has does not imply normalizing this situation of repression. And, as I said, at this time that we have lived in these unexplored lands, we have advanced without maps, without familiar receipts, without knowing very well how we should face the next day. And in all cases, with a common characteristic, which is that we have done without means, and what is harder, without being able to count on the resources generated by the conjunction of the Catalan society, without counting with all the means that could facilitate this sovereignty that we want complete through a state. On the contrary. In the case of the covid, we experienced a brutal episode of re-centralisation of Catalonia by the State, worth the redundancy. And with the war in Ukraine, therefore, it was up to us to collide without having competitions in the collide, and we aimed to face the effects of the economic crisis without real and effective legislative capacity in economic and energy matters. The law that you present to the government seeks to compensate, therefore, the competitions and media that we do not have with determination and government action that we do want to have. Because, effectively, Ukraine's invasion by Russia has constant effects on people's lives in Catalonia, in the form of an increase in immediate prices, but also economic and political effects that are harmful to Catalonia that we are still seeing. The Ukrainian War, however, also offered the best version of Catalonia, the best face of Catalan society. We all know people, we all know organizations that have acted and act before the horrors of the war in Ukraine. Therefore, from Juntas to Catalunya, thanks to all and every one of these people and organizations involved. In fact, they follow the best tradition of the Catalan society, which has already acted in conflicts and wars of bad record, but of very good record for what it does to cooperation and solidarity: the case of Bosnia or Kosovo, or still now in the case of Syria. Catalonia, the Catalan society, despite the fact that some people don't want it to be like this, still feel like a cobbled country, we insist, despite the fact that we don't have the skills on immigration that would allow us to do so. And this civil society initiative forces the government to do, to be on the rise, and that means guaranteeing social housing, guaranteeing the rights of refugees, capabilities. And this decree also went from this, and it went from how the different departments of the Government have been heard and continue to understand to make it possible; with the councillors, above all, in a prominent way – Councillor Alsina, Councillor Cervera and Councillor Verge – for which you have worked on this issue. And this decree takes into account not only the direct victims, but also the refugees, but also the people to whom the war has not allowed to return home or the family members who suffer from family separation because of the war; as I said, in the best tradition of what this country has done. And also of Ukraine, but not only of Ukraine above us one of the worst effects of what we are patenting: the rise of energy prices. And the government does what it can, and that's why we're giving support, I'd just miss it, to all this law decree, which couldn't be any other way. Now, what are we talking about when we talk about the energy price? From Juntes, we've been demanding the State to act to lower the price of energy. As he often remembers in Joan Canadell, and as he approved of a young man who defended himself in this faristol, he would lower the price of gas and lower the price of energy produced by nuclear and hydropower. It is possible to offset price increases with extraordinary taxes. Listen well to what you are to the Government of the State: it is possible to make up for the increases of little with extraordinary taxes. Europe has already said that it was possible and legal. The main hydroelectric systems operating in the Guanyan State today around 3,000_million euros per month– 3,000_million euros per month. Before the crisis, they won in the order of 200_million euros each month. In any situation, this xifra would be a scandal. In a time of patience for the majority of Catalan society, these benefits are more than just a scandal. It's a question that can be solved, that can be solved. Before, the company of the commons told us: "I find it concrete... I find it lacking concreteness to this decree. Practice with the example. You can do something, because I'm sure and I'm convinced that's how these figures look, like us, like a scandal. It is an extraordinary imposition for these benefits, and with these money to fight from the poor energy, to help peppers and entrepreneurs; to help, for example, universities. I suppose you know that a good part of the Catalan universities this winter have had problems managing the heating of their buildings. It is to say, students, that they do not work with the normality that they would have because of the fact that the hydroelectrics have these benefits so minute. And that's possible. Only political will and a state willing to do so. For our part, with this decree we also facilitate the inn of renewable energy projects in Catalonia. But there's not enough. We lack tools and means, which Catalonia, paradoxically, generates. And also in the field of health and after the enormous impact on our health system, this decree agility, for example, the reception system, its connection to the pharmaceutical network. But there's not enough. Because without funding the health system in Catalonia will again become tense, despite Catalonia generating media and resources to maintain it. And in the residential camp this decree also drives and facilitates patient care. But there's not enough. In the socio-sanitary camp, our opinions, the people who see them working in these centers..., we lack the resources that Catalonia generates and does not hold back. When a country lives on the brink of failure and collapse due to an unbearable and inefficient fiscal deficit, it generates a vulnerability such that the least undercut puts the welfare of the people in danger. The coward and the war in Ukraine have left it in evidence. And the government works and generates strategies to put it down, despite working mortgaged and with a hand attached to the board. And while we do it, because we need to do it, we need to remember that there is another way of living that Lluís Llach sang. A life with more social, political and economic justice, a life in which no one is left behind, in which no one is burdened to warm up, in which no factory or workshop is set up for the price of energy, and in which the hospital has to reprogram its operations due to lack of media. It is the life of the country that has lived with what it generates and where there are no fallen benefits of the cell for the oligopolis that have moved its to the Bernabéu lot. To this country and to this way of living is only up for two paths: either independence, or independence. And we've already ruled together: independence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.190.0	I, finally, have the word, in the name of Esquerra Republicana, the deputy Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.191.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I am the last to speak today, therefore, many of the questions have already been raised, but we need to talk about the consequences of the war in Ukraine, which, as I have already said, is, in fact, devastating at the human level, but there are consequences and effects in the economic and social spheres that are affecting the whole world, particularly Europe, and unfortunately our country does not escape. I, therefore, need to give you an answer. The evolution of the markets, the inflation, the rise of the price of energy or the arrival of drawings of thousands of refugees from Ukraine to our country are some of those derived from the war, to which, as we say, with this decree that today we bring to validation, that the Government brings to validation, is intended to give answer. A decree that, as its title indicates, is a decree of urgent measures, of necessary measures. Some groups refer to the need to debate, to talk slowly about these questions. Emergence can't wait. Those people who arrive can't wait, the needy can't wait. And, therefore, of the Government of the Generality what we expect is that, before a situation of humane crisis as we have, we are given answers. Answers which, of course, are concrete in this decree, yes, but which are also concrete in other ways. This same week, therefore, a new line of help to workers in ERTO was approved, 20_million euros that are not collected in this decree, but that are measures that the Government of the Generality is doing in this complex situation, where there are so many families that are going through it badly. As I said, this decree is an exceptional little decree, because they intervene until nine departments of the Government of the Generality; it is not customary a decree with so many departments involved. And, therefore, I would like to thank, therefore, the work of all those who have been working on it. It says "this decree is an extended decree – in relation to this page – but it basically addresses three questions that have already been raised here. From the outset, the crisis generated by the social and economic consequences of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The need to adapt the regulation of covid-19 measures to the evolution of the pandemic. The pandemic has evolved and, therefore, the calibre, therefore, has also updated all the measures that had been approved. And, finally, the approach of the emergence derived from the climate change, aggravated by the increase in energy prices. I will start with what makes the consequences more direct of this war in Ukraine, which is where there was the most urgent need, because we are talking about humane measures. We all applauded these measures, these shows of solidarity – in fact, today we also heard it in this Faristol – with the rescue of sentient families, of many smaller families, of many children and children arriving in our country and who, therefore, care, therefore, give this welcome. That's why the decree that the government today brings to validation provides for an economic benefit for families nursing the unaccompanied minors. The economic impact of this solidarity cannot return to the families. The economic impact cannot have on those families who have already done this exercise of solidarity. Therefore, it is necessary to guarantee an economic benefit for these families who are making the marriage. It is hard to understand that there are groups that today vote against giving this support to these families, because it is obviously an urgent need. And I'm sure – after we talk about it – I'm sure the decree could include many, many measures, but these were necessary and these have a direct impact on the lives of these families. It is also difficult to hear that today there are votes against including refugee families in housing cessation programmes. It is hard to hear, because there are some people in need of housing, because there have been some interim measures. As I said, there are many Ukrainian families living in Catalonia, who have welcomed these people home. But this is a temporary solution. We must also guarantee the autonomy of the people who arrive and, therefore, must guarantee this right to housing. And I'd like to put in some figures to hear the magnitude of what we're talking about. Mirin, in the last four months – four months – 21,847 people have arrived in Catalonia. Imagine the situation of these families, to deny them now any kind of help. The solutions of initial shock, as I said, this welcome to the homes of Ukrainian people who have been solidary with their veins and veins, therefore, have had an immediate response, but it is that we must give..., we must overcome this response, to say the least, of shock. And here let me, therefore, as the Verge Councillor has already done on various occasions, reiterate that the Government of the State is leaving its functions. Only the twenty-i-sis_per_cent of refugees, therefore, of these 21,000, only 5,688, to be more precise, are allocated to facilitated resources in the state plan, which bring to the practice in an excellent way entities like Red Cree; but it is only the twenty-i-sis_per_cent of these families. The rest, the remaining seventy-four per cent, have gone, like the goddesses, to cases of these familiar and known ones, and are attached, these people, by public resources of the Generality, by public resources of many gatherings, which are those who are on the first line of this emergence. And this has an economic cost; an economic cost that is, in this case, borne by the Government of the Generality, which is seeing that the resources coming from Europe are not transferred to them. Therefore, the response to these 16,159 people is being given. We're talking about school, we're talking about groceries, we're talking about school transportation, we're talking about health posts, which are, in this case, the Government of the Generality and which are also taking over the assemblies. And it is true that the Government of the State, therefore, says – in this case, the minister writes –: " Vagina making, vagina making and keeping the bills. But until when? We need an answer and we also need a transfer of these resources. These are some of the measures, therefore, which include this decree, but – as has been mentioned – there are other measures that they want to see, in this case, with the rise in energy prices. I think it was Congresswoman Sabater who was talking about this a year ago at the cost of the megawatt/hour. I seem to be talking about a-a-euros, I wouldn't want to be wrong, now it's been a year or June of the past year. Today, June 8th, the average price of the megawatt/hour is 185,45_euros. Today – today. The bill for the light that the families pay, that we pay the families is a forty-per-cent more expensive than this one just a year ago. It is clear that we have already come with many needs, with disparate energy prices, but it is also true that this war between the Belgians has made this situation worse and, therefore, from the Government of the Generality to give it an answer. Also in the climate change context that we are living in, therefore, this decree drives a series of measures, a series of points that they want to see – it has been discussed before – with renewable energies and with this model transformation. We have to place and we have to put in context that we come, after two years, with many needs and many shortcomings in the field of renewable energies, that we also come from a speculative cylinder that had the territory on fire and that, therefore, should put it order, and should also change the model of these renewable energies, not only to make a change of energy sources, right? – from energy sources, in this case, fossils to renewable energies – but also a model..., a model change, a system change. That in this decree what is allowed is to reduce to half – it has also been said – the administered terms of projects from up to five megawatts. We must certainly do much more and continue to work, because we are in figures, so we are still very low, taking into account the need to complete the agreements in the European sphere, these agreements in the area of the 2030 agenda, these agreements in the area of decarbonisation to which we must arrive, we must settle in 2050. We also have to say that, second of all, this decree makes it easier for all small and medium renewable projects to evacuate the energy produced to the proximity electric grid and thus to promote local production, that generation and consumption are close to, and also energy self-sufficiency connected to the grid between municipalities. And finally, also in the field of renewable energies, to say that the later modification makes it possible to ensure that renewable energy projects do not lose the right of access and connection or the endorsements and are archived. Therefore, they are some of the measures that today this decree brings to validation, also beyond the adaptation measures to the needs of the covid-19. As I said, the needs and urgency of these measures were evident. Could it do more? Of course, it could do more. It could do much more and that has an economic impact. The resources, unfortunately, are limited, but the needs of these refugee families, also of the host families, are immediate and cannot wait. Nor can we expect this model change in our country's energies, this adaptation to give response to the climate emergency we are living in. And, therefore, we need this decree; a decree that today... the Generality approved a few days ago and today leads to validation. Many more measures, such as the goddess, these 20_millions that have also approved direct help to ERTO workers or fixed discontinuous ones. Not all the measures that the Government of the Generalitat has taken are now in this decree. And, therefore, we need to keep working, because this war has brought us many needs and we need to give an answer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.192.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. And in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it shall be understood that the votes in favour shall be in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes against shall be in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, the law decree was validated with 63 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 31 abstentions. Also according to Article 158.4 of the Rules, once the law decree has been validated, I ask if there is any group in the chamber that wants this law decree to be passed as the law bill. [[Pause.]] Okay. So we're going to vote for the deal as the bill of this decree. The vote begins. With the result of the vote– 36 votes in favour, 94 votes against–, this decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 11/2014, of October 10, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00026/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the fourth item on the order of the day: the debate to the totality on the proposed law amending Law 11/2014, of October 10, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. And I take this opportunity to greet the members of the Observer against the LGTBI-phobia who are accompanying us to the public today. This legislative initiative has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar. In order to present it, Mrs Basha Change has, first of all, the word "deputy" for a maximum of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.193.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Well, first of all, send the acknowledgments to the Observers against Homophobia and to all the entities it represents and to the Workshop of Critical Trans-Feminist and Anti-Racist Interventions for its pocket of incidence, as a self-organized civil society, before the struggle and resistance against violence and persecution of sexual dissent. We have opened Law 11/2014, for the rights of LGBTI people, for various reasons: because schisheteroma is structural violence, because punitiveism does not change, because we do not walk alone and do not respond alone, because sexual dissent cannot be regulated, and much less from the Western gaze. And for this reason, the objectives are very clear: to provide Law 11/2014 with a perspective of restorative justice, bringing its sanctioning regulation closer to reparation and guarantee of non-repetition; to provide it with legal certainty, taking into account the principle of specificity, and, therefore, harmonized with Law 19/2020, equal treatment and non-discrimination, and with the modifications of the 2015 Criminal Code, eliminating any traces of conversion therapies and characterizing its promotion explicitly as a very heavy offence, a task in which there is an inexplicable shameful delay and to which today we begin to put it final; to provide it with an intersectual perspective with the recognition of the route worthy of the sexual conflicts of the global south; to guarantee the visibility of the message processes to the institution of the recognition of the flags. But today we will focus on this concrete objective: to pursue and punish discrimination in the area of the rights of LGBTI people, an objective that is necessary and problematic at the same time; necessary because, yes, we live in a context of growing explicit violence against sexual dissent, fuelled by hate speech that proliferate even in this room, as we see in one of the following interventions; and we believe that we are demonstrating the data of the reports of the Secretary of Equality and of the Observers against Homophobia, we already have more than one hundred and fifty complaints in this 2022. The current law does pursue discrimination, but it does so from an individual perspective, and we do not forget that the LGTBI-fóbia is structural, it goes far beyond specific discriminations: the LGTBI-fóbia is access to housing, sanitation, education or the world of work, where the taxes of dissidents are scandalous – for example, to the collection of trans people, up to eighty_per_cent –; it is access to citizenship through the foreign law and migration policies that are going on. Therefore, the LGTBI-phobia is structural, even though this law is centered on pursuing individual discrimination fuelled by hate speech. For this reason, the proposed change cannot go alone; it needs to be accompanied by policies that guarantee access to public services without being conditioned to the state of citizenship that separates people into a range of rights and possibilities and that excludes from access to these rights non-citizenship. It is also problematic to name ‘sexual diversity' to dissent; for example, social and educational attention protocols that treat dissent as mere diversity, as individual peculiarity and not as a way of inhabiting the world, as a political exercise of resistance to the sexual colonial rule. Fighting against LGTBI-phobia means recognizing the multitude of ways to exist and resist, means questioning heterosexuality as usual, means questioning the colonialism of European institutions. To transform the future, the LGTBI-fóbia cannot be separated from the material consequences of living on the margins; it cannot be allowed the institution to absorb dissent, order and validity to change rights and freedoms that neutralize the form of rebellion to the norm and its transformative ability. The modification seeks to return this transformative spirit of dissent that is celebrated this june, month of pride, and which we cannot fail to remember with words [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, president – of Karence Cole, who says: "The month of pride is thanks to a woman; a black, trans and bisexual woman; a black, trans, bisexual and HIV woman, who was a sex worker and who threw a mother at a police officer and thus started a revolt against the State. His name was Marsha P. Johnson. We do not lose ourselves between the capitalism of the arch of Sant Martí and the blatant racism because of the privilege of being white and gay. If it doesn't cost black people, transwomen, transvestites, sex workers, people living with HIV, you're not celebrating pride, you're not celebrating dissent. You are celebrating the capitalism of the arch of Sant Martí and police brutality. Collect this much-needed change, because we want to live a dignified life, we want to live a life without, because dissent is pride, and pride is life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.194.0	Next, and for the defense of the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word the deputy Monica Lora, for a maximum time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.195.0	Thank you. Well, the CUP presents today an amendment to Law 11/2014 to continue with its ideological agenda. The laws and rules of our legal system should aim to seek the common good and regulate the needs of people by focusing on the special and essential need of society. And precisely this law, Law 11/2014, of 10 October, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia approved by the Parliament, does not seek as its purpose the common good, rather it seeks to impose the ideology of gender, thus making it an official legal doctrine. And that is why we have tabled this amendment in its entirety. And also because we consider that we already have rules and we already have laws that protect people, all people regardless of their sexual status. It is also because we argue that all those regulations that are articulated in this report must be repealed in violation of the basic principles of equality. Also because we respect the dignity of all, absolutely all people, and because the modifications they intend to implement, as we will already explain, do not in any case mean a benefit to Catalans. The consequence of this law and others of the same kind is that it leads to overlegislation. Because we must also take into account that we currently have 17 LGTBI laws in Spain, plus the rules of our legal system in civil matters, in criminal matters, in the workplace, etc. And this, precisely, does not guarantee a better quality of life for people, and what is happening with it is legal insecurity, as we are seeing at this very moment. In their explanatory statement they say they intend to pursue and punish discrimination. However, this law and its amendment, if anything, is that it is discriminatory, like all those based on gender ideology. And we are not surprised that one of the changes that you want to make is to fill all the institutions of Catalonia with flags of the LGTBI lobby and, however, we also find that in a systematic way the law of flags is not fulfilled in many Catalan municipalities that obliges them to wave in the facade of the municipalities the Spanish and Catalan flag. And law enforcement is mandatory. And we find that separatists and the left constantly fail. And now they want us to fill the institutions with multicolored flags. And not only that, but above them they make law of that. And then they'll tell us and sell us that you're worried about the problems of Catalans. They should be ashamed of themselves. And one of the biggest legal misconceptions we find in the amendment that we are voting on today is that they seek to marginalise criminal law, including labour law, in order to impose the typology of violations of what is punishable and what is not punishable; that is, with a criterion very open to their interpretations. And this proposed amendment that has been promoted by the Observer against the Homofòbia, which we have here today in this plenary session, is with the intention of developing the legal and sanctioning framework, shielding the original content of this law, and reinforcing false rights. Because this law is one of the most important instruments that the LGTBI lobby in Catalonia has to implement, precisely, the gender ideology in all areas of society. And it is a law that invades the workplace, that invades the educational, cultural, media, health, justice and so on. And it is that they impose by law something more than a way of thinking, a way of living, thus threatening the individual freedom of people; with a very important element: the children, with the introduction of sexual indoctrination in ages where not yet enough maturity has been reached [[I'll give you a]] And not only that, but also, for example, we find that they want to inculcate in children concepts such as 'gender expression, 'gender social construction,'sexual identity, etc.'. And, moreover, they seek to persecute all those families who do not kneel before the imposition of this ideology. What else does this law and the amendment that we are voting for today serve? For to generate a false social alarm, to collect people and waste public resources on their ideological whims. That's why the General Directorate for Public Policy was created, where more than EUR 5 million is allocated for studies, protocols, reports, surveys, macro-surveys, macro-surveys, and also for different rainbow festivals, such as the festival that was held this weekend in Tarragona, which we can see the feminist festival and the LGBTBI, the Teta Festival; because public resources are spent on this, and this is a shame and we have to denounce it. [[Greetings.]] And when we talk about passing the scissors, we talk about precisely things like this. That's right, you disguise all this from an alleged interest in a group of people, but in reality the issue is not the rights of LGBTI people, already protected by law, like the rest of the citizens; because you are interested in the LGBTI lobby. What interests you is the LGTBI lobby, which provides you with votes in exchange for prebendas. A lobby dedicated precisely to distributing good homosexual notebooks; a lobby that does not even represent all LGBTI people; if not, ask homosexuals who do not commune with their postulates and who are pointed out, who are many. And it seems to you that you are also very concerned about hate crimes for sexual orientation, and unfortunately you are not so sensitive when hate crimes are caused by motivations that are not useful to you for your political causes. As if any insult, threat or beating of a person who does not belong to this lobby is not equally miserable and equally condemnable. And we, as we have already demonstrated in this plenary session and in the various committees of Parliament, always condemn all violence – always – whoever the victim is and whoever the aggressor is; always VOX condemns all violence. [[Greetings.]] And if you or someone in this Parliament says otherwise, lie; just like you also lie when you say that since VOX we are against people for their sexual orientation, because that is a lie. Let's see if you understand, once and for all, that discriminating from your postulates is not absolutely hating anyone. And to end, we find that, under false protection of rights, this law and its amendment violate freedoms. We find that this law pursues a political agenda of lobbies that is polluting our legislation. And not only that, but it also endangers our children and undermines equality and freedom. And it is that the LGTBI laws that are currently in force in Spain violate the basic principles of equality, the Spanish legal system and the Spanish Constitution. And we find that, before unfair laws such as the one we are debating today and also this modification, they stigmatize and point people out for their sexual orientation, and to this can only be answered by their repeal. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.196.0	Then, to express her position, she first has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.197.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, allow me to begin by welcoming and thanking the Observers' representatives against Homophobia, for their constant work in favour of LGBTI rights, day after day, more than attending this plenary session today. And also announce our vote against this speech to the totality of the VOX Parliamentary Group. I will divide my intervention into two parts: a first, on the opportunity of this proposal, and a second, with some considerations on the content of this proposal. On the opportunity of the proposal, two points. As you know, at this time, there is a LGTBI working group in charge of preparing a document of conclusions and proposals for actions for the eradication of the LGTBI-fòbia in Catalonia. Such a time we have seemed more cautious to expect the outcome of this work group, as at first glance; among other things, because we will find that many of our peers will recompare in the pose and probably with conclusions or with very similar considerations. The second, about the opportunity of broad political consensuses that require the generosity not to appear this or the other, but to seek the maximum possible political parties. We have worked with you, with the CUP, in this context in some themes, in a correct way. We think that it was possible to agree on this issue, too; and especially with a law that was already born with a broad political consensus. As I said, in this work group, a multitude of entities that have been working for LGBTI rights for many years, including professionals related to victim care, prevention, and the academic world, have appeared. From the comparisons that have occurred until now, I think there are different reflections that have appeared in this work group and that can help us in this debate today. First reflection: there is a broad consensus, amplifies, on the urgent need to deploy a sanctioning regime linked to Law 11/2014, through the Law Regulation 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which could also be applied as a sanctioning regime to guarantee the LGTBI rights. Not all situations of rape or discrimination for LGTBI-fóbia can be criminal, but they do require administrative penalties so that administrations can act. And one of the objectives of this Law 11/2014 was precisely this: to deploy a regime of infringements and sanctions through its Chapter IV. And the reality is that after eight years, inexplicably, this has not yet been done by the Government of the Generality. Second thought. It is considered in the majority that the current mark is more or less adequate, but that the eight-year commitment to the deployment of the sanctioning regime has limited those positive effects that were expected from this law and that, in fact, it was a pioneer at the Spanish and European levels. Third consideration. The origin of LGTBI-fobic attacks is a structural problem. Acting individually on concrete behaviour will not make these structural causes disappear. Therefore, re-modifying the legal framework without ensuring a real deployment of the law itself or resources in the field of education, sanitation, does not ensure the best of the situation at these times, a situation with some difficult data. So we may have considered it more appropriate to wait for the conclusions of this working group to see which legislative changes could be useful to the criteria of the different counterparts and to submit a consensus proposal not only between the political groups, but also with the professional and with the entities. And it also means that we do not want to generate new expectations among the LGTBI collection of a new legislative amendment that did not come accompanied, this time yes, by a political impulse decided by the Government of the Generality. On the content, two additional considerations to that basic proposal that the CUP has already submitted. We believe that it is oblivious again and we would like to introduce it or deepen it into multiple discrimination, which is very useful in realities where the victim is not just about LGBTI-phobic discrimination. We also think that it would be useful to include specific LGTBI non-discrimination plans in the business equity plans, and we also think it would be useful to improve the wording of Article 10 on training and awareness. We think it would also be worth adapting some of the contents or proposals that they propose to us to other standard brands to avoid possible conflicts of competition. We wouldn't want this modification to result in a sterile, useless confrontation that would add elements that are negative to a situation that is already quite complicated. Some language issues. On Article 34a, you add to the original wording ‘in an intentional and repeated way; to an original text you only posed ‘in a repeated way. We must bear in mind that, if we add intent to the original wording, it will be necessary to demonstrate this intention in order to be able to sanction. And from our point of view, we opened a door to the fact that I argued on the part of the offender that there was no such intentionality. Let us therefore think that it would be worth leaving the original wording in this case. In short, some changes in language, of other languages, that allow this law to be improved and that, although, as we have said, it is produced with a overlapping calendar, with a specific working group and with a broad forms of the great political consensus that will accompany the law, in any case, from our parliamentary group we will work, in favor of the improvement of the current data on LGBTI-fobic attacks in Catalonia, with a clear increase, as indicated by the Observers' own data against Homophobia. And we ask the Government of the Generality to deploy already as a reality the sanctions associated with LGTBi-fobic actions, simplify the processes and, above all, we work in structural solutions at the expense of the punitive, linked to extend tolerance and, ultimately, civilization or, if I may say so in another way, civilization. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.198.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.199.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors – now it's not even there – I wanted to start agraint too..., alas, I forgive! : Now he's moved out of place, sooner. [[The joker laughs.]] He also wanted to start by giving thanks to the entities that accompany us, to the Observers against Homophobia and to the LGBT Platform. We also have representatives of Understanding Santa Coloma, which is also one of the entities that has been able to compare in the work group. And I think that we are, once more, in an initiative that we want to thank the CUP that has made it easier for it to be present, because we are again in something that is perhaps the best thing we can do from this Parliament, that is to channel the legislative proposals of the entities and of the organized movement for the defence of rights, that use this Parliament to demand more rights and to demand more compliance. Therefore, I would disagree a little about the subject of relevance that the Socialist Group's companion commented. I think it's very relevant. It is true that we have a working group that is on the move, but it is also true that we can move forward on two things in parallel and that the conclusions of the working group will surely serve to feed the legacy of this law. Therefore, we celebrate and appreciate the presentation of this law, which, moreover, we believe would be necessary; but obviously, and as we have said other times, we believe that it is necessary for you to be accompanied by a reflection, and that I believe that it is one of the reflections that you have been presented I would say that in all, practically all the unanimity of the appearances that we have so far had to the working group, and that is that the laws must be something more than a text written on a paper. Laws, the band of being declarative, which is important, the band of having symbolic principles, which is important, the band of having principles of recognition of rights, which is important, require resources that make them real. It is to say, that everything that you say is true, that there is a before and after approval of a law, that the people to whom this law seeks to guarantee rights and protect in front of attacks LGTBI-fóbics feel that, thanks to this law, their rights are more recognized and are more protected in front of attacks. Clearly, the value we make after eight years – not just us, but, as I say, most of the entities that have been present – is that this has not happened. That is to say, Law 11/2014 is a law that has not been deployed, that has not been given the necessary resources because that law follows a guarantee of rights for LGBTI people. And we're very old. We are many years old that we should have deployed a network of SAIs, full service services to LGBTI people, that did not deploy, that did not ask for resources because of the steps, that depends much on the capacity of the assemblies, the mobilization that there was of the social organizations. We know that all the days of the week work, we have others that work two hours a week, we have some that are carried by the same people who carry SIAD, that they have no reason to have specialized training in order to be able to attend to the LGBTI people who go there. Therefore, they are certainly good professionals in equality issues, but perhaps not in LGBTI rights issues and therefore they are not giving the service they need. More than it's up to them to do everything with the same hours and with a lot of precariousness. Therefore, it is a law that has not been deployed; it has not been deployed at the level of cross-cutting policies; it has not been deployed at the level of ensuring access to health, the right to health, to all LGBTI people and to all their specificities and special needs. There are still many difficulties because trans people, trans men can access a gynecologist, because if they have the name changed and they are men, then it turns out that they can't go like trans men, for example. And that's been reported many times. There are still problems with accessing the medication that trans people need, because it does not guarantee adequate and sufficient medication. It's still a big mistake, and it's one of the things that has been reported the most, that all that part that we say is very important and that the entities themselves claim as very important, that it's all the part of prevention, awareness and training to transform this patriarchal society and that allows this LGBTI-phobia, which, as I said, is structural and collective, change. Because we will not be able to respond to one-on-one LGTBI-fobic attacks, it will be impossible to give that response. The only way to give an answer is to avoid them. And how do we avoid them? So, yes, indeed, with this awareness, with these campaigns, with this education, with this training. But it did not form – and we were told the other day by one of the entities that appeared, the Candela cooperative –..., not a formation that is a power point that we use and answer so the deputies, which is, moreover, the one that passes to the functioning and functions of the Generality. A LGTBI right-wing formation is not a powerpoint, it goes much further. How do we ensure that people who care for LGBTI people from Public Administration incorporate this LGBTI perspective and this cross-sectoral perspective? Obviously, it requires a lot more than a powerpoint. And let's go to the issue of schools, which is a subject that repeatedly arises. It's another thing that's said. What training, what follow-up do the professionals of the educated world have in order to be able to give response to the specific needs of LGBTI people in the world of education? There are protocols, but what is the background to this protocol? Which tools are given why can they really apply this protocol and follow well? There isn't. And that's what they've denounced, insisting very much on, the entities. Sex-affective education. Let's go back to the topic, we have the Coeduca't, which is a nice web page with a lot of resources. But exactly what does co-education... or what, co-education and sex-affective education translate into schools? In most cases in res. Therefore, I would be quite reassured by VOX's deputy, because, sadly – surely, fortunately for her – precisely what is not being done is to do this training and this education to children from the earliest age, to avoid that they can end up becoming people who commit LGBTI-phobic attacks. Because it's very important for this formation. And guaranteeing the rights of children and children is also preventing them from doing so if they have families that are LGBTI-phobic. Therefore, I think it is a step forward in this law that could not be deployed, because there are no resources needed. That said, already, about the content of the law, I think it's a law proposal that needs to be able to work, that we need to be able to have the appearances, that maybe some of them will duplicate, but the idea is that they are centered on the text. That the adaptation to the sanctioning regime of 19/2020 was a necessity to avoid going into contradictions; it is to say, if it was discrimination on the basis of LGBTI-phobic, it had a sanction, if it was for racism in it had another. I didn't have a sense of that. Therefore, it is important to move forward in this homogeneity. It is important that in a law it is recognised – and it does, in fact, the 19/2020 – that LGTBI flags can be pinned on the balconies and that there will be no one who will report it back to the Central Electoral Board because there are some elections and says no, that this is actually partyism and is electoral propaganda. Therefore, it is important that this is recognized in a law as a flag that claims rights. It's important; this incorporation I think is very necessary. And from the point of view, too, of external action, which is embedded among the priorities – more so, now that we are making a new director of development cooperation – all this prospect of incorporating the rights of LGBTBI people; the rights of refugees, but also the rights of people who suffer from this discrimination and violation of rights in their country. And it's important that the department believes it. It is important that the department believes it and that the department contributes and that the department, from its experience – that, more than anything else, they can also compare in the work group – makes their contributions to us from this experience, as things have gone, do an assessment, and you decide which of these things is work because they are real and because they improve the law. We insist that surely the best would be to increase the pressure, but in the band, that is why I think there are proposals that we can take into account. And speaking of propaganda..., and I don't know a lot of posters, but what it's like and what they've done to advertise the Assembly of Tarragona, so I take advantage of it to advertise the campaign of the Assembly of Barcelona and invite them all to the Pride of this June 2022, where more than 4,500 people will be able to go out and celebrate and enjoy this dissent and this demand for sexual and gender diversity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.200.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.201.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thanks to the entities too for visiting us today and, well, for the patience in general, because I imagine that at this time they already know that you have to be very patient with us, with political groups, that sometimes it's like a pot of grills. Well, in order to clear up incognitos, advance that we will vote against the amendment to the whole of VOX, and, moreover, with great satisfaction we will vote against. Let's see, don't hang up – don't hang up – i.e. don't hang up. You have tried to appear here as defenders of individual freedom, which you are not. You fight some ideological excesses with others. You fight an ideological agenda with another. In fact, a true defender of freedom, right? , before it is between two fires, between you and the other. And "children, children, children... See, children are not from the State, they are not from the Generalitat, but they are not all from Santiago Abascal. I myself have a daughter, formerly a daughter, currently « daughter, not binary, is in a process of gender self-definition, and what do you want me to do, eat it for me? What's eating it for me? Don't you respect him? For I am going to go on, I want to see how this process of my daughter ends, and I think that because of being a minor she does not have to be neglected or have to be... Finally, I ask for a little respect for all the circumstances and a little prudence from everyone here, because, to see, it is very comfortable to pretend that violence has no gender, but, instead, it has its origin. You who ask to criminalize entire groups according to where you come from, let's say..., everyone else has ideology, except you. But, finally, not to waste any more time with you..., and devote myself, therefore, to the proposition of law. Well, respect the CUP law proposal, we're watching them come. Let's just say that from the start it looks like you've come here, a little, as it was said, it seems to me, with a elbow up your ass. So, they've come in a hurry to present this bill, which we also think, on the sidelines of what is its content, which we'll now comment on, the time when it's a little rare. As has already been said here, we are immersed in a LGTBI work group. Not only that, but at the last session of the Feminism Commission, my group, Ciutadans, presented an initiative to compliment this law for many years parked, for many years, or still pending implementation. All this time, so, no, it looks like they had other priorities, they had another job, but go on, I mean, they didn't get out of bed either. And I let 'em say that we, because it is clear that the rings of reaching agreement with no one, agreed with the groups of the government, with Together for Catalonia and with the Republican Left, a four-month margin, because they said to us: "No, that's what you're asking, there's work, and four months from now. We asked for three months, as we could have said three days or three weeks; what we wanted was to cut somewhere. They gave us the word that in four months this would be done, and it seems normal to wait to see what remains. That four months from now, the warmest in the water, let's go back there, there's no resources, there's no sanctioning rule? So, yeah, maybe it's time to take the span and take a proposition from her like this. But right now, you'll forgive me, the sooner it looks like you're trying to point yourself at it or punch the government in the face, which I won't be the one to argue with or get him out of my head, huh? I mean, I can thank myself, can't I? But let's just say that in this case it's a little bit of a note. Let's go to the contents of the law. Besides this ass-to-ass thing, man, I'll tell you a little something cordially the same thing I said to VOX's lords: don't glue – don't glue. That you sometimes bar the defense of people's rights, vulnerable, vulnerable and threatened collectivities..., you don't know how, this gives the jump to pride..., pride that sometimes consists of stoned people from other parties that also try to share this pride in demonstrations. And here I leave it, because it seems to me that everyone knows what we're talking about, right, fellas? In short, we move from activism to pride, and pride to militarization, sometimes, from these things, which I don't think is a service. Say, you see, I don't think all lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes, intersexuals, share in a hundred_per_cent the ideological agenda of you, which can be very respectable or not, but I do seem that you try, so, not so much to read as bibles, not so much to do politics as to mark the step. Clearly, reading carefully your law proposal, for example, you attribute to Western culture all the evils of the LGTBI collection. It's still a good thing that in ancient Persia, present-day Iran, they're treated much better than here. I mean, of course, we're not so naive either. I mean, it's not a problem, isn't it... that there's colonialism in the world? Yeah. That in the world there is capitalism? Yeah. But we don't make a pot, because that looks like the previous motion, doesn't it? With the war in Ukraine, the pandemic and the law of costs. I mean, you see, I think he's got to work... he's got to put a little bit of a stake in these themes and not do so much thick lettering. You insist very, quite rightly, but you're also a fan, let's just say, a little bit, pick a mess, because clearly, regret, let's say, that the sanctioning regime of this law has arrived late, or so, that the Penal Code has passed to the front. Then it is not very clear if they know it hard, let's say, that one thing punishes her the Penal Code and prefers that she is punished administratively. They dedicate, go, a page and put to the theme of the flag, that, well, without taking care of it, then, they will tell me. And it's fascinating the detail with which they describe minor offences, heavy offences, and, go, general intolerance displays. Miri, believe me, is fantastic, infractions between 300 and 10,000_euros; heavy between 10,000 and 40,000; infractions very heavy between 40,001 and 500,000_euros. Look, if all the attacks I've suffered in my life were, let's just say, to be a member of the LGTBI collection and not to be a member of other vulnerable collections, which to you seems to be the same, I'd already have a house in Pedralbes. I mean, they could come and take care of it any day they get it right. I really... [[Some applause.]] Let's see, no one imagines I'm trying to frivolize these issues. It's just that it seems to me that it's your proposal that frivolitistizes it. Say, you see, you, for example, come to propose something that Spain has only approved for kale borroka, which is that parents pay for the children's fines when there are acts of intolerance or aggression. Well, that's what I remember in the context that was implemented, and if implemented in the second five contexts, the youths of your party would go through it badly and their parents wouldn't arrive at the end of the month, for a lot of extra money. [[Some applause.]] That said, I repeat, well, so... Oh, certainly another one. You're against reverse therapies, which, you know, sounds pretty good to me, looks civil. From the fifties it is known that reverse therapies are a scientific and psychological disarray, but clearly, they have written it so badly that they almost penalize a person who transitions, who is modified. I mean, watch out for this, because, let's just say, this, second to second, you can turn them around. And, well, summarizing: so, what seems to us, well, a political maneuver to capitalize on any progress that is made in the governmental or parliamentary sphere in defense of the LGTBI collection, so invoked and so little attested. I guess from here on out eight years maybe we'll get back together and talk about it again. And I'm telling you, it would be nice to have a little bit more common sense and liberalism on these issues, and a little bit less excesses, both in one side of the bench and the other. Thank you. Good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.202.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.203.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'm doing it from the seat. I am not going to extend much, because, moreover, I think it is impossible to overcome any of the speeches we have heard today. I don't want to compete in that direction either. But it is true that we would like this debate... I also take advantage, that I have not done so, to greet the members of the Observatory against Homophobia who are accompanying us today. I would therefore like a little bit to move this debate away from the various perspectives of the political agendas that each of the groups may have, including the group that brings this proposal. We too agree that this is not the right time to bring forward this proposal. Perhaps before opening the working group, yes, because it is true that for a long time we have claimed that the law that we were able to pass in 2014, which was a pioneering law, it is true, that it remained half. It was true that it remained on paper and that, therefore, the content of that law needed to be deployed. But it is true that, well, there was a time when this Parliament also got to work with this working group listening to the experts and we would like to be able to have those conclusions and perhaps not to double the work in that direction, if today, then this proposal passes the first step, which I have been able to hear seems to be. We are going to be able to open that presentation, we are going to listen again to the experts on this subject; it is never much, of course, but it is working in parallel, because it seems to us a little sterile, in this sense, that it will not contribute to speeding up the matter, that I believe it is the objective you have when you bring this law here, if it is not, I insist, to put on the medal and mark your own ideological agenda and that of the rest of the parties. Well, we from the People's Group are interested in making a useful, responsible, serious opposition, and for that there is nothing more to see the data for. It is true that there has been an increase in LGBTI-phobic aggressions. Seeing last year's data, for example, of the 230 hate crimes, forty percent were related to the LGTBI-phobia and attacked the LGTBI collective. They are data, they are on the table and, therefore, I believe that, with that, they are data that are indisputable and that we have to do something about it. It is not clear to me that a sanction procedure is the solution in this respect, because I believe that there are causes that go far beyond the fact that we do not have a sanction procedure right now. They're structural causes. The issue must certainly be addressed from a much more cross-cutting perspective, involving many more departments. And, therefore, I believe that the subject, therefore, requires, above all, an in-depth study. It is not wrong for us to open this paper, taking into account also those possible competition conflicts that have already been discussed by some other group. It is true that right now it can co-ordinate with other regulations. As I said, in 2014 it was a pioneering law, but it is true that there has been a normative advance also from other administrations, from other stages, but there has also been an advance in society and in the street, I insist, which make us therefore worry and deal with the increase of these aggressions directed specifically towards the LGBTI collective. Therefore, we believe today that the paper will be launched, we will participate in it and hope that we can find, I insist, a cross-cutting solution, therefore, to end this increase in hate crimes in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.204.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.205.0	Well, good afternoon. Now I'd give it to the president that I'd try not to run out of time, because I find it fatal. I hope it's not covid. I had a test this morning and he gave me a denial, but... not because I didn't deserve it, but because it's not my best day, so to speak. Well, thank you very much, President. Counselors, public – especially the observer and the platform – who accompany us, deputies... Do not need to be lesbian, transgender, gay, bisexual or intersex to defend the rights of a law that guarantees the rights of these people, of this collection, in the same way that it only needs to be democratized to oppose strictly any proposal that comes from the extreme right, as is the case in this case the threat to the totality of this law. The message to the totality that they want to detail right, allow discrimination, persecution, and, therefore, go so far as to vote against this call to the totality of this law so that it follows its parliamentary course, as we have always done and as we will always do until it ends with the extreme right. The Law 11/2014 object of this amendment, of proposed amendment of the Law, was approved October 2014 with the eighty-yes_per_cent of the votes of this chamber; therefore, with a vast majority. It was, as on many other occasions, a pioneer law in the Spanish State, the first law of these characteristics. So, the right is presenting a statement to the totality. You've done the extreme right, but you make the same arguments. Denial of the existence of discrimination and violence against homosexuals, bisexuals or trans is a permanent constant of the most reactionary sectors of our society. In that case, too, on the one hand of the Catholic Church, who opposed it by the mouth of the Archebisbat of Barcelona. But wrongly the facts deny them the reason. A few weeks ago, thanks to the excellent TV3 Crimes program, we had the opportunity to remember the assassination of Sonia Rescalvo, a few meters from here. When we killed her, there wasn't any specific legislation that you regulated this hate crime scene. And let's remember, too, the Spanish police and the Supreme Court were in charge of the rest, undermining the crime and bringing down the guilty party's sentence. Even though there is – and now there is the Councillor of the Interior – a special element, in the first place, to the civic collaboration, which helped, and very much, to solve the case, and also to the Mossos d'Esquadra, because it was the first crime of these characteristics that managed the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia and that they solved. From then on, attacks with LGBTI-phobic motivation have not stopped to grow, unfortunately, and to a large extent thanks to the normalization of hate speech that makes the extreme right, not only in this Parliament, and almost with impunity. And it says almost with impunity, because there are places where fortunately these practices are not tolerated. This Parliament and its president are a good example of ending hate speech. In fact, from the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Members, when we collect the Minutes of Parliament, must sign "yes or "no to a box where we undertake to travel for a work environment free of sexism, LGTBI-fóbia, psychological or sexual settlement. There are eleven Members who have not signed it, who have asked them not to age for a free environment of sexism, LGTBI-phobia, psychological or sexual settlement. It is precisely the eleven Members of the extreme right who have presented this issue, and precisely the eleven Members who never participate in the Labour Group against LGBTI-phobia who have been listening to the collections and institutions to deepen the situation and find solutions. And no, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right, the rights are not gender ideology, they are not required, they are not modes, they are not part of the agenda; the rights are defended. I'd have the facts contradict the negationists, and the dice prove it. Thus, for example, in Catalonia, LGBTI-fobic aggressions have increased by 70 per cent and discriminatory acts have spread by 50 per cent compared to 2021, according to the Observers' data against Homophobia. If the assassination of the Sonia favours the structuring and consolidation of trans groups existing at that time through the transsexual collection of Catalonia, for example, the subsequent struggle of the whole movement favors the emergence of an innovative legal framework that assumed a prior and a subsequent defence of its rights, both in the public and private spheres, because the creation of this law made possible the knowledge of problems that were hidden and unsolved. The possibility of denouncing or making a complaint to the competent bodies has enabled the light to be drawn on the difficulties of the LGBTI people, the difficulties they encounter in their daily lives, and for this reason to build solutions that can, moreover, solve individual problems, held to the abst..., and, therefore, promote structural changes to public administrations and Catalan society. This is why it has regulated for so many years various aspects in diverse fields such as the world of work, education, health care, social services, communication media or family realities. Among other things, it created a comprehensive service to respond to rape situations; it collected awareness-raising and recognition actions and support for non-discrimination. The text also established a system of infringements and sanctions that includes fines, temporary or definitive disqualifications from a company's activity, as well as public financing prohibitions, while these sanctions can also be updated, and I believe that this is, moreover, an important issue to be dealt with when changing the law. The mechanisms to ensure the application of this law, among others, pass through the existence of the National Council of Lesbians, Gais, Bisexuals, Transgender and Intersexuals of Catalonia, as well as, for example, the coordinating organ of the LGBTBI policies of the Generality of Catalonia, and now, in particular, the Department of Equality and Feminisms. In short, the impact of this legal tool has been of great importance in trying to achieve an equality of rights that is often seen to be violated, violated, ignored in real life. This series, seen in perspective, the balance of a pioneering law that one September 2016 punishes administratively, for the first time, some homophobic insults in Catalonia – and from here to remember Constellera Bassa, who was the first to impose a sanction of this type. As we have seen, Law 11/2014 covered a social void that until then remained outside the scope of current legislation and, consequently, condemned the legal lack of protection of practices that had already begun to be frequent. Unfortunately, in time the falcon has grown bigger. It is reasonable to believe, because the data so show and so ask the criteria, that it is necessary to make an update of this law, an adaptation of the contents that update the legislative referrals and the legal texts that have been partly obsolete. We were pleased, therefore, that this bill was also made from the political consensus and not from a unilateral initiative of the CUP Group, because I believe that from the political consensus we can grasp and contain the majorities that such an important law needs. The successive modifications of the Criminal Code, especially for the crime of hatred, and also the recent approval of Law 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, open the door to review and adapt the text with the aim of harmonising the anti-discrimination rights of Catalonia. That is why social consensus, consensus with entities is also important; for example, that you come up with a consensus from the LGTBI National Council through a resolution to the plenary to guarantee this maximum consensus, as had already been done in 2014. And, therefore, from here too ask, re-ask this social consensus for this change. But, in the band of awareness of the need to legally collect the extension of the rights of the new realities of the collection, we also believe that the enlargement, the modification, is not only through the expansion of the catalogue of personal identities, but also the parallel path that must follow the discriminations and the attacks that are called for to update the sanctions, all directly linking it to the repair of the damage done to victims and to the new practices of restorative justice. Very important is the fact that it is done to the cross-sectional look and to the real equality to update this law. And I also believe that it is important, in this set of measures that have taken place before 2014, to schedule the updating of Law 11/2014, to combine it with the trans law that is being prepared, and that, therefore, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , all agree and defend the real needs of the collection – and I finish, President – with the objective, obviously, to end the discrimination of the LGTBI collection and, if it can be, to end the extreme right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.206.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.207.0	Thank you, President. I also hope there's no covid, Madaula, [[the speaker laughs]] 'Cause they don't clean the bugs right now. Good afternoon to everyone. I'd like to start, like all the companies, by saying hello to the observer and to the platform and to understand. We're here to talk about the modification of a law that pioneered, they said, that it was made from the consent of entities and political parties, that it was an important law and that it was eight years ago of that law, right? The extreme right spoke of the laws that speak of the common good, and the problem is that, historically, this common good, this common thing was the heteronoma, and, therefore, obviously, no? When it is assumed that it is common there, that it is universal there, that it leaves much of the population on the margins, we need all people to have their rights recognized and, therefore, we need specific laws to be able to deal with all these great things. Because, in fact, here the deputy of Ciutadans spoke of – I would like to do it in catalá to normalize that we also have and can have language included – « your children, right? And we're talking real people, real problems, real material problems. And, therefore, I think it's good that we can talk about a series of laws, not from theorization, that, in fact, of the trans-exploded movements of times we lose ourselves in theorization and we don't talk about real people with real, specific problems, that need specific public policies. I'll try to pick up a little bit of all the stuff that went down. It is true that we have at these times a number of things on the march: we have, for a band, the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, which was approved by the last legislature, almost at the end, almost a year ago, and, therefore, the deployment is at these times on the march with the office; the Labour Group on LGTBI-phobia is also on the march; we also have at the march of the government the law on the trans, and, as they announced, that we negotiated that these four_months can be agreed, also the sanctioning rule of the equal treatment and non-discrimination law is on the march. And, to try to be as constructive as possible... we talked about the suitability of this change, so whether it's done with consent, if it's not done with consent, whether we should finish the work group first or not. I believe that, for one group, many of us, our parliamentary groups, have our own agendas. You're obvious, aren't you? , that at these times, as I said, we have so many things in the way– such as the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, such as the working group, such as the law passed from the government, such as the sanctioning rule–, it is obvious that we add another pot more to develop. And, therefore, for one band, we can keep our agenda, but it is also obvious that, from the entities and also from the opposition, there is another agenda, and that we too must be able to collect all these petitions. And, therefore, for one band, there is the deployment, which belongs to the Government; for another band, there is the Parliament, and it would like to be, as I said, right? , as positive as possible. Why? Because the last legislature we did exactly the same with the law against male violence, which also, from the parliamentary group of the commons, from the opposition, was made a proposal for amendment, which was probably not on the political agenda at that time of that legislature, and, even so, I have the feeling that it was one of the laws, of the most important legislative production of the last legislature. And so, once we get here, I think the most productive thing is that we have the ability to overcome our political agendas and get to work, that's what we'll do; that, beyond whether it was on our agenda or not, whether it was our priority or not, what we'll do will be exactly the same as we did with the male-violation law: leave us - there's the hair. Therefore, in positive: all laws are better. And I think it's very important, considering that we're talking about a 2014 law..., we're talking about eight years. I think they're not eight years old, but they're the eight years of consciousness, social and cultural self-consciousness, and also the politics of feminism, anti-racism, anti-fitism, and struggle for the rights of the LGTBI collection, I think they're stronger than ever. And, therefore, in these eight years there are some of the readings that we have made of many laws that can become obsolete. Why? Probably, because, when we talk about reviewing the law of equality between men and women, when we talk about the LGTBI law, when we reformed the law of 2018 against male violence, we agree that this look..., that I know that the company of the CUP does not like the word "intersectional", because we may already be small to use it mass, but it is clear that this look, that it is a look that black feminisms have incorporated from the eighty..., but it is true that, today, it is a look that we have incorporated into political and social consensus and in the race. And, therefore, I think it's important that when we do these reforms... and the CUP's proposal with the observer goes on this line of action, right? , that the rights of the LGTBI collection are not incompatible with an anti-feixist, anti-racist, feminist struggle..., also always said the Tània councilwoman, that public feminist policies without anti-racist gaze or against the LGTBI-fòbia are useless. And, therefore, all these proposals that wander in the line of expanding horizons, modifying and making this more inclusive look are welcome. We'll also have to go with it, precisely because we have all these pots in operation, right? , to harmonize; we must be able to harmonize all these laws – from 2014 until now we have made important passes, right? But above all take into account that there is equal treatment law and non-discrimination, that it was the umbrella against discrimination. And, therefore, we will have to go into the matter at the time of amending Law 11/2014, of being able to harmonize it and do it as best as possible. About restorative policies – now that we are talking about sanctioning rules – I think it's important – that many times we don't forget, don't we? – when we talk about these structural rapes, such as male violence, such as LGBTI-phobia, such as racism, we have sometimes had the feeling that they were left in the private sphere and, therefore, that the solution was also private. Therefore, as we begin to assume this German, I also believe, "the Generality also believes, "the Parliament also believes, right? I think it's important that we talk about restorative policies that go beyond punishment, that go beyond fines, and that go beyond punitiveism. Above all – the Basha campaign said so – because, if not, we do not transform. And we talk these days, too, don't we? , on abolitionism, on prohibitionism. It's just that if we don't have a transformative look at society, the only one we're going to be putting pieces and chasing and leaving more people on the fringes that are already there. Therefore, we positively value this anti-racist view of the CUP proposal. Also, the other day, in the working group..., which, of course, takes advantage of the fact that there are parliamentary groups here from the right and the ultra-right that never come; so that we do not want to go because we have the question and the working group on the way, because perhaps they can sort out who they come from; they will not have to duplicate speeches or appearances. We talked about it the other day, didn't we? , precisely of the fundamental rights, of the asylum and of the refuge of the people of the LGTBI collection, that it is a look that perhaps, sometimes, when we speak of the anti-racist gaze and of the people LGTBI, we speak of the people who are already there, but when we speak of the asylum, that they are also competitions of Igalatat and Feminisms or we speak of the refuges, therefore, it is important also to have this look against the LGTBI-phobia. The other day, too, the prosecutor was speaking to us in favor, and I think it would be very important for some parliamentary groups to deny many of these rapes coming to the work group, because I think they would be very productive, and in fact, we had the proposal to bring it to Equality and Feminisms, which there is no shortage, because the prosecutor can explain to them that the laws are important that they are specific. Because obviously we want to protect all people and obviously discriminations and rapes are the same if they are for the LGTBI collection, if they are racialized people, are women or other vulnerable collectivities. Of course, they're all reprehensible. But at the time of addressing them and repairing them, we need specific public laws and policies. I ended up talking about the LGTBI lobby and the feminist lobby and the anti-racist lobby and the anti-feixist lobby. So good these lobbyists have the hegemony of power that the patriarchal lobby has, that it's the one that's been governing us historically. [[some applause]] If you're going to die again, you're going to die again. That's what you say in the LGTBI lobby, I say in the community. And we've got it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.208.0	Well, the debate is over, for which I also do not know whether they must have realized that there has been a disparity of time..., there have been groups that have given themselves to the verbal agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, like the proposed group, that had given him the fifteen minutes and the intervener said to me: "No, the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen was five minutes. And, on the other hand, there are other groups that have read the Minutes, which certainly for a mistake – the Minutes of the Board of Spokesmen – granted two minutes to parliamentary groups. Therefore, there have been three parliamentary groups that have done so with five minutes, three parliamentary groups that have done so with two minutes and one parliamentary group that has done so from the start, with still less than five minutes, plus the group of the emena to the total. Therefore, regret this fact and apologize to the proposing group, because it has been granted the verbal agreement of the Board of Spokespersons and has had less time than the rest of the groups. And so, after this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The vote begins. This vote on the whole was 11 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 2 abstentions. As the challenge to totality has been rejected, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government about its policy to support workers under the special regime of self-employed workers]] [[300-00180/13]] And let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about its policy to give support to the workers registered to the special regime of autonomous workers, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX introduced. He has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.209.0	Thank you very much, President. We started this interpellation, so, doing... well, anyway, curious, didn't we? What's happened. It says, well, it is an inquiry presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, we are going to talk about the autonomous– nothing more and nothing less than five hundred thousand people in Catalonia who make their living like this–, and suddenly, pum, the Chamber disappears. Bad image – bad image. If there has been a driving force throughout this more than a year's term of office in all the political action that it has put forward and defended VOX in this Parliament, it has been talking about the real problems of Catalans. Here we have not brought proposals to talk about the memory of witches or try to solve the world problem of cryptocurrencies, without competence. We try to focus on those issues on which we have at least some competence and which affect the real issues of Catalans, don't we? If you look at these questions and the proposals that we have been defending this year, then we have talked about the growing insecurity of the citizen, the problems brought us by Islamism that lead us to the Caminito de Saint-Denis, the fiscal hell to which you are subjecting us, the waste in separatist political bars, the poor social services offered by the Generalitat and, of course, issues linked to the economy and the prosperity of families. In that line today – and that is why we have brought this inquiry – to speak of autonomous. It is not normal for this Parliament to talk about the autonomous, but we think it is an important reality. It is not common – it is not common –, there are usually no initiatives in this regard, and we think it is good that we address this issue, as it is an absolutely forgotten collective, poorly treated and in the weather of the respective crises that we have been suffering. Before we enter into the moaning of the interpellation, then, we would like to thank the effort, the tession, the patience, the spirit of overcoming the autonomous, true backbone of the Catalan economy. We must remember, as you well know, that self-employed people play their heritage, play their present, play their future, receive virtually no aid of any kind, have virtually no rights to social benefits worthy of mention, and to carry out a business idea and generate employment they have many difficulties. Therefore, one cannot talk about economy without remembering the work of this important collective in Catalonia. Here much we fill our mouths with the word entrepreneurship, but we do not help or help the self-employed who undertake very little. You just have to talk to some self-employed person on the street or have been self-employed for a few years to know firsthand that most of them are orphaned by help, that they are having a really bad time and that they work hard to get very little. Counselor, you have to help them – really, you have to help them. We know perfectly well that some of the powers that affect them are in the hands of the State and others are in the hands of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And you can do a lot more than you do. Frankly, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we think they're not doing enough. They are suffering in the first line of fire, in quotes, economic crises, the breakdown of the supply chain, cloud inflation, the price of crazy energy, the price of so many raw materials that they use for their productive processes. And there's practically no support for them here. Moreover, they suffer a stupid and suffocating bureaucracy that has to be resolved: a fiscal policy that is suffocating them and that, as I said before, receives very little, after many, many hours of work every day. Many, tired, end up throwing the towel and dynamitating their way of earning bread and destroying their dreams. And we can't consent to that. We have to support them so that they can be formed, reinvented, fully recycled. We have to be there when things get ugly, extend the poor average life of the majority of autonomous projects in Catalonia and we have to apply a reasonable tax policy on them. Governments cannot continue to treat the self-employed as if they were their ATM. No, no, A lot of people can't do it anymore, that's why they fall. That is why Andalusia already surpasses Catalonia in the number of autonomous. VOX does not assume as its own that looting, plundering and economic ill-treatment to which the administrations are subjected. Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Torrent, take advantage of the influence you have in Madrid to ask for Netflix in Catalan or to ask for those things so brilliant that you go and ask there, take advantage of that opportunity you have of influence there to help the self-employed. It cannot be that you do don Tancredo while the minister writes the machaca with a bestial increase in social contributions and that you do not say anything, continue with your things about your Pegasus and do not talk about that question that is absolutely central to the economy, to five hundred thousand people in Catalonia; that the competition law, etc., be improved. There are many things you can do and we will put them in black over white in the motion as a result of the interpellation. Mr Torrent, help the self-employed so that they can cope with the increase in electricity, gas, butane, gasoline. Stop imposing higher costs on them as a result of hiring workers. Stop pushing bureaucracy, inspections, fines, mobility restrictions and stupid weather rules. They help those self-employed people who are lying on the street to work without fear of getting stabbed in two. They support those merchants who are tired of seeing how the mafias of keeping you make disloyal competition in their noses. They cut off from the roots with the insecurity of the citizen, who is also destroyed the image of Catalonia, and park the phobia tourism that characterizes much of the left of Barcelona. They really support the proximity trade, help them digitize, support them to have quick and urgent access to the digital kit, which they are not accessing. And do everything possible, from the financial point of view, so that they are not treated as pseudocriminals every time an autonomous goes to a financial institution to be financed. These are issues that you can do, in addition to leading a real tax cut speaking with the municipalities, which also much of municipal taxation is affecting the lives and competitiveness of the Catalan autonomous. And I'd like to dedicate 20 seconds to the transporters, which is a sector that's having a really bad time. For the most part, autonomous co-operatives who are forced to change their vehicles for Mrs. Colau's infamous policy that does not allow them to enter Barcelona. By the way, they are carriers who are suffering a real hell, who have been working at losses for many months, with fuel in maximums, with the price of trucks also absolutely fired and with absolutely poor wages. And there the Government of the Generalitat also has to do things. Because do you miss the fact that there are no drivers? Does it surprise you that there is no generational relief in this sector? Mr Torrent, more than half a million people are waiting for solutions, powerful concrete actions and not words. They want to be allowed to breathe so they can work. And I insist, huh? , within the scope of its powers, You can do many things, but you can also go to Madrid and take advantage of that capacity of influence that you have in the government of Pedro Sánchez, who usually kneels to his requests. Well, do it with some question that makes reference to the improvement of the lives of the self-employed. We must also remember the pallet, the farmer, the plumber and the bookstore. It seems good to me that you always talk about the start-up, with glamour, and it seems good to me, of the big companies. You talk a lot about big companies and start-ups. All right, but many times there is a lack of defense for the taxi driver, the "palette, eh? , to the real backbone of autonomous tissue in Catalonia. I mean, we ask you to land, we ask you realpolitik, we will ask you in the motion..., well, if you want to then in the reply I will detail it more, but we will ask you to really get the European funds to the autonomous – who are not coming, and look how long we have been talking about this issue –, that they are aimed at helping micro-enterprises. That in order to obtain a grant of EUR 1 000 there is no need to fill in two_1 000 official documents. Let them check the conditions. Let them talk to the municipalities so that in order to obtain a license of works or activity we do not take years so that an autonomous can sometimes get it; that is a real madness, from an economic point of view. And help them to combat energy poverty, which, by the way, also requires action in this regard. In short, they are the seeds of the business fabric. They must be appreciated, accompanied, assisted and helped. And that's not what the Government of the Generalitat is doing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.210.0	The word has the business and work advisor, Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.211.0	Thank you, President. The deputy who asked the question was complaining that the deputies and the deputies were missing at the time of this question, which was just now talking about self-government, self-employment, the deputies were missing. It's not about the subject, it's not about the question of the inquiry, but it's because... who does it, huh? The extreme right, which has come out here and the only one that has done is a collection of topics, some of which are racist and xenophobic, which do not bring anything at all. [[Some applause.]] If an autonomist has listened to what the honourable Member has said, he has brought him absolutely nothing, beyond a collection of topics, to which they unfortunately already have us accustomed. Let's talk about autonomous work. In Catalonia, in fact, there are 560,000 people affiliated to the special system of self-employed workers, 600_per_cent of whom represent negotiations at the personal level, the majority of whom in the tertiary sector– in fact, more than seventy-five_per_cent in the tertiary sector–, 12 and a half percent in the construction sector, the seven_per_cent in industry and four_per_cent in agriculture. This is the composition of the autonomous work in our country, which, of course, also has in this area a brethx of gender: only thirty-six per cent of the people affiliated to the autonomous workers' regime are women. Therefore, here too, as in the rest of the working world, there is a very obvious bretxa of genere on which to act. This, I say, is the composition of the place of autonomous work in our country, which, by the way, has already passed the data from before the covid. Today in Catalonia there are already more people affiliated to this regime than there were before the pandemic. And this increase is due to many things, some of which are shared with the rest of the economic sectors and the rest of the patterns of occupation or self-occupation, and some of the specifics of the self-employment sector, which, in fact, has very important degrees of resilience and which are the ones that have endured, in many cases, the situation that has been given over the last two years. Among all these elements that explain this increase in affiliations, there is, of course, the effort made for the country's business fabric, for the joint venture of the country's business fabric. Because many times it's not just the one that can make one or one autonomous for itself, just like medium-sized and large businesses, and also peppers, that run the economy together in certain sectors and that also helps them to follow the rhythm of those autonomous ones. Therefore, the behavior of the country's product web joint has helped. On the other hand, the consumption estimates, to some of which we have contributed decisively from the Government of the Government of Catalonia precisely to overcome the situation of covid, of pandemic, and to recover the economic activity during this 2022..., in good part of 2021, but specifically 2022. He has also helped with the willingness to work together and social dialogue with social workers in the country. A good part of this dialogue and concertation has included some of the direct aids – of which I will talk about now – that have directly impacted the collection. And, obviously, this, as I said, has been granted to the social workers of the country, who, in this sense, have also helped and joined this vocation to get out of the situation of the covid, from the crisis resulting from the pandemic, without leaving any sector, without leaving anyone behind, without leaving no one behind. And, finally, two elements that are cabdal; obviously, direct aids – I was commenting, I will now specify – and active employment policies. For what it does to direct aid to the affected sectors, the Government of the Government of Catalonia has made the most efforts – who has made the most efforts – from the joint efforts of the administrations of all the territories of the Spanish State to help the workers most affected by the situation of the covid. Who has made the most economic effort, among others, with direct help to workers and self-employed workers. In fact, even more than he planned for the first time. We are planning direct help to the autonomes of EUR 519 million, and in the end, with four calls distributed between 2020 and 2021, 804 million euros have been mobilised. The territory of the State that you help most in this sense has done, that have benefited 578,000 people of our country, because here, obviously, we add the autonomes, but also other realities like the workers and workers in ERTO situation derived from the covid-19. However, for which it does exclusively for the self-employed and self-employed, aid has been deployed to compensate for economic losses during, for example, 2020 and 2021 for a value of €659_million; 804, in the conjunction of the affected collections, 659 specifically for the self-employed. Therefore, it is absolutely lied that there is no need to help the sector. On the contrary, EUR 659 million; EUR 659 million of aid before this rule, of this collection of topics that came to tell us here at the Faristol. Direct aid to the account of these workers and self-employed workers, who must be added to those who have also been deployed as a result of the Royal Decree 5/2021, in order to help the companies with solvency, which we have deployed during all these months, with a endowment of 993_million euros, almost 1,000_million euros of aid to the companies and self-employed people affected, with a degree of execution consistent with the other self-employed communities, especially respecting Andalusia, which you mentioned here in the Faristol. In another autonomous community, except for the Islands, which had a different regime of implementation of this Royal Decree 5/2021, it has mobilized so many help to businesses and self-governments. Mobilization record, these 993_million euros of aid to business solvency. That's what we've done so far: EUR 804 million to the affected collection, EUR 659 to the self-employed, and EUR 993 to the credit of the companies. There are 3,000 million euros mobilized in aid to the most affected sectors; the territory of the Spanish State has made the most efforts in this regard. But let's not stop, because our vocation, obviously, was to get out of the crisis situation without anyone being left out. But that's what we've done, we've deployed the last few months, and now what we're dealing with, with this will to transform our country's product model, is to continue helping the collection of self-employed workers. Basically in two concrete areas: of one band, training, absolutely necessary in this framework of structural changes that we are living – how we help the workers to adapt to the new requirements, to the new skills, to the knowledge they need to continue feeling competitive – and, on the other hand, help to self-occupation and contract. Therefore, training and help self-occupation and contracting. In the first of these areas, we have deployed, through the Consortium for Continuing Training in Catalonia, EUR 91 million in different programmes: mixed programmes, for example, of orientation and training specifically addressed to self-employed workers, with EUR 26 million; formative programmes of formal training expertise, with EUR 9 million, aimed above all at bringing about the certificates of professionalism, absolutely necessary to be deployed in the world of work. Speciality training programmes in the non-formal training offer; here we deploy €32 million to improve the most transversal and also more sectoral skills: more transversal, for example, in the field of digitalisation; more sectoral, for example, in the field of energy transition. For another band, we are also deploying the format programs from Europe, European funds, React funds, with 23_million euros. All this, for what it does to the formation, absolutely necessary and claimed for the collection. But, in addition, we are, as I said, deploying programs to help self-employment and contracting that now does not give me time to explain, but then I will explain [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] - No, no, no, Because, before the collection, I repeat again, of the stories and lies he said, the best are the facts. And we can present here a list of facts; on the one hand, I have already done it; on the other, I will do it in the second part of my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.212.0	Thank you very much. Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.213.0	All right, Mr. Torrent. I believe that what I explained in the first part of the intervention was not topical. They are realities contrasted after many conversations with autonomous people, after having lived it myself in the first person also, of course; talking with the collectives and entities that defend autonomous people in Catalonia... I have not invented anything. They're not topics. By the way, his intervention was from Seneca. Mine, topics; and yours... come on, you discovered penicillin today, with your intervention. Really, it's surprising, huh? , his inexplicable political narcissism. Look, the extreme right... this is a classic, you always pull that off, don't you? He says: "Well, as I no longer know what to say, so..., the far right. Look, we're not going to accept democracy lessons from a gentleman who's going to testify on July 12th out of disobedience. [[Some applause.]] We will not accept democratic lessons from a gentleman who participated in a coup d'état judged and condemned. We are not going to accept democratic lessons from gentlemen who trample half the Catalan language. We're not going to accept democracy lessons from a gentleman who tramples..., is part of a government that tramples on the right to vaccinate national police and civilian guards, too, as he's condemned. We are not going to accept democratic lessons from gentlemen who are hoarse and applauding the fact that roads and airports are being cut off. We will not accept lessons of democracy from those who applauded the « presseu and the barricades that turned the world around and that so damaged the image of Catalonia. And we are not going to accept democratic lessons from some gentlemen who have spent the last few years in prison because some judges have said that they had participated in a serious sedition crime. So, really. [[some applause]] , lessons, the fair ones. On the 12th, in court, we'll talk about your case, about disobedience. I'll see you there. You are not to give lessons in democracy, you are not to give lessons in democracy, either. Let's go back to the autonomous, which is the important thing, because you always go to the extreme right and to the four canteens and to the four adjectives these to see if they scare four older ladies, to four elderly women: "Oh, that the bad guys come, that comes the right... Finally, get over the topic, because for topic you, with legs – topic with legs, eh? Less bureaucracy. I'll explain it to you again. I'm going to repeat the topics, and – I don't know – maybe there's one left. More digitisation; less bureaucracy; less paperwork; time for business and construction licences; help to plant for inflation, energy and raw materials; European funds for self-employed and micro-enterprises, which are not coming. If you say yes... He says: "Man, something has come. Man, of course, 4,000_millions of public debt after and 2,000_millions that have come to you from the Government of Spain... Man, is that, after 6,000_millions, here, if nothing has arrived... You speak to me..., presume how many? Six hundred? All right, but, hey, they're not coming. Go to the street and talk to self-employed people. More security: improving the image of Barcelona; stop tourismophobia; financing of the Institut Català de Financiers. Can He Do More Things? Of course. Is the React coming to the autonomous? No, no, Can you do something in Madrid to prevent Minister Escriva from raising social contributions, as you plan to do? I don't know, I haven't heard anything about this. It seems to me to be a central issue for the economy and for the lives of the self-employed. Can you say whether you are going to take advantage of your influence to discuss this issue? Because there are five hundred thousand autonomous people who are very concerned about this issue in Catalonia. If Esquerra can do anything... I've asked her clearly, huh? Training.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You were saying, "Well, that's it. All right. Hey, by the way, the Consolidated't program, right? It's all right: recycling... a million euros. You can put more on, can't you? I mean, you spend 35_million on institutional propaganda for the media to say you're great. One million euros, 1,040,000_euros, for the recycling of self - employed persons? Man, I think you can do a lot more. They're not about to throw rockets. Only 162 self-employed had benefited. Of the 500,000 autonomous people in Catalonia, only 162 have benefited from this programme. Well, a little... a little embarrassing, isn't it? And that they do everything they can to prevent the self-employed from continuing to suffer mobility restrictions and stupid weather rules that are suffocating them. I have repeated the topics again, to see if anyone suits you. And we would have liked to participate in the National Pact for Industry, because we have speech, we have message, we can bring things. I regret that your bitterness and hatred of our formation are so important that we are omitted from such an important issue. It's about the July 12 trial. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.214.0	In the replica turn, has the word the advisor Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.215.0	Thank you again, Congressman. It seemed to me that talking about self-government was a pure excuse to do what you came here to do afterwards, to throw up what you threw up right now here and to talk about courts, which is the only one you know how to talk about, to threaten those we've defended democracy, which you can talk about everything. Mr. Deputy, here in the Parliament of Catalonia we have defended that we can talk about everything. And, indeed, as you say, we will see each other in court, because the only one they know how to do is accuse, threaten and sue the courts to try to suppress the word, to try to suppress the debates in the Parliament of Catalonia. He's devoted another time to all the topics. This time he didn't even hide, he didn't even talk about the autonomies. He's gone all over again, the excuse to be able to talk about the July 12 trial, to threaten me another time, to threaten through me the rest of the deputies and deputies and this institution. And he ate all the time talking about it. I hope there's time to finish buying the Bruce Springsteen concert tickets. [[Rialles.]] Anyway, you came here another time to talk about yours. The autonomes and autonomes are absolutely important to people. They were a pure excuse to do what you just did. And I won't follow. I will actually address the workers and local workers in this country, who do not deserve the intervention you have made, and I will explain it to them, I will just explain to them who are the measures we are taking in the field of occupation and self-occupation, which we would like to be more, certainly, but in any case they are interesting, and which is worth taking advantage of, because, from our point of view, they will effectively help to increase the potential and opportunities of local workers and local workers in this country. He tried to ridicule the Consolida't program, huh? , which is 1_million euros, but up to 540 autonomes of this country – 2022, programmed, 1_million euros. But it's not just the Consolidated Program. There are the European Union's React programs, 19_million euros to promote self-employment; they will reach 1,360 people benefiting from this country. Or the program Tu +1, which wants to boost, precisely, the help to the indefinite contractation. That is to say, an autonomous or an autonomous who wants to hire a person and who has not just arrived because you don't see it clearly, because he doesn't have the possibilities..., so the Administration – in this case, the Generality of Catalonia – will help with the Tu +1 program to encourage this occupation. The dowry with almost 11_million euros and we expect to reach 515 beneficiaries. And the program of occupation for the transformation, with almost 40 million euros destined for the recycling of these workers and self-employed workers, to whom you care people, because, I insist, it has benefited... We could have talked about autonomous people or we could have talked about anything else, because, in the end, what has come to do here is what always does the extreme right, which is... And that's not a topic, it's that we see it every day. It is not that we read it; unfortunately, we see it in the Parliament of Catalonia. We see them and we listen to them, we have to hold them every day, to you, to come here and make the topics of the extreme right. You said, "Listen to me, you come out here to make four stories to see if it scares me, I don't know which citizens of this country, he said. Listen to me, don't worry, because the people of this country, by luck, have memory, and, above all, they have democratic memory, and they have anti-repressive memory, and they know perfectly well what you suppose to be in institutions, and they know perfectly well what you would suppose to rule someday. Luckily, since there's memory, that's never gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.216.0	Let's move on to the eighth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the chronic disinvestment of the State in Catalonia, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. [[Question to the Government on the chronic divestment of the State in Catalonia]] [[300-00188/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.217.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counsellor, welcome to this temple of democracy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have just seen a new episode of a manual vellissim which, unfortunately, has worked in Europe and the world sometimes, which is to use democracy to destroy democracy. That's what this political group does, huh? And he does it explicitly, he doesn't. They want to destroy democracy. This is what they're coming to. [[Some applause.]] That's what they said. That's what they're trying to do. They won't, because we're much more democrats, fortunately. Let's talk about inversions. Let's talk about investments, counselor, and its impact on the country's economy. The global data is disturbing. Effectively, only thirty-yes_per_cent of execution. Is that possible? This global data is, indeed, scandalous, but there are still much more data seen in detail, as we now see, as we now enter it. The headline is clear: the Spanish State in Catalonia runs the thirty-sis_per_cent and in Madrid overruns up to 184_per_cent. More than €2,000_million expected for Catalonia, 739 were executed; in Madrid, just over 1,100_million expected, up to 2,086 were executed. It's not a dungeon. The Department of Economics and History of the University of Barcelona estimated that if, during the period 2002-2017, the expected investments had been implemented, Catalan GDP would have increased by 2.6 points, i.e. approximately €5,800_million. It's a problem that goes from the far, and it's kept, by the way, hands that handles. The data are clear. We talk about the Ministry of Culture, for example, with Miquel Iceta in the front: in Catalonia executes the eighty_per_cent of the presupposition; in Madrid, 131. We talk about the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, with the former mayor of Gavà at the front: Catalonia runs a eighty-yes_per_cent and Madrid overruns a 432_per_cent. Fly! Now they tell us that they are extraordinary data for the rescue of the Madrid radial motorways. As if we do not know that those parties were more than expected, calculated and negotiated, or, worse still, as if we had to accept as normal that the priority is to guarantee the benefits of IBEX in accounts, for example, to invest in rolls. But in any case, what radial highways did Mr. Iceta have to rescue? They go from Prado to Queen Sofia, maybe? I can already announce the Minister of Culture million euros for Catalan culture, because if these millions only add three_de_cada_quatre and in Madrid to spend five_de_cada_quatre, then it is very clear what cultural co-capitality means, when this concept uses it from the State. Of course. All this... we're talking so far only about the General Administration of the State, and it's what's most complete, it's what's still good in photography. When we look at the corporate public sector, things get complicated. The General Administration, itself, actually, has executed about the noranta_per_cent or the noranta and demand percent, which is fine, or is normal, tell us, but it is the business public sector, which assumes the highest investor responsibility to the territories, that has executed the twenty-i-set_per_cent of the assumption. That's to say, who assumes the most responsibility is who fails to fulfil his own obligation. And the incomplete field of assumption and non-execution is the Adif-Renfe conglomerate, counselor. Adif Alta Velocitat, for example, executes..., how much would you say? The 4,6_per_cent of the assumption. Adif, in its conjunction, a twenty-i-three_per_cent. Renfe operator, thirty-four_per_cent. In its conjunction, therefore, a dinosaur_per_cent of the presupposed in Catalonia. That's right, one hundred and fifty percent of the budget in Madrid. I understand that Adif doesn't have to rescue motorways from Madrid or anywhere else, does he? Even though, certainly, the economy of the BOE is still possible, huh? They are indeed extraordinary, as extraordinary as they are unacceptable. Listen to President Sánchez speak of this question to the Senate yesterday, for sure, from shame to indignation. And these execution data, if they come to notice anything, is a certain concrete weakness of the PSC as force, as the party presumably will rise and differ. They had a great opportunity this year, huh? I remember five elements: a few maximum parties in its abyss – certainly, negotiated for Republican Left –; a government dependent on parliamentary arithmetic and Catalan support; in third place, all political justification, say, to invest in Catalonia if they wanted to regain a proper role and popular support; four, they had all the people located in the key places: ministries, presidents of public enterprises, etc., and five, with all this face, the only one they have managed to show their powerlessness and their subordination. In fact, they're penetrating your negative memory. You know the hardest thing about folding – and that affects you directly, counselor, I think? The strategically used, well-used, public investment has a huge multiplier effect: for each public euro invested in it, they can mobilize up to a few private ones, surely. Its incapacity, that of the State, is a direct contribution to stagnation and the non-creation of wealth and social welfare. How many jobs haven't been created? What improvement in the systemic productivity of our economy have we not been able to achieve thanks to the lack of relevant infrastructure? It's an extraordinary flaw that, in any case, needs to contextualize. If we take longer data, from 2015 to 2020, for example, Catalonia is systematically executed between a god and a fifteen_per_cent under the middle. That's to say, it works... if the State does a eighty-eight per cent, Catalonia does it between sixty-five and seventy. It's worth keeping in mind. Because someone might think, "Home, maybe there are administrative problems, there are obstacles, or the legal difficulty of second bidding, and so maybe the means of execution reflects that. But, of course, this cannot explain that in Catalonia this is systematically fifteen points per under and systematically forty-three points per over Madrid, with the same procedures, the same standards and the same rules of the game. We'll be back at 21. As I said, the enforcement of assumptions is extraordinarily negative. Catalonia is forty-five points under the middle and Madrid up to one hundred and three points above the middle. We don't give a shit about the presupposition, about the middle. It's just that they're gonna make any one of them get wrapped up with a little compromise that's no longer an independentist, Catalanist, or federalist, huh? simply with a minimum of institutional loyalty and respect for the Catalan citizenry, to which they so claim to want to represent. This is also, of course, an expression of the proper arguments of unionism, those who say to us: "Wait there and change the laws, if they want a reference, for example. Well, for example, there's a law that we agreed, that we negotiated, the law of assumptions. What's going on? So that in Catalonia this law was fulfilled in a thirty-yes_per_cent and in Madrid it was completed in an 184_per_cent. And this seems to be the central and systemic rule of the political game in our country. By virtue of the fact that, in its day, 2006, we incorporated into the Statute an investment guarantee by means of an additional provision, which establishes that the investment to Catalonia should be matched to the participation in GDP for a period of seven years, the transfer to the Generalitat, directly, of the unexecuted imports. We're still just negotiating and talking about..., this indirect transfer referred to until the year 2008, which increases to 759_million euros and which will end in 2024, is to say, seven years later, and there are still 3,000_million euros left in the period– even though, indeed, for the same concept– from 2009 to 2013. We could now count what it would represent if this clause were in force at these times, what would the natural be? So, if this clause is in force, only from 2015 until now, until 2021, we would be talking about 3,745_millions that we would have to rebre with direct compensatory transfer. So... I'm not talking to him about the assumption under GDP, which is what he would play, but the assumption and not executed, huh? So, if we want to be strict, it's easy to identify where the problem was: who else assumed it was who least spent it; in this case, Adif and Renfe very explicitly. Adif and Renfe had presupposed 600_millions, of which 403 were to be executed by 2020, and 2021 had presupposed 1,461, of which 282 were executed. This inability to carry out the assumption is what explains the expenditure data of 2021. If the bodies that have the obligation to execute spend one_of_each_four euros, it is impossible to achieve a decent level of execution. So that's it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – the thirty-sis_per_cent has already become a symbol of institutional maltreatment. And it still seems worse to me, in a sense: it has become a brand that now defines Spanish and Catalan socialism. Who are they? They're the ones who think that Catalonia has enough money for the third part of what they're talking about, they're the thirty-yes_per_cent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.218.0	It has the word, in the turn of the answer, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.219.0	Thank you again, President. Thank you, Congressman. Actually, we're talking about inversions. And you were looking at it, Member, from the perspective of how to help these investments or not, in the case of their failure, in the competitiveness of a country's economy, in this case, of the Catalan economy. From this perspective, we understand that there are three elements that are key and that explain this potential respect for the economy. On the one hand, the ability of public investment in infrastructure to plan strategically, huh? I mean, which plataforms we need not just to be competitive today, but to position ourselves in a way that is appropriate to the technical changes that are occurring around us. This perspective is always necessary, more at these times, that we are experiencing disruptions from all points of view, particularly from a technological point of view and from an energy transition point of view. The other thing is the reversal itself, I mean, it's not just the planning, it's the execution. There's not enough planning on the assumptions, there's not enough planning; then this has to be landed, it has to be done. And finally, a third element, which is social cohesion: a competitive economy also responds to a high degree of social cohesion. To put it another way, the more cohesive societies, more equal than a social point of view, are also the more likely and the better able to grow from an economic point of view. And, in this perspective, infrastructure is key to improving this social cohesion – then I will enter it. In any case, he said: strategic planning, reversal and social cohesion. From the point of view of strategic planning, here we carry years of planning, decades of planning. The State has resigned from providing those infrastructures, from projecting those infrastructures that are not only the Government of the Generality says that they are responsible for positioning us in the 21st century in a competitive way from the economic perspective, but that the social agents, the employers say, say the trade camres..., in short, say an absolutely broad consensus of the social, economic and academic agents of the country. But it doesn't. Even though there's this consensus, there's this widespread demand, it doesn't happen. And, therefore, we continue to speak day by day also, year by year also, of the Mediterranean Corridor, of the connections of the port of Barcelona, of the port of Tarragona... We live the tortuous history, for example, of the national II to the gironine comarques, or the connection between the AP-7 and the A-2 to Castellbisbal, which has trigato fourteen years to be able to be executed. A connection between two reelings, two fundamental arteries to connect us to Europe in an environment, that of Castellbisbal, of the Baix Llobregat, absolutely industrialized, and, therefore, that it needs these infrastructures to internationalize its economy. For example, it needs this infrastructure..., it needed much before this infrastructure, which has trigat fourteen years to be able to run, a company like CELSA, from which hundreds of trucks each day, and which require connections of this type to connect with these lives that lead us to Europe. Certainly, as we speak of CELSA, we take advantage of the message to ask that it is not possible to cross... that the funds do not cross to make the agreement reached by the direction of the company, because CELSA is key from an industrial point of view, from a point of view of the maintenance of working places, in a region such as the Baix Llobregat and the border of the country. In fact, CELSA itself represents the six_percent of our country's industrial activity. So that's the key. It is the key to defend their work places, and this happens, of course, in order to settle the financing agreements, but also in order to have the necessary infrastructure so that they can be competitive. We carry decades of effort in planning these strategic infrastructures, as long as Foment quantifyes this deficit in €35,000_million. That is to say, if we add up to everything that has not been reversed and planned from this point of view to the last decades of our country, let's sum up, according to Foment, 35,000_million euros accumulated in twelve years – let's imagine if we go further back, let's imagine if we still refer to assumptions prior to these twelve years. And this is the fruit, as I said, Member, of this radial, centralist vision, "the nineteenth, on the part of the State, that does not change governments which governments. Even those who, when they govern, have the opportunity to do the Government of the State what they vote for and say to the Parliament of Catalonia..., it doesn't happen, it never happens. And, therefore, we are going to have a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a year to come, a Deficit that is still more scandalous if it contrasts. We represent the GDP of the state as a whole. Catalonia represents around the dynou_per_cent of the GDP of the State, and this has been a fact that has remained constant for the last few years. Unfortunately, the investment deficit in our country has also remained constant. We represent the _percent of GDP, we have the new_percent of investments. If we contrast it with the Community of Madrid : 19,3_percent of GDP, therefore a very similar GDP as Catalonia represents, but in change, in the case of Madrid, 25,5_percent of the territorial investments of the general assumptions of the State. Twenty-five percent again. But, as I said, it is not just a matter of planning infrastructure, and therefore of how we accumulate these deficiencies, but of how they are carried out. Why isn't there enough, let's say, huh? , to put a specific game on the assumption and it's already; then it's done, and we see that it's not done, and it's not done systematically, any more than ever. But what's going on is we're coming from 2021 to remember. Unfortunately, we've already been used to it, but we've struck the memory of the whole history series. As you said with this figure – which, unfortunately, has already been very well known these last few days– we have reached 35.8_per_cent of presuppositional execution. 2,068_million were planned and 740 were executed; therefore, this 35,8_per_cent, almost thirty-sis_per_cent of execution. And that, clearly, as I said, is a xifra of memory, of memory denied, because we are the autonomous community, the territory of the State with a lower level of presuppositional execution. And, let's go back, if we contrast it with other territories, this is still more striking, because it contrasts this almost thirty-six per cent with the 184 per cent execution in the Madrid Community. And all this, with a minister from the PSC; all this, with the PSC having a key portfolio not only in the case of the Government of the Spanish State, but also in order to be able to take advantage of all the opportunities of socio-economic character that are present in our country, and that, having the ability to decide in Madrid, we are not only not taking advantage of them, but we are letting them go far. And tell the ministry that this is the result of the pandemic, as if the pandemic has only affected us. If it were the result of the pandemic, the data from 2021 would set up some side data and represent a tape in denial of a historical series that, for another band, would be positive. And it's not so, because, from the historical series, it goes so far that, in the middle, we carry a presuppositional execution of the sixty_per_cent. When we go back to looking at Madrid... – and it's not that you make a big deal out of it, look at Madrid, but it's that, in the end, I insist, with the contrast is when things are big – in Madrid, in the same period, a medium of 128_per_cent of presuppositional execution. Therefore, from 128 to 60 – more than double. He told us the ministry, therefore, that this was the fruit of the coven. If it was the fruit of the basket, it would only be this year, and no, it's all years. And, besides, if it were the fruit of the basket, it would only pass us to us, and it turns out that Castella - the Manxa also has a hundred_twenty_per_cent of presuppositional execution, or La Rioja, a hundred_dividuit_per_cent. That there was no covid, Castella - la Manxa or La Rioja? There was also a covid, there were also the same circumstances, and, in change, an increase of the investments very per envelope, doubling the figures of Catalonia. And this harms us, damages the competitiveness of our country's economy. You can look at it many ways, but it's evidence, that this is still possible in the Catalan fabric. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona places it in a 3,3_percent of GDP, eh? If these investments had been made, we could have grown at the level of GDP. And it's true that GDP is an indicator that we use less every time, because it determines wealth, but not how it spreads that wealth. And I take advantage of this reflection to enter the last element I wanted to say, that of social cohesion. Listen to me, it's not just this investment deficit... it's not just a matter that affects businesses, it affects the day-to-day workmen and workers in this country, it affects the rolling stock, it affects all those autonomies that raise the blind every day, it affects the conjunction of citizenship, it affects the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans, they vote who vote, they think what they think. Any citizen of this country has been systematically harmed by this leave on the part of the State, by this centralist, radial and "connononic" view, which unfortunately does not change governments who govern. Government governments of dreets or governments, like government now, the PSC, this, unfortunately, does not change. And this only means one thing: that the State has resigned from offering an ingressor project, a project of the future, a project of opportunity for Catalans and Catalans. Meanwhile, we will continue to work to effectively offer this future project to our fellow citizens. Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.220.0	Let's move on to the new item on the agenda, the Government's inquiry into emission reduction and environmental transition policies, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can. [[Inquiries to the Government on emission reduction and economic transition policies]] [[300-00182/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.221.0	Thank you very much, President. Good night, Counselor. A few years ago, the NGO Transport and Medi Ambient published a study in which it stated that Barcelona was the city of the world most punished for the contamination of creatures – the city of the world most punished for the contamination of creatures. The second city was Palma, and the third city of the nefast ranquing was Venice. Three Mediterranean cities threatened by the same problem: for the environmental impacts resulting from Creuer tourism and for tourism, for the tourist massifization of their cities. Venice already got an answer a year ago, partial but blunt: the government issued a ban on entry to the city, ras and short. And Palma, the second most affected city in the world, was no exception: the government of Illes has set a limit to the creuers, set a maximum of three creuers a day and a top of eight thousand creuers. Two governments that have assumed that the future of tourism and cities is going to act and not to let it, in a perspective of liberaticids that threatens the non-ecological viability, but also of our cities. And, therefore, the alternative to this dystopia is to act and put a stop to massification and guarantee a sustainable future for the tourism sector. And in these governments that have intervened, like that of the Islands or like the Italian Government, there is a lack of government: the Government of Catalonia, the Government on Barcelona is capital, that went out to inform as the most punished city of the world. We believe that here are missing three axes of response that we believe are necessary to build an alternative to this tourism model. The first, to act to impose limits on the great enterprises of creuers. This is not a purely Mediterranean claim: we saw it in the Caribbean, we saw it a little recently when they crossed the Arctic. Because we have a shared problem: the own World Tourism Organization recognizes that it is almost the norm of the global breeding offer that corresponds to three companies, a fully-fledged oligopolie. Three companies that in many cases house ships in tax havens and circulate them for our costs under flags of convenience in order not to tax in this country, to avoid taxes, to evade labor law and to avoid environmental inspections. And with a perspective on the market of creuers that is purely speculative and lofty. We've tripled the number of creuers in two years, and the forecasts are that they're still increasing: from 23_million creuers in 2015 to 33_million creuers in 2026. And, therefore, the first challenge for democratic administrations in the city and the Government of Catalonia is to set limits on the great enterprises of creuerists and to claim the right to cities and the right to the quality of the area of all citizens of this country. And, therefore, allow me to ask you three questions: what do you think of your advice on the Creasure Limitation Agreement approved by the Illes Government? Why is Catalonia, despite being the leader of the most punished cities in the world, the only one of the three that still has no public response to the rise? And the third, and obviously: will your government push the limit of beliefs demanded by the Mayor of Barcelona? We believe that, before we need to put up with creative businesses in our country, there is another challenge and another one that we need to address, which is what model of tourism we want for the present and for the future of our country. We are talking a lot about the fact that we want to build a better future – especially after the pandemic – than our country's punishment after a health crisis without precedent. And we always say that crises make us do better, and the truth is that it is not certain: crises do not change trends; crises accentuate them, accentuate inequalities, accentuate the negative externalities of economic activity, insecurity... who changes trends are governments, and who has to impose themselves before negative trends are governments, because after these speeches we see that basically what is being done is to reinforce purely negative trends. And the cruising tourism model is a fast food tourism model. You'll get half the creuerists who climb Barcelona there are less than four hours. Use our city 1_million people who collaps the center of the city day yes day too, who update their Instagram and leave the city. And they don't bring much more. It's a low-impact economic tourism, high-venom and high-impact environmental tourism. And, therefore, here we have to plant ourselves, too. And we have to plant ourselves in defense of a different tourist model: less digging and less flashing. We're not a country to use and lance. We are not a country of pace, and we do not want a tourism that uses cities as if they were cities of a used_sol. We want a tourism and a tourist model that strengthens the high states and that you put on for quality, and not for quantity. And the third is that for us, it's fundamental and that we think that thinking about it seriously is what tourism model we want and how we want the tourism sector to approach the challenge of climate change in our country. The country's conjunct – and the tourism sector is not on the sidelines – has a challenge that is fundamental: the challenge of building a future that is not a dystopia, and we believe that at these times it is an idea that can be claimed. Most political speeches today actually assume that the future will be worse than our present and our past, and I think we need to claim the ability to plan and build a better future despite all the challenges we are experiencing. And that requires public planning and bravery on the part of governments to face the situation. The tourist masseuse model has a clear impact on climate change and air quality. In carbon emissions, we all know that a creuer contaminates with thousands of cars; in emissions of suffering, nitrogen oxides and particles... I, therefore, need to build a sustainable alternative to emissions, pollution and tourism massification in our cities. But we also need another reflection, which is that the tourist sector in its conjunction also faces challenges of the future that are important to plan to survive. We're a Mediterranean country. The Mediterranean is the hot spot of the climate change in Europe. And what we have to ask ourselves today is what will happen to our tourist sector when summer temperatures are no longer attractive to most tourists because of the heat that it does, as it happens today in desert areas of our planet; what will happen to winter tourism in our country when there is no snow, which is a question that we are already doing full and full; what will also happen to enological tourism when our country's visitors are no longer productive; what will happen to plagiarism tourism when there are no plagiarisms or retrogrades of the plagiarism in this country. In short, what will happen to the tourism sector when you go and impact the climate change in our country. And, on this, we want to reflect: we need quality plans for the area – we have seen it in the debate on low-emission zones, we will talk about it today in the debate on climate change – but we also need adaptation and mitigation plans for the economic sectors and our cities in the climate change. And I wanted to give him one last thought, before the reply I will make: we need a government that I lead. We have said this many times: in this Parliament we are talking more about the transformations of the cities of change, those of Catalonia, the ones we have had to the rest of cities, than about the transformations that his Government is promoting. And the debate has to pass from a debate of its government's shortcomings to the debate on the agenda of transformation and economic transition in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.222.0	The words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.223.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, very good night. Congressman Ferro, I'd like to start with a reflection on the right to the clean air that I am absolutely convinced that you and I will share, and, come on, I want to think that with all the companies that we have in the hemicicle today. Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says that everyone has a right to an adequate standard of living that assures him and his family, of course, health and well-being. This basic right to salvation also means right to breathe a clean air, a right that finds judicial recovery, but that also every time takes the greatest importance, by luck, in the consciousness of the people. This government is fully convinced not only to transform, but also, because to transform I understand that we have to lead, eh? Then we transform and we also lead, but in any case... convinced that we have to go beyond the legal framework, huh? At the effects of contamination, we want – but we don't just want, but we also need – to go further and fix how the shields recommended by the World Health Organization were horrified. This is the government's will, but also the set of administrations and organizations that we gave support to the agreement for the quality of the area. That, if I may, I will try to get in there, because it seems extremely important to me, and then, obviously, we will get into the subject of the crackers. I assure you that it is a priority of this Councillor, of this Councillor, but also of this Government, to guarantee the right of citizens to enjoy, as it cannot otherwise be, a clean air. To make it possible, the first step, as always, is rigour and knowing what there is, say, what we need to solve, in any case, and knowing the quality of the air we breathe. At a very telegraphic level, the Air Contamination Monitoring and Forecasting System is a system for obtaining and treating the emission levels of contaminants. At present we have more than one hundred points of measure distributed to the territories that sub-minister more than 36 million annual measures, which are consulted online, eh? We invest 2 million euros a year. But it is not only so important to have this information – which is also – but also to have this information as a clear information, an understanding information, in fact, that we can explain it to everyone, that it is accessible to the population. And here we spend much more effort to make it much more understanding. For what it does to the assessment of air quality in our country, it usually means that we have a good air quality – in general, huh? – for all measured contaminants, except some. And here we come to the side, say, more difficult: except nitrogen oxides, particles of diameter lower than two microns and ozo, in this case, tropospheric. The highest levels of these contaminants are given– this is not escaped to anyone– basically to the Barcelona conurbation, situated more or less between some forty municipalities that are declared as the special protection zone, in this case, of the atmospheric environment. We could get into a deeper analysis, but I don't think it's the object today, either. However, in any case – you did not mention it – the sources of nitrogen oxide contamination find that approximately twenty per cent of the emissions are associated with port activity – a twenty, which is a high number –; in this case, about fifty on land transport – nor does it escape – and a twenty on industrial activity. In short, the department, but also the government, we are firmly, I return, committed to the better quality of the air. In fact, we continue to make previous commitments, but by closing them down and extending them to all sectors. And we extend them to the country, too, huh? We are introducing economic actors, social actors, and we are obviously extending it to the whole of the country. We are convinced that in many areas, but especially in this one, the involvement of everyone is absolutely essential, because, if not, we will not get out of it, and, moreover, that the words, therefore, obviously, must always be reinforced with actions. In this sense, as I said, the agreement for the quality of the area signed the month of March for us was a very important leap compared to the previous one. It was much more ambitious about commitments, but also in two factors that I think today is also important to reschedule them, huh? On the one hand, the extension of the accord to all major municipalities of twenty thousand inhabitants. This agreement goes beyond the metropolitan area, obviously. The assemblies understand that they are not the great allies, because it is in their territory where things happen, and, in fact, competitively, so it is also true that they correspond to them – they do not correspond to the Government of the Generality. But this is not a competition, but, if I may say so, I think I am not wrong if I say that this is a great alliance, an alliance that allows us to act, and, from this alliance, to build Catalonia, too, within the realm of air quality. Why does this problem affect the whole country, and so we have to apply them to the whole country, probably in different degrees, huh? But with this homogeneity of criteria to guarantee the same rights to all citizens. And, as I said before, so economic and social agents have also been invited to participate in this great agreement. Because I also want to remind you that a great responsible for the contamination of our country, as I said a moment ago, is mobility in private vehicles. And that's exactly where the major transformations are going to take place. And, therefore, in order to make it possible, we must count with all those agents who have an influence on labour mobility in our country. And the government's compromise also, in this case, is also given by two normative instruments that are also important and that then, if we have time, we will talk about it, because you also made me this: the quality plan of the area and the preliminary draft of the law of quality, in this case, atmospheric. Let's say that we also created the Catalonian Air Quality Table, which will facilitate the adoption and coordination of all these actions, which will obviously have to be applied progressively to improve the quality of the area. I think and I think I'm not wrong if I say this is an effective tool. We called it all just a week after – they must remember it perfectly – the summit to mark the common position between the joint administration, before the feeling that nullifies the areas of low emissions, in this case, of the Barcelona Assembly. One of the other important elements in this sense, which follows from this agreement on the quality of the area, is precisely this deployment of the low-emission zones to all the municipalities of twenty thousand inhabitants before the December 25th. And, as you know, precisely the law of the Spanish climate change establishes the obligation that the major municipalities, in this case, of fifty-thousand inhabitants and those majors of twenty-thousand with problems of contamination, therefore, have to implement the zones of low emissions before the year 2023. In Catalonia, and the result of this institutional consensus that gave it to the local world, we have managed that the total practice, sixty-six out of the sixty-eight municipalities – and that I like to put it in replete, because here later there is an implication of all the territories, of these municipalities, but also, obviously, of the general direction and of the department–..., sixty-six out of these sixty-six, majors of twenty-one thousand inhabitants, have committed themselves precisely to implementing these low-emission areas before the end of 2025. That is to say, we are, as it cannot otherwise be, at the expense of the local world, which, before the judgment of the TSJ, in this case, also re-emerges against the order of the assembly of the capital of the country that regulates the zones of low emissions..., the Government of the country, the Government of the Generality, has also filed a cassation appeal, in this case, against this judgment. And there are also if they are dictated, so, other feelings. The subject of digging, why, in fact, did you talk to me practically about digging, huh? On the second side I will also refer to it, but it seemed important to me also to display all the work we have done so far. As you know, the climate change law approved by August 17 for this Parliament provides for the creation of a follow-up of environmental taxes, so we have deployed at this time the CO2 tax, of mechanical traction vehicles, and there are two more, a reference to activities that generate winter-effect gases and the other on large vessels, which are the object of an intense definition work that we expect, as I said earlier, to ask the honourable Member Maragall this morning..., we will present in his parliamentary office. Commitments to make it possible for those who contaminate to pay, huh? On that premise, but in this imposition, concretely, and that I will detail a little more to my intervention, we want to go more there, eh? Beyond who contaminates the most – what was obvious –, what we want to do, so it's an imposition that goes with topalls, huh? It's to say, basically transform to get possibly to where I was asking, and it's that fewer ships arrive, or those that arrive, obviously, less contamination. That's the calling I'm going to get after, if it looks like it, I'm going to detail it a little bit more. At the end of the day, in terms of air quality, we'll all find ourselves, without any doubt. It is a challenge, as I said, that it is not just the government, but the joint administration, the joint citizenry, but the government will not doubt that it will lead all these policies for a better quality of the air. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.224.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.225.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I already know that negotiating with Mr. Damià Calvet doesn't have to be easy, but at the last part you did a very complex balancing game to not end up answering the question I asked you about the limitation of beliefs. We understand that public administrations today, in order to lead an effective response to climate change and to the need to adapt to climate change, need as little as two things: resources– and here we obviously share the complaint that we have already made against climate change and to deploy the green tax package envisaged in the climate change law– because we need resources to adapt and to fight against climate change, but we also need another thing, which is to be a legislative front in time to ensure that the economic sectors of our country acquire sustainability criteria, and that we transform the economy and transform the country's climate package to adapt, but also to complete the reduction commitments, and so much to stop it. And here's a game of balance we don't share. We agree with the green tax, but we know that the green tax will not limit the name of creuers in our country. And, therefore, what we want is that they are brave, that they are ahead, as they have done in Venice and as the Government of the Islands has done with Palma, and set up a topall under the name of creuers that can be established in the port of Barcelona. And, therefore, that the Government of the Generality leads, with the harbour authorities and with the Assembly of Barcelona, an agreement like that which the Government of the Balearic Islands has led. And that's what we're asking, because we just don't stop the crevice sector with taxes, and it's obvious and we all know it. And, in fact, one of the things we give about tourist taxes every time they tell us the tourist tax or it will boost tourism in our country is that tourist taxes have practically no impact on the arrival of tourists in our country. They have an impact on something else: on the ability to generate resources to reduce negative environmental, venous externalities, which generates tourism in our home. And in this, in the need to be ahead of legislation, I think we're late, because what we're asking for from your advice is, first, to lead the response to the climate change. We know that there has been a lot of work in the cove; we know that the law of residues..., we already have the preliminary draft; we know that the deployment of renewables in the territory has not been easy and has required a new energy decree, but we know that there are still many things missing in this country. And without one that for us is fundamental: that it should not only be the department of Climate Action, which leads the response to climate change. It's that you have to focus on the legislation of the rest of the departments, and on this the government also sweeps the front door. For example, in its own law on waste, which already envisages requiring tourism to include elements of circular economy, energy saving, water saving, limitation of places for tourists and of housing to nine places, of food mismanagement, of consumption of zero-kilometer food... That is to say, to include in this sector which are the criteria of sustainable development that it needs to ensure the future. But so do the rest of the departments. We need you to hit the infrastructure department. Where are the dissuasive parking lots in the metropolitan area and at the entrance of the great cities of our country? Where is the so demanded – and that would help us a lot, too, in the quality of the port area – electrification of the port of Barcelona? Obviously, we share and appreciate your support and your appeal before the judgment against the low-emissions zone, but we understand that you have a dual function in this Government: first, to be a legislative front for the climate action of the Government of the Generality, and then to require it to focus on the rest of the departments because it has resources and because sustainability in this country is addressed across all departments. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.226.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the word Counselor Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.227.0	All right. Thank you, President. Very quick, Mr. Iron. Well, first of all, I don't have to appreciate any appeals, because... I'd just miss it. We'll do it again 50 times, and I hope we don't have to do any more, but we'll probably have to do some more. Second thing, I'm not around – I don't know if I'd like it or not, huh? , I don't think so, but... – design the tourist model of the city of Barcelona. In the vicinity. I'm telling you why you're moving forward, huh? I'll be right back. I explained it this morning, and it doesn't change that I'm going to try to answer it all in four minutes and a half. One of the problems the city of Barcelona has – because it has more than one, I understand – is precisely the environmental quality of the city. And that's a concern – the quality of the area – that it occupies and concerns not only this government, but also the citizens of Barcelona, who repeatedly, so..., you know and that's how it's explained, huh? Moreover, it means – and we also said this morning – that when we talk about the quality of the air we do not talk about it in abstract. We are obviously talking about the better quality of life for the citizens of this country, and about making our barrels, our cities and our towns, so, obviously, places much more habitable and much more pleasant, and about a theme, obviously, of salvation, huh? And there is another derivative that is very important, which is precisely the massiveity of the Creuers at the port of Barcelona. And I agree with you: in this sense, we have to act now, huh? But I'm also asking the Barcelona Assembly, if I may. I don't know how hard it is, huh? Why, do you know what's going on, Mr. Iron? We agree on a lot of things, I believe, you and I, and, besides, it's one of the deputies that I really like to talk to and discuss, because in this sense it goes to the idea, right? But, Mr. Ferro, what I don't like, if I may say so, is that here we are setting up a debate as if it were the Barcelona Assembly that respects what I don't know or don't know who. I'm feeling this way. And, of course, I don't have much left to say to myself: 'Ecculti'm, it's that in the end perhaps the one who has to complete the agreements, and above all the approved agreements, is the Barcelona Assembly, and lead the Barcelona Assembly when, between its political group and, in this case, the PSC, they don't have or don't have to agree. I mean, don't come here demanding, though they can demand what you need, because we like to lead... And, besides, I assure you that I am not shaking my hand, even though there are things that do not come close to this advice, despite the fact that it is extremely cross-sectional. And why am I telling you that? Because they are pending the study of the tourist charge, they are pending the proposal to limit the name of diggers, because there is no agreement between the PSC and you. So I didn't come here to ask for this, because we're moving on. What do we do? So precisely this late we've started working on a tax, on a very concrete tax, which – I've already said, huh? – rules the creuer emissions at all the ports of the country, also that of Barcelona, based on the law that teaches us all and that we all agree, that is the law of the climate change. I think we have the tools, and here we have to add more actors and more administrations. Because, in the end, all this will happen to create a joint table and ask for co-responsibility, from everyone. I mean, if we think about improving the quality of the air and somehow trying to mitigate all the effects of the climate change, we won't get away with it. And I already know that sometimes we all have to do what I can to convince, but in this case, it seems very absurd to me. Because the problem we've detected. We know what the emissions represent and what the holes represent when they dock at the port of Barcelona – they dock, they come out, they leave..., in other words, they do what they do. But we have the port authority; we have Ports of the Generality; we have the Barcelona City Council, which has a lot to say; we also have the metropolitan area Councils, which have a lot to say, because here there are no kings' borders and we don't play different games, we play the same; and we have the Government of the Generality, with courage and willingness to lead. We are the first to make a table available to discuss, to talk and to move forward. I said: we, with Economy and the department, are designing this tax of belief, a tax that we want to apply progressively, according to the levels of contamination. And we want to do it from the year 2023, which, say, is like tomorrow, huh? We don't want the typical tax on who pollutes the most, do we? What we want is to transform this model of activity of great ships. We want to set up some shields and tops to regulate this activity. That's what we want to do, but on the way in... and, besides, we can do it with all the world's co-responsibility. We're giving it to each other, aren't we? I mean, yeah, let's talk about it, but come to terms with it. It's not a waste, Mr. Ferro, that I come to ask you to lead when I think I'm already doing it, bravely, and, more importantly, with compromise and collusion with your parliamentary group, which is very important, and we have it in many ways and I appreciate it a lot, because we share it and when they have to tax it, they tax it, but, man, I'm not asking you to lead something when, in this case, it's you who should agree to lead it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3201.228.0	All right. So thank you very much. We suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
