ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.1.0	It's too late. [[The president laughs.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.2.0	Our parliamentary group has not received the voting delegations for this House. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.3.0	I'm proving the voting delegations. [[Pause.]] I have the voting delegations of the VOX Parliamentary Group, indeed. Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.4.0	We did not get the voting delegations from all the parliamentary groups, which normally send it before the plenary, an hour or two before the beginning of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.5.0	So with the ceremony with which the Ple has been summoned, there's no time to send him the voting delegations, and I'm available because all the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.6.0	We wanted to know whether former MP Pau Juvillà has delegated the vote or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.7.0	Pau Juvillà's voting delegation does not appear in the voting delegations that we have accepted for this plenary. If you want to know the reasons for which this delegation has not been accepted, it is by virtue of Article 16.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. It is essential that the clearness and clarity of the vote of the only item on the agenda in order to preserve the rights of the Member on whom we are voting today on this item on the agenda is not contaminated by a conflict of interest. As has been granted to the Board of Spokesmen, this plenary session has a single point of the order of the day... Yes, Mr Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.8.0	President, for a call to observe the Rules. According to Article 72.1, I believe that the conjunction of the chamber has right to know which assembly forms part. This House is the supreme organ of the Parliament of Catalonia, and I would like to know whether you have already given order because the TSJC has been pleased to hear about Mr Juvillà and the Central Electoral Board. I'm telling you why we'd get rid of the theater if we all know the entrance if Mr. Juvilà is considered to be a member of this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.9.0	Mr Martín Blanco, I would ask you not to make use of the word ‘theatre' – which is a word that I like very much, of a world that I respect very much – to link it to what we do in the Parliament of Catalonia as Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.10.0	The one at the theater respects him, the one at the parliament, not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.11.0	Please, I listened to her while she was talking, now I'm talking and I'm using the word. We are here to vote on an order of the day which has a single point, which is to vote on the opinion on the Commission of the Status of Deputies which, as you know perfectly well because it participated, dictates what it dictates. And, therefore, I have expressed who is the quorum of this chamber. If any Member wants to know who the voting delegations have accepted, I am willing to read all the names of the Members who have obtained the voting delegation. Mr Garriga asked me about a specific Member and I gave the reasons for which this order of the day and this vote will take a long time without any contamination of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.12.0	I think it is important for the assembly of the chamber and for the clarity of the public debate, precisely, and for the legal certainty of the assembly of the citizen to know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.13.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I thank you very much for your concern for the legal security of this chamber. This room has submitted some attachments... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr Martín Blanco, this chamber has presented some allegations, which were voted in this House, which preserve the legal security of this chamber. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, we have a point on the order of the day, which we will now vote on, when we can start the session without further interruptions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.14.0	It's not that hard to know if Mr. Juvilà is or is not a member of this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.15.0	Mr Martín Blanco, I urge you, we are about to vote on an opinion. The Committee on the Statute of the European Parliament has granted what we will vote on in this opinion. To preserve, precisely, the rights of all Members and, in concrete terms, of Mr Pau Juvillà, it is relevant that we carry out this vote without their participation in the voting delegation. [[Compatibility or incompatibility situation and on the condition of Member of Parliament Pau Juvillà and Ballester]] [[234-00130/13]] We shall therefore proceed, if it seems to them, as we have given to the Board of Spokesmen, to the debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies on the compatibility or incompatibility situation of the member of Parliament Mr Pau Juvillà and Mr Ballester. In the first place, since the chairman of the committee has asked for the word in order to be able to make the presentation of the opinion, I give the word to Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.16.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members, as a matter of fact, we are here today to support this House's adoption of the opinion adopted yesterday by the Committee on the Status of Deputies; it is an opinion which you all know and which, in short, has three points. The first point is that I understand, the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies – and so I submit it to the plenary – that the resolution issued by the Central Electoral Board is contrary to the law. We understand that for many arguments, there is no assumption of a regulatory hierarchy, as it has been said on these days incorrectly between the general electoral law and the Catalan Parliament, they are all two laws and they are different areas of competition. We understand, therefore, that the interpretation that the JEC has had to finish – with some other precedent, however, object to revision by the Constitutional Court – to consider that Article 6.2 implies an ineligibility which, therefore, is a deprivation of the condition of election, we believe that it is contrary to the presumption of innocence laid down in Article 24 of the Spanish Constitution and many international treaties and, in particular, Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. These are the reasons why, for a very large majority, this chamber, with a vote due to the end of the 17th of September of last year, granted the interposition of a proceeding administered before the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court to challenge this administrative resolution of the Central Electoral Board. The Chamber's judicial services, having regard to what the Court had granted, brought such proceedings before the Court of First Instance with a request for interim measures, suspending the effectiveness of the contested resolution. And it is consolidated jurisprudence, both of the Supreme Court and of the Constitutional Court that, when there is an administrative resolution that, despite being firm, has been subject to appeals before a court and the suspension has been requested, it cannot be enforced until the court resolves whether or not it grants the suspension. I would not have felt, it would be contrary to the effectiveness of judicial guardianship that, when the court could possibly give a suspension, the resolution had already been enforced. It was a case in point, which is the most common in the administrative area, in the urban area when the demolition of a construction is agreed and the suspension is called for, if the day the prison guards of the court that has already demolished the construction, it would not have been felt, the judicial guardianship or the effectiveness of the judicial guardianship would have been violated. For these reasons, the operative part of the opinion states that, not competing with the cases of Article 24 or 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, for a band, and then, in the light of this consolidated case law which says that a resolution cannot be enforced while it is pending that on the part of the courts it is adopted or is no longer possible to adopt a precautionary measure, in this respect, the resolution cannot be enforced. And, therefore, Mr. Pau Juvillà, today, is present, understands the Committee of the State of the Deputies and thus submits to the plenary, the condition of the Member on these dates. The opinion, as you also know, is on the part of the explanatory rather than the operative part, which has been until today an agreement of all the political forces supporting the anti-repressive struggle to consider that, in any case, this poses a question, puts it in danger, of running into criminal law the public workers. And, therefore, the opinion makes this warning simply to these effects, because all that Congressman Pau Juvillà enjoys of the full condition of deputy, for some of the inherent functions it is possible that there will be practical difficulties of application when their practical execution depends on the performance of a public server, which could incur disobedience. And for all these reasons, on behalf of the committee, I ask the plenary to approve the opinion in the terms that were approved yesterday for the vast majority of the committee, and that you already know. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.18.0	President, Vice President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members, first place, and on behalf of my group, allow me to send all the strength and souls to the Pau before this malaise that struck him. Let's hope he has a prompt recovery and we can find him soon. As he said yesterday on his Twitter feed, "life sucks. We don't forget that it's the best price we have. Mirin, on April 10, 1980, after the first autonomous elections of democracy, which was celebrated that March, was the Parliament of Catalonia. There have been a lot of different times in these rooms, all kinds of times, haven't they? : complex, difficult, cheerful, positive, productive, substantive debates, very uplifting approvals of laws, dialog between differences, agreements... So, for this reason, in the last few years, and sadly, we have not had such fortunate moments in this short history. And these last few days we have to say that we are living, or painted again, moments that we should all think about. There are many reasons, which I will not enter, because I believe that what is at stake is to look forward, but that they refer to the conviction that this Parliament has not developed its functions in its full size that was close to it in the last decade, marked by governments and major independents. But as today, as these days, President Borràs, the Parliament of Catalonia had never shamed us so much. These days we've seen the stupefactions, the truth, of a political sprawl unworthy of a city that I don't deserve, a city that surely doesn't have to understand anything, and that is unfortunately patenting the pandemic that has already taken place very long and lasting two years. And do you know why I'm so strong? And I say that with the utmost respect to you, you know that. I'm saying that because I don't think you're being honest. Look, they're not honest, first, with yourselves, and then with the citizenry that you obviously represent, and who I think you've fooled a lot of times. Look, you're absolutely at the head of appearances, aren't you? Not to show what they really are and think, and that's very bad for politics, which is a noble activity. And what does it mean to appear, what is its meaning? I looked for it in the Catalan Encyclopedia, and said: "That which is not only apparent, it seems and it is not; « aspect which presents one thing, unlike its true being; « conceal a reality which does not interest to manifest. And you are here, in appearance, giving as a result a spectacle, of truth, of low quality, that is unbelievable, that no one is believed. He misguided, pitjors actors, pessim scenari. The public, frankly, no longer exists, and I believe, among all, that we are a little full of falsehood, simply, because you do not have the courage to tell the truth. And I don't honestly think it costs that much. You could tell me, and you can say, that it seems unfair to LOREG. Obviously, they have all the legitimacy to think about it, I'd just miss it. And what I'm saying is, they can change it. They have the legal instruments to change it. They have your representatives, the independence parties, in other chambers we could modify this law. They could do it. But the laws, while they are in force, must be completed. Laws are guarantees of democracy; there is no democracy without laws. We have set these standards so that we can live in coexistence and democracy. And today the rule is clear, the agreement of the JEC is clear, and its antecedents, existing, tell us everything, direct us because we can apply this agreement. Actually, that's what he did a year ago. What's changed in these months? Appearance? The discrepancy between different governance partners? We would also like you to explain to us, as they have paralyzed the activity of the chamber, they have maintained the rights of the deputies and the deputies, who also represent the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, we would be pleased if you could explain to us whether this is also your way of hearing democracy. We have not been able to approve the opinion of the law of housing emergency or the work plan of the inclusive school, as it publishes La Vanguardia that we have the twenty-i-new_per_cent of the population in social exclusion. Perhaps we should devote ourselves to these issues, frankly, important. Look, we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that you arrive at this point and make a deep reflection, calm, folded, change the course and prevent the Parliament of Catalonia from continuing to drift because of who at these times carry the helm of the ship. These days, you have secreted the popular sobriety that many times you speak of, and it makes all the impression that you are doing it out of interest, and I would say, out of personal interest, and that we cannot tolerate. My group has already said that it would oppose closing the activity and will also work to restore it and, above all, to restore dignity. They ask us to look forward and to once more conjure ourselves to return dignity to an institution that is already very touched. In the name of the first group of the chamber, they only ask, to end, to reflect, to reflect and to react. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.19.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Mr Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Members, this plenary should never have taken place. The profound anti-democratic character of the Government of the Generalitat and the separatist parties is what makes us all have to be here today debating a matter that has no reason to be. Pau Juvillà i Ballester is a convicted and disqualified offender who has no place in this room. It is paradoxical that you all bring us to debate for the protection of a public representative who jumped the law instead of the problems that really occupy and worry, the real problems of Catalans. This same week we have known how social exclusion already reaches twenty-nine_per_cent of the population of Catalonia, six points more than the average of the whole nation. The number of households in which all their members are unemployed has risen to 248,000 people, twelve points more than in 2018 on the same report. If we talk about neighborhoods, criminals have taken the streets and insecurity has taken over the main towns and cities of our region. The Islamization of Catalonia grows at an unstoppable pace and the persecution of those who oppose the same process is now irreversible. A real emergency that seems to worry none of the parties, neither separatists nor their accomplices on the left, and before which you all keep a silent atronator. Because guaranteeing the well-being and prosperity of Catalans is not on their agenda, it has never been. An agenda, yours, that of privileged people who only pretend to shield their own privileges, because their only objective is to protect that separatist elite who lives at the expense of ordinary citizens, who enjoy millions of lives and who pretend to be absolutely immune to the judiciary, while the middle and working classes suffer. The Catalans, abandoned, and you, perfectly protected. That is the only truth of the evil so-called process. On 27 January Mrs Borràs was asked by the Central Electoral Board to comply with Mr Juvillà's disqualification. Its solution has been to paralyse parliamentary activity for no reason, to call for the convening of the Committee of Deputies, which has no powers whatsoever to reinterpret the provisions of a judgment, and is still on its way and appears to be on the verge of committing a crime of disobedience. Well, let him know that, if he does not comply, he will receive a complaint from our parliamentary group in the next few days. Therefore, I want to place it and I want to remind you that you are in time to avoid it. We are faced with an absolutely arbitrary resolution, which is nothing more than the finding of the perpetual rebellion of the Bureau of Parliament and of this chamber, kidnapped by separatism, towards each and every one of the constitutional bodies; a resolution that violates the rights of all, and especially the rights of Members. It is well known that the Government, the separatist parties and the PSC have long chosen a course, which is that of rupture, division and disobedience. For all of you, between the desperate stand for the end of the month and the offender..., separatism and the left always choose the offender; for all of you, between the family in fear of your son returning home at night and the offender, all of you stand on the side of the offender; for all of you, between the young man who has been robbed of his future and the offender, all of you choose and prefer to be on the side of the offender; for, between the grandfather alone and the offender, you prefer to be on the side of the offender. [[Widow's remorse.]] Always on the side of the offender and never – no matter what, let's talk about economy, health, social services – on the side of families or workers. To all of you – and you have proved it – Catalans care very little, and every day, in every plenary session, they demonstrate it more and more. You know that VOX is not going to allow the law to be violated in this chamber. I have said this: we will bring to justice those responsible for this tremendous outrage. We are faced with a government in absolute rebellion, we know it; week after week it questions each and every one of the pillars that underpin our society and our legal and coexistence system: today, yesterday, trying to suspend the activity of the Parliament of Catalonia; yesterday, harassing a five-year-old for wanting to speak in Spanish, and tomorrow it will surely be another scandal, another certainly bigger horn. But I am faced with the obligation and responsibility to assume the leadership of the opposition, which some have renounced to accept, and to repeat the obvious, that today it is more necessary than ever to suspend Catalonia's autonomy by the legal channels provided for to end once and for all with all its defiances and to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.21.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.22.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today is not a normal day, because the first thing to put on the table is that we cannot normalize the nature of the State, the repression of the State, this situation of systemic repression and persisting to which the Spanish State has avowed. This Parliament is again witnessing the only response that the State has reserved for our collective aspirations: repression. And we can never forget that this is happening in a much broader framework of repression, more than three thousand people who have somehow been retaliated for the State from the U of October and from so many other social struggles and advocacy rights. For another band, it would be that Pau Juvillà's case also serves to demonstrate before the international community what is the state's dialect for this conflict: repression. And, as we said earlier in the Committee on the Status of Deputies, we see a little more time than the current legal and political framework seeks to impose limits on the defence of fundamental rights and collective rights, and so we also discuss the political decisions that are taken in this Parliament. The Electoral Board, a purely administered institution, has passed before the sovereignty of the Parliament; the JEC and its branches to the Parliament of Catalonia – because, yes, Ciutadans, the People's Party and the extreme right are the branches of the Central Electoral Board – make a new coup d'état, a new coup to democracy, altering then that the citizens of Catalonia decided in the elections; a new offensive to pursue those who defend phonenal rights and collectius rights. In this House, we now have to vote on an opinion which says that the opinion of 17 September, in which one hundred and thirty Members of this House, the Socialist Party, say that the Electoral Board was not a competent body to disqualify a Member and that the Parliament, before the resolutions of this administered body, had to guarantee the rights and condition of Pau Juvillà's Member. The truth, however, is that these rights and the condition of Pau Juvillà's deputy, right to vote in plenary or to delegate their vote, are already on hold. Today in Pau Juvillà he has not been summoned to this House, he has not been summoned in spite of yesterday..., and today we carry the opinion that we approved yesterday that says: "He does not compete on the deputy Pau Juvillà and Ballester no of the causes of loss of the condition of the deputy. That is why, today, our parliamentary group, because our partner Pau Juvillà, who is a member of this House, has not been convened, we have decided that we will not vote on this opinion, which in fact we will not vote on this vote today. Finally, we want to address the parties of the Spanish right and ultra-right, the judiciary, the State and the institutions that perpetuate the monarchy and oligarchies: neither repression, nor threats, nor media campaigns will divert us from our political objectives, the independence of the Catalan countries. And finally, we call on independence to turn repression into a lever for political advancements. The Pau always says, that we should collectively advance and give an answer to repression, but above all that we should fix horizons and build paths to achieve our political objectives that allow us to self-determine, advance towards independence and build a new political framework in favor of the working people. And finally, Pau, because, as I said next, we will triumph and arrive at the end with a smile to the clave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.23.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.24.0	Thank you, President. Since our parliamentary group, we would like to begin by moving a strong hug to Pau in the fight against cancer, and we are sure that we will find ourselves, either in Parliament or in the streets. And we also want to send our political support before a situation that we believe is unfair, and especially against a decision that we believe is arbitrary that is the decision of the Central Electoral Board. A political support that we are voting in favour of this opinion. And we're ahead of a hard fact and I want to put up with it: a member of the Catalan Parliament can lose his bait for a supposed disobedience to pin a hole in his office in a few elections where his party is not even present. I think we can all agree that it's hard and it's very hard. And, besides, without a firm feeling, because we are waiting for what the Supreme Court can decide. And, besides, we do or do, in this case, with a decision of an organ that has administrative nature and in no judicial case and that contradicts of all the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, and that, therefore, we are in a clear contradiction. And it is for this reason that we, in line with what we did to the previous plenary and also to the Committee on the Status of Deputies, will vote on this opinion in which we say that without a firm feeling the Pau Juvillà should not lose his bait. But we also want to reflect on what happened this week or what happened these weeks and, concretely, the last forty-four hours. It is a barbarity to propose to close the Parliament of Catalonia, whether indefinitely or fifteen days. It's an authentic barbarity! And more so, when it affects the lives of thousands of people. And I'll give you a very concrete example: this week the law was to be filled against the charges and it was to be approved for the week you see. That's not gonna happen. So... that's to say, we are, with the decision taken by a certain majority, affecting the rights of thousands of people who are more difficult to access a ‘living', to access a ‘living' worthy when they are denuded. And that's a reality we can't forget either. And I don't think we're helping to dignify politics, to explain what's going on, because now, to us, most people don't ask what's going on with Pau Juvillà's escho; they ask us if we're still charging when we're not going to work. They're asking us things about this guy. And here we are in the Parliament of Catalonia with games of hands, master games, disobedience-fiction or, as some journalists have said, with operations of "magic Borrás or making theater, which is the feeling that I think a lot of people can have, seeing what is happening in this Ple: making see that it's done one thing, but it's not done. And it's happened to us some other time, it's happened to us with the lawsuits of age. "The claims of age..., is resolved, when it was not resolved. He passed us today with the delegation of the vote. We all know exactly what's going on. We can see no, but we all know what's going on. And, therefore, at these times most people do not know – Members and Members – whether Pau Juvillà will continue to be a Member or not to be a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia, because it is not clear. And, in the background, what we are in a new battle between the independent parties, another chicken game, is to say, to see who remains in evidence in the last second to abide by a decision that obviously we believe is unfair. We think you're absolutely unfair. But we thought that this was from the Escó del Pau Juvillà and, in the end, this was no longer from the Escó del Pau Juvillà; in the end it was because President Borràs..., or to try to make it obvious – I would say rather than do a magic thing – that President Borràs is going to do what President Torrent did not dare to do. That's what it's about. When, in the end, what remains clear is that Torrent's way has been imposed and, if I may, there has been a torrent of reality that has seen them over and that, obviously, has ended up passing, so, what we knew would happen. [[Widow's remorse.]] With two very clear consequences: the first is that today we are no longer talking about the Escó de Pau Juvillà and the unjust decision of the JEC, and that, moreover, among all and all, some with greater responsibility, have contributed to the discredit of the Catalan Parliament and of Catalan politics, and that is what has happened. And I also believe that – I am very sorry – this happened because the President of Parliament missed the management of the chamber of hands, and that is exactly what happened. Look, I'm making you two proposals: the first, we need a Speaker of Parliament who acts as the Speaker of Parliament and not as a permanent candidate and in the campaign of Junts for Catalonia, a President of all, and, second, we need to talk and see how we actually face these decisions and these situations not looking guilty or trying to make us see what we do when we don't do. Honestly, we don't have the solution, but I assure you that what's been going on this week is nothing but a solution, but – I'm sorry – I think we've come back, or have come back, to make the ridiculous. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.25.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr. Carlos Carrizosa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, wish Pau Juvillà a speedy recovery from his illness. And the second thing is to start talking about this supposed opinion, which is a text that has been taken slightly more or less than from the sleeve and which, moreover, is neither the place nor the time, because the opinions are therefore presented during the judicial proceedings in order to try to enlighten the judge in his position and to claim..., all the things that you have said here have already been argued before the courts, and the courts have rejected it. And what you're pretending is that you're making a ruling after there's a ruling and with that ruling, 'wow, how wrong the judge is, who, how wrong the judge is. Mr Cuevillas knows perfectly well that when a judge has already handed down judgment and there is already case law, because there is that of the Supreme Court regarding the powers of the Central Electoral Board in the Quim Torra case, they are already validated, that has already been decided judicially..., because you bring something here, therefore, which seeks to challenge what the courts have already decided and which we already know is what it is. We are not judges; we, by voting, cannot challenge judicial decisions for as long as you do not like them. You..., with that document that you haven't even been able to write the camera lawyers because it's absolutely out of the legal standard, it's just some kind of political coverage for you, and that's it. It was mentioned before that let us not say that this is a theatre; Mr Cid himself said that this is a theatre, of which he participates enthusiastically, because he criticizes a lot but then he will really vote in the same sense as the separatists, as always, to validate the theatre, Mr Cid, to validate the theatre. The other day we were voting on the witches and today we are voting on magic formulas that you think will give back the seat to Mr Juvillà. It's like writing our father backwards and trying to vote for it and thinking that Satan's gonna show up here. Well, no, Satan's not gonna show up. This is useless, and Mr Juvillà is no longer a Member, no longer a Member. And the Madam President is not saying it: neither is it, nor is it not, nor is it the other way around. And the subterfuge that's article 16 that you don't vote for, listen, to see who believes it here. And this, gentlemen, is a misconception and a waste of time similar to that we had just recently voted for the witches. You, like everyone else, have the right to think what you want, to hang on your balcony whatever you want, to do with your political party and the money of your political party what you want, and with the money, of course, you can do all that. But, if you want to throw yourself like lambs all by the cliff of sin, you can too, but don't drag the Catalans and this institution with you, that's what I think you have to say very clearly. You don't have the right to spend everyone's public money to hire your friends, to skip rules, to use everyone's buildings to hang political propaganda at election time, you don't have the right to stop Parliament, you don't have the right to endanger Parliament or Education officials, you don't have the right to prevent other parties that think differently from you from putting tents in the peoples you govern, you don't have the right to undermine institutions like this one in the Catalan Parliament. Because what the president is doing is something trumpist, which is to undermine the institutions from the institutions themselves, exactly as Donald Trump did. They're gonna find us in front of them. And finally, the paper of the Socialists. Look, it's just that the lady at the CUP herself had to come here to reproach you for your incoherence. If you started by voting with separatism for keeping Mr Juvillà's seat and saying that what the Electoral Board says doesn't matter, and now it turns out you're absolutely changing your position. Well, look, what we would need in Catalonia is a party that, if it is said of opposition, truly defends the values of democracy in the face of a radical separatism that bets on permanent conflict, that bets on victimization and martyrdom, for continuing to feed this process that divides and ruins us. And, to conclude, either the Democrats clearly oppose the poisonous accounts, the theatres, the broken goods of separatist populism or, socialist gentlemen, the decadence of Catalonia is not going to be stopped. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.27.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.28.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to reiterate our most sincere wishes for a speedy recovery for Pau Juvillà. Also express everyone's appreciation for their courage in coping with cancer. So a lot of cheer and a lot of strength in that battle. The President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Laura Borràs, has again demonstrated in recent days a curious combination of arrogance and infantilism; the arrogance of those who believe that it is above good and evil, that it is finer than anyone else and that it can do whatever it takes because ‘I am worth it. And then comes childishness, the rabies of the little boy who refuses to go to school or who does not want to take on the consequences of his mischief. But in case all this is not enough, and since we are talking about school peripecies, Mrs Borràs has intended to organise her particular parliamentary white week. That's right, corrected and augmented. Nothing more and nothing less than fifteen days of vacation intended to cascade his majesty Borràs by closing the Parliament. That's right, charging; that's never missing. That's a nice jet, Mrs. Borràs. That's a nice jet. Evidently, after the initial arrogance, the return to reality comes. And now we're in the middle of childish rage. Today's plenary is about childish rabies, in fact. Closing a parliament is illegal, undemocratic and deeply immoral. Illegal, because even in time of pandemic a parliament can not be closed, has been determined by the Constitutional Court on the first wave of the pandemic in Spain and the British justice on the same attempt made by Boris Johnson. It's deeply undemocratic. Parliament is the space for debate of the one hundred, not of the fifty, not of the sixty, not even of the ninety. The fifty-two or ninety-two may adopt resolutions, but none that impedes the exercise of the political rights of those who do not vote on such resolutions. You return these days to the law of transition, of 6 and 7 September, to temporarily suspend democracy and parliamentary control in the service of a single political project. It is also immoral. It is a disgrace to the brutal Catalan institutions, a bad image of the political class in general, and a terrible message that we send to Catalan society, which needs all its politicians, government and opposition, fighting the pandemic and in favour of economic recovery and not making traps to skip the action of justice. Today's Opinion? There is little to comment on. It's the same legally infected artifact that ended up with Quim Torra in his house, the same one, and so will end this story, exactly the same. A Quim Torra to whom, by the way, no one claims, no one remembers from him, not even you. And it's just that, to top it off, you guys leave your throws after you've used them. Small process, small brewery, small shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.29.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. In any case, for allusions and for the sake of clarity, and I have already spoken to the Vice-Presidents, as it was earlier in Mr Cid's case and as it has now been another occasion, in the case of the Bureau of Parliament of the other day it was agreed neither a suspension of Parliament nor fifteen days... – and the word ‘forty days never appeared' – but, pursuant to Rule 37.3.b, we agreed to a modification of the parliamentary work to convene the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy, to draw up an opinion and to substantiate the plenary. And that's what they're doing. We did it on Tuesday and today we're saying, and that's what we're doing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Then, and on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Lord Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.30.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, look, we would lie if we said that we are only talking about an opinion, because for Junts for Catalonia, specifically for Junts for Catalonia and for a good part of independence, the end dates of generation and principles of fever are very hard, humanly very hard, politically very hard. We remember President Puigdemont, we remember President Torra, but above all we have a history of Members and Members who know perfectly well what it is to have all the right to occupy a bait and not be able to occupy it. He passed it to President Puigdemont; he passed it to Councillor Clara Ponsatí; he passed it to Councillor Lluís Puig, across Democratic Europe and Democratic Spain; he passed it to Councillor Turull; he passed it to Councillor Rull, and, as we say, to President Torra. And not all of these causes were just because of the state's equipment. But because of the anti-repressive logic and the logic of the independence unit, and because we are the civic, peaceful and democratic revolution for independence, we do not proclaim it but practice it, we are here and we are still here. The opinion that we are talking about today and what we will approve says an obvious; it says that in Pau Juvillà does not compete with the causes of our Rules that involve a loss of status as a Member. And it is so clear and so broad that yesterday a very large majority of this Parliament, represented by the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, approved it. There were the common ones, there was the CUP, there was Left and there was Together for Catalonia. Certainly, what a shame, gentlemen of the PSC. Returns the 155th minority [[remorse of the voice]] From the hand of VOX, from the hand of Ciutadans, from the hand of the PP, and you, who have not yet asked for forgiveness to apply the 155, are talking about segregate this chamber? Continue in the same mark: try to win, to justice, to the administered organ, which do not give them the ballot boxes. "There is no crueler tyranny than that which is perpetrated by engaging in law and justice. I wrote Montesquieu, but I could talk about Spain in relation to Catalonia this 21st century. And, despite the very obviations of a state of law or democracy that explains this opinion, we have learned that the Central Electoral Board is setting up the Supreme Court's robe; it does not only not comply with the Rules of this chamber, it does not only wait for the resolution of the provisos, but it uses the predecessor of President Torra and issues the minutes of the next member of the People's Union Candidature. This is the political and legal perversion we find ourselves in. And there are not enough doors to explain it; there is not enough indignation. And the 155 accuse President Borràs when he stops parliamentary work and asks the democratic majority, which is not just the independence majority, but the democratic majority of this Parliament, to know where we are. And what have we done? So, in the first place, we have a compromise president to hard this compromise until the end. And it is clear that their commitment will be a sterilized sacrifice if they only respond to an individual position. And we wanted to act collectively. And what have we done? So from the very moment we knew the sentence, we convened the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy, as a matter of urgency, we made the opinion that we voted in the plenary – all the opinions were not to be voted in the plenary; we wanted it to be voted in the plenary – when there was the resolution of the JEC that had granted the withdrawal of the deputy's record we reconvened an extraordinary table, we brought to the plenary the submission of an appeal and a precautionary statement, we approved it in full. And, in parallel, a work of internationalization. Yesterday, the Flanders Parliament unanimously defended the rights of all Members of this House. And above all we worked together, all independence, speaking to us with sincerity and frankness. Because from the first second we have raised the need to establish strategies that do not speak only of a deputy, because they will come to it much more, because the Regunant MP will come, and the Young MP will come, and the Saved MP will come... And, therefore, our compromise must be with fifty-two percent of the Catalan society that told us that they wanted independence, but above all they wanted more democracy. Neither this Parliament nor the parliament of the world... neither issues nor withdraws acts; what it does is to preserve the rights of its deputies, who are the rights of the voters. And that's what we're doing today. And, above all, we've heard that we're storing ourselves behind the workstations. So together for Catalonia will never come out of the consensus that political determination, however strong and long it goes, will never pass over public workers and their rights and their willingness to do their job. And let me tell all the Members of this House something: not a lesson to Junts for Catalonia about political determination or why we can have it, because we can explain, as we did to the principle of this intervention, that when we pay with exile, when we pay with pressure. Listen to President Borràs, who has said since she entered politics late in 2017, and said the same, that our problem is not the Central Electoral Board, our problem is not to have a Catalan republic independent of a Catalan electoral union. And you know what? That we'll only have this if independence and democrats work together. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.31.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.32.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. President, deputies, deputies, repression can never normalize, ever. That's why today, today and always, we're at your side, Pau, in all the battles, the repression, of course, and in all the others, all of them. That's why, on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, on behalf of the Republican Left of Catalonia, we make the most sincere embrace and we get all the strength. [[Greetings.]] We're here because an administered organ, without a proper firm judgment, wants to cancel a deputy's record. That was and is intolerable and requires a public complaint. More than legal considerations for the existence of a request for precautionary measures, which should be carried out, because of the principles of presumption of innocence and legal certainty, which are not put into question the condition of a Member of Parliament from Pau Juvilla until its resolution, there are political and moral considerations to express the strongest revulsion for an action designed to violate rights, with the obvious will to obtain the rejection of representatives of citizenship in the exercise of phone and basic rights as freedom of opinion and expression. In a democratic and right state it is inconceivable that we are living in a situation like this. And it is that in the Spanish State, through its institutions which should not be the main guarantors, it violates the civil and political rights of democratic dissent, and it does so with the applause of those who do not come to Parliament, but rather with the laugh of victories in the courts and courts, who pretend to make up for the loss in the ballot box, and with indifference – with indifference – of those who seem not to know Martin Niemöller. Do I remember that? "First they arrested the Communists and I did nothing, because I am not a communist; at the end they came to arrest me and there was no one left to do anything about it. That is why, because we have a state against us, we are convinced and convinced that the only way to win back is that each time we follow more than we are in favour of democracy and against oppression and hitting one time on another with more and more demand for democracy. Complying with this overwhelming majority in favour of democracy must serve not only to achieve freedom, but also to make the rotting of a system that seeks to decide from the bottom to the bottom, against the will of the people, to preserve the pre-blessings of the heretic minorities of the Francoism more clearly. And that's not an appearance, it's a reality. From the Republican Left, we are very clear. From the insurmountable will, with determination loving heart and mind, we are clear that our responsibility as deputies and deputies is to provide our people with a path that can be moved to freedom, without renunciation, humiliation and fire of incense, pointing out what is the real adversary, not the independenceist on the side, but the injustice and oppression that are the means that employ a state, Spanish, willing to do what it is to eliminate us. Because we are those who in our demand for democracy leave their democratic deficits in evidence. And it is precisely because we have a state against all the pure mechanisms available to eliminate the difference that we need to protect the rights of Members and Members, of all, because in us, in 135, the representation of the people of Catalonia is bad; an obligation that is neither up-to-date nor suppressable. We have, therefore, approved an opinion which was approved yesterday by the Committee on the Statute of the Member of the European Parliament, and therefore we are raising to the plenary the defence of the rights of a Member in Pau Juvillà, who is defending the rights of all Members, the 135, and of the citizens who invested in this way, exercising their right to vote. We're reporting an abnormal situation. Not only does the Central Electoral Board intend to declare a Member ineligible for election, but it also intends to intimidate the electorate and the staff of this Parliament so that they can immediately carry out their resolution on the basis of remedies, precautionary measures and the right to effective judicial protection that assists all citizens, as well as the Members. In any democratic country today we would not be here for this reason, but we would also agree that neither could anyone predict that in a state of the European Union, a state of rights and freedoms, we could be witnesses and victims of the authoritarian drift that the Spanish State and its institutions are watching for the past four years. Today – I think everyone must agree – we don't know where we want to be, and we're exactly where we don't want to be two years ago, we're at the same place, although we all weigh, as we then weighed. That's why, we repeat, every threat, every interference, every interference we have to be more. The only way out of this cause of moral and democratic misery is independence and fire in a Catalan republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-03-2301.33.0	Thank you very much. Next, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. The vote will have to be taken by hand, and, in accordance with Rule 98.1 of the Rules of Procedure, Members voting in favour of the opinion will be raised first, after they vote against and, finally, those who abstain. And the recount of votes, I will count on the members of the Bureau to finish it. [[Pause.]] If the servants of the house can enable me the bell to play the vote... because it is required to do so. ( Sound the acoustic signal calling for a vote.) Thank you. The vote begins. I would ask you, if you please, to vote in favour in the first place and not to lower your hand until we have done the recount. Thank you. The vote begins. In favour of the opinion...? Oh, we didn't vote. Aurora... votes in favour? We are voting now, the same, with the Bureau. Against? Abstaining? Okay. So the result of the vote is 73 votes in favour, 53 votes against and there are 8 votes that do not count. Yeah? Is that the correct result, are the members of the Bureau certifying it? [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. So the session's up.
