ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.1.0	Good morning, let's start the session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple folder. I, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, shall be replaced tomorrow morning, as shown on the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also the information, before beginning the order of the day, that, according to the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants..., that according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are a total of 147 victims dead and disappeared to the Mediterranean. So, I can't start this Ple without pointing out that this session is about the composition of the altered chamber for the interference of an administrative organ that opens up powers that are the competence of the judiciary. I know these words I'm saying are uncomfortable and should be. They should never cease to be, because we cannot normalize what has happened in this Parliament this week at all levels. [[Inquiries to the Government on the dissolution of the Committee of Experts to guarantee the rights of use in emergency situations (withdrawn)]] [[300-00104/13]] I would also like to inform you that the Joint Group has withdrawn the question to the Government on the dissolution of the Committee of Experts to guarantee the rights of the people in situations of emergency, which corresponds, in fact, to the sixth item of the agenda. [[Asking the Government about the management of waste]] [[300-00109/13]] So let's start the session talking about the fourth point of the order of the day, asking the government about the waste management. It is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance and has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry Ms Silvia Paneque. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Garcia, yes, please, why ask me the word? One moment, Mrs. Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.2.0	Yes, President. No, to comment that the session cannot begin if there is no secretary at the Bureau, and it has just arrived. I'm telling you why I'm taking this into account. And since we're completing the Rules, or we're trying to complete it, then, we're completing it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.3.0	Ah, I knew the secretary was coming, he was in the infirmary, and he just arrived at the moment. So, now, before we begin the first point of the order of the day with the composition that it allows regularly, I give the word as I said before to Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.4.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Miri, this question is fundamentally motivated by three questions that involve a strong environmental impact in Catalonia and that, therefore, we think they have to capture all our attention and political impulse, at a time of climate crisis like the present, and I underline the "crisis", because in the current context I believe that it acquires its more round meaning. The first question refers to the need for adaptation of the Catalan standard mark to the European directives of 2018 and 2019, of impulses to the circular economy and of reduction of the plastic products, respectively. The second, to the concern of our parliamentary group for the planning of infrastructures for the management of waste, especially since the approval of the moratorium on the dismantling of energy valorization plants of the last month of December, is more when the two documents, Pinfrecat and Precat, which should govern the planning of both the management of waste and of the infrastructures of the management of the same is found to be without vigor, expired since the year 2020. And finally, the third question, about the situation of some porters in Catalonia, and I will especially talk to you about the situation generated by gironine comarques, which you know well, after the feelings of closure. I'll talk about Solius, Vacamorta, but also exhausted capabilities, like that of Lloret. On the first question, I am sure we agree on the need that Catalonia needs approval of this law. In fact, it is one of the priorities of the legislature with which we were to coincide in the first – and only, I must say, too – meeting that we have maintained with you and with your department until today. The European Union has already promoted a comprehensive waste directive, the year 2008, with the aim of transforming our continent, Europe, into a recycling company and contributing to climate change. The waste hierarchy principle was established, and the prioritization of actions in waste treatment: reuse, recycling, recovery – including energy recovery – and disposal. Subsequently, the European Commission carried out different studies and work that marked the need to mark more ambitious targets and a clear time frame that helped to plan the necessary infrastructure for the treatment of waste. And so we come to the two current directives, the one of 2018/851, of the European Parliament and of the Council, which amends the principle of 2008 and which aims to move forward in the circular economy, harmonize policies between Member States, and improve information and traceability. Transparency, in short. And it states that the Member States will take the necessary measures to ensure that the year 2035, around the cantonate, the municipal waste laid down for grabs is as high as the deu_per_cent of the total, and I remind you that Catalonia at these times is situated in the thirty-sis_per_cent. And the second directive, that of the year 2019, concerning the reduction of the impact of certain products of plastic to the environment, marks as priority intervention with the plastics because it is not recycled a twenty-five percent of the plastic collected, and the half ends in shutters. With the same impulse to a recycling company and aligned with the objectives of the climate change struggle, the Government of Spain has transposed these two directives into the Spanish legal order, so that at these times it is in parliamentary process, at these times in the Senate, the draft law of residue and contaminated only, for a circular economy. This is the new mark, it will be the new standard mark set by the Government of Spain from the year 2022. Therefore, Catalonia needs a legal framework updated to the European directive of 2018, which ensures the prevention and reduction of the generation of waste, to protect the environment, for its own human health and to make the transition to a circular and low carbon economy, as well as to the prevention and reduction of the impact of plastic products on health and the environment, with special attention to the aquatic environment. With five criteria? I'll show you the most uplifting ones. The first is to strengthen residue prevention, with measures and objectives which contribute in particular to the objective of sustainable development related to the maladministration of marine food and waste. Second, increase the targets of reuse and recycling of municipal waste. Third, to force to nine collections, between other, bioresidues, textile residues or dangerous domestics. Fourth, expand and clarify the responsibilities of the original producer and the waste manager, establishing mandatory compliments for the producers. Five, incorporate the obligations derived from the 2019 directive, from a use_sol_plastics. Yes, establish plans that define the general residue management strategy and its minimum objectives. Set, define tax instruments to encourage the circular economy. On the other hand, improving information and traceability for the monitoring and control of waste management and contaminated only; that is, increasing transparency in management and the costs of this waste management. And finally, to point out a new one, define and update the sanctioning regime and its procedure. Therefore, we have a new law on waste in Catalonia, which compliments the commitments and objectives marked for the European Union, at the final disposition of the same law approved in Parliament, on 16/2017, of climate change. And also the different motions approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. On the second part, the second question, the planning compromise. The compromise of reduction of gases of winternacle effect of fifty-five_per_cent year 2030 and of decarbonization of our economy 2050 fans of everything necessary to act on those sectors emitted of gases of winternacle effect, among which there is also the management of residues. Of the total emissions, of greenhouse gases in Catalonia, a zinc_per_cent is due to waste management. And from this cinc_per_cent, the seventy-set_per_cent becomes in the deposition of urban waste into shutters. This is data from the first Generality, from the assessment of greenhouse gases in Catalonia, from the year 1990 to 2017. This is why we show our concern to the sealing and dismantling plan, approved the dismemberment passed with the accompanying law to the assumptions, in its additional arrangement second. And I tell him concern, because, unlike other debates we have had so far, Catalonia has always been at the forefront of waste management and warns us of some decisions that we do not think are realistic with the current diagnosis of waste generation in Catalonia. Or, said in another way, do we think it might be possible to arrive, or would it be desirable to have the smallest possible incinerator and residue intake infrastructures? Yes, of course; we share that. Now, do you think you're realistic about this proposal to dismantle those years? Clearly they don't think so. It seems to us that you can make the mistake of starting the house by the roof. First, the moratorium and dismantling, without keeping the European directive transposed into the Catalan legal order, and without keeping the two planning, management and waste infrastructure documents in force. We don't think it's reasonable to have a moratorium on this scene and we're proposing a moratorium on the moratorium. Catalonia, as I said, has been in the forefront of waste management. And, therefore, we ask you not to space it, and that we follow the path that we have pursued so far: to legislate, plan and scale our infrastructure in waste management. Many of us fear that, if not, to want to eliminate incinerators in a hasty manner, you will increase the shutters in Catalonia. And that would be a big mistake. It would be a difficult mistake in ecological terms, to be the most efficient infrastructure of winter gas emissions, and in terms of efficiency and the comfort of objectives; let us remember that the drinkers are the ones who occupy the lowest place in the residue hierarchy. That's to say, the least recommanable. And third, on the porters, there are two situations in gironine comarques that concern us – sure as you will – and we also want to remember the situation of two porters in gironine comarques, who find themselves with firm feelings of closure, and that at this time we do not know which calendars you have planned and which alternatives for joints, such as the Junta de Girona, which, from July 1, will need alternatives to the Solius subscriber for the treatment of its organic fraction, with the extra cost that this will entail for the joint. In short, Catalonia needs to have a clear standard and adopt a new Catalan residue law, in line with European legislation. Or, said in another way, plan before acting in a hasty way; plan consistently the objectives. And we can do this with two documents: with the sectoral territorial plan of municipal waste management infrastructure in Catalonia and with a new prevention and waste and resource management programme in Catalonia, consistent with the new law. This does not prevent us from moving into action immediately, if it is what comes from their department that is intended, and if they shut down dismantlements, let's start with the lower part of the residue hierarchy, with the mouthpieces, to ensure that by 2035 the municipal waste we dispose of is as much as a deu_per_cent of the total, as the European directive points to it. I offer you, as always, all the predisposition to plan together and avoid from everyone who does not exceed this deu_per_cent/ shutter. I think they're two goals that Catalonia needs: basics, planning, and the most urgent, to reduce into mouthpieces. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.5.0	To answer, the words "Climate Action Advisor", "Food" and "Rural Agenda", Ms. Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members... Mrs Paneque, deix'm, before anything else, begin to thank her both her inquiry and that of her parliamentary group, as well as the inquiry that Mrs Palacín will address me from here to one place. And I sincerely appreciate it because I have the opportunity that in your parliamentary office we can debate and manifest the import of this repte, as you said, a repte col·lectiu, which supposes the management of the residues, seems to me to be extremely important. A repte that, as you know, a Member, and you all know, will obviously need all of us to put it on our side. The current climate-emergency context – as well as your reference – makes it clear that it is necessary to legislate to bring a good management of waste to term. In other words, now more than ever you would need conviction, if I may, compromise and a very clear bet. A very clear bet, basically, for two concepts. The first, to improve the quality of life of people, as it cannot be otherwise, and the second, to protect the environment. And that's what we're looking for from the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, and, in this case, specifically from the Agency of Residues of Catalonia. It is, in short, at the disposal of the citizens of our country. And we didn't do it alone – you were talking about it, too, huh? There are many European directives which oblige us to legislate from a perspective and with a very specific approach to our country, but sometimes also from the Spanish State, as we see, know and sometimes patim, it also means that it conditions the decisions that can be taken from the Government of Catalonia. And already the advances that the main idea with which we would have to stay today is an idea, if I may, very clear: we need a paradigm shift in the management of the residue. And, in this sense, the best residue – and it seems to me that I don't absolutely discover anything – is the one, in short, that we don't generate. That is why, as you see and know from other interventions that I have been able to make from the government or from this Faristol, we bet in an extremely determined way for prevention – and you also talked about it – and for the circular economy. That's why this paradigm shift is going to bet on a model based on reduction, obviously also based on reuse and repair, or otherwise, recycling. This first introduction in the form of... if I may, too, of a declaration of intent, what it obviously touches is acting, huh? So I'm going to briefly expose some of the instruments that need to consolidate this transition based on prevention, as we say, and the circular economy. The first – you did not mention it – is the law of prevention and management of waste from the efficient use of Catalonia's resources; the second, the plan of closure and dismantling of the incinerators, has also not spoken, and the third, to end, that has not spoken, but we believe that it is very important, the canon of waste. The future law of prevention and management of waste and efficient use of resources, as you know, must allow, and has also made no reference, to align all those policies that Catalonia will have to undertake in its own years with the established ones, precisely, for the European Union and to give compliment to the regulations in matter, obviously, of climate change. Actually, that's how we voted, and this Parliament approved it. It has done so on various occasions; most recently, at the general political debate. The object, as we say, huh? – we said it then and we reaffirm ourselves now – it is to complete the zero residue, and not just the zero residue, but also the neutrality in the emission of winter-effect gases, incorporating, obviously, the planning of the limitation and closure of urban and industrial waste incineration spaces, and also, at the same time, to develop the road full for the circular economy between the government, businesses and social agents, obviously in coherence with the road full of the European Union. A law, in short, that has to shape this willingness to consolidate a model – I come back, eh? – based on reduction, based on reuse and also based on recycling. At the same time, the new legislation has to involve a review of prevention strategies, collected and treated all residues, as well as competition aspects and also liability for residues and resources to integrate and coordinate aspects of all these areas. Moreover, the future law must serve to strengthen the instruments associated with waste management, such as taxation, which is extremely important, and the producer's enhanced accountability mechanisms, and enable it, so obviously also from us, huh? An example in this area is the incorporation, for example, of the deposit and return system, huh? , and also expand, therefore, administrative optimisation measures, and, as it cannot otherwise be, so also transparency in management. We're working on it; we're doing it tirelessly because we're opening this legislature. It is extremely necessary, I have already talked about it in more than one occasion, and it is also obvious that the first half of the 23rd, if it can be the first months of the 23rd, then the law must be in this Parliament. We've already done all the procedures that precede it because it can be discussed. This government also bets on new policy proposals and, let's say so too, new practices that somehow relate, for example, the environmental vector to the vector, in this case, social, eh? And in this case, therefore, considering prevention and waste management as an economic sector that is – and is very important – capable of generating occupation. The government, therefore, wants to bet on management alternatives that favor the obtaining of new products, such as now chemical material valorization treatments or so many others, and for this reason it is necessary to enhance a wide range of treatment possibilities that allow a material valorization before any residual disposal treatment. This is very important to hear..., to hear everything, in short, as an appeal. We have to value him. The moratorium on incineration must, therefore, allow us to start a change, a change of tendency to rethink the model we use, which causes us to produce and also to manage the waste in another way to prioritize, as we say, prevention, recovery and recycling of materials. At the same time, the locking and dismantling plan must also be a planning instrument. You were also talking about planning, it's extremely important too. A planning that revisits system based on energy valuation, incineration, clearly defining in which plants it affects and which is the basic incineration option, or if it is the alternative, say, who is it, right? , so that you can appreciate it in this case. That is to say that the government complements with what emanates from Parliament, as it cannot otherwise be, and from the legislative power, and representing, obviously also, the sovereignty of this Parliament, eh? , and this is all from a motion adopted in the spring of 2020. And so it was also thanks to Law 2/2021, of 29 December, of fiscal measures, adopting a plan of closure and dismantling, as you know, of existing incinerators. And in this sense, the new law on waste prevention must be the key to deciding the future of waste incineration in Catalonia as well. And I can't finish without talking about the canon. I will do so very quickly, because we will have the opportunity to do so in the next inquiry. The Congress of Deputies approved the opinion of the Committee on Economic Transition and the Demographic Challenge on the waste bill on 23rd December, 21st – you did not speak either. It does not seem to us to be a bad law, it is worth saying, but it is a law that directly tempts against some elements, one of very concrete, which we have been exercising in an exemplary way since Catalonia, and which now, it is said, is seen in peril. In Catalonia two decades ago, practically two decades ago, an environmental tax has been introduced that puts a canon on the disposal of waste in our country. One canon in the area of municipal waste, one in the area of construction waste, and another in the area of industrial waste. As you know, it's about a dog that comes straight back to who pays it. Let me say that we are fully convinced that the Catalan canon is to be defended, and I hope that, obviously, with certain municipalities of our country, with many municipalities of our country, for example, Tarragona, or deix'm to say also Mataró, you here also show your support, because it will be very pleasant. Therefore, and in conclusion, let's leave this first part recalling the need for a paradigm shift, as I insisted on the principle, a real paradigm shift in the management of residues, which is what we are dealing with today. I would also like to end with those questions that I would like to make clear to today's intervention. The first is that the repte is giant, it's not easy, but above all it's a repte collectiu. The best residue we can have is what we don't generate, I said, and therefore, here is the importance of prevention. The second thing that I would also like to make clear is that the impulse of the circular economy and the valorization of waste are important, so that we can promote reuse. And the third, to promote, obviously, the selective collection of high efficiency, and therefore, to ensure recycling. And to keep working on this line, so the instruments that the government already has and doesn't want to lose are important. That's to say, we're gonna defend our own dog and do it, that's to say, until the end, and also the ones we want to promote, huh? With the law of residue, yes, always agree, always, as it cannot be otherwise, always agree with the different views of the sector, which are multiple, and of the territory, so as to contribute between all and all to the struggle against climate change. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, in the turn of the reply, has the word the deputy Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I am glad that we agree in the conviction and in the compromise of the need for this law, and therefore, in this, we will work. You say: "There must be a paradigm shift in the management of residues because that best residue is that, therefore, which is not reality, which is not above the system, but clearly, the reality of Catalonia is that the rate of generation of residues is not as hopeful as the panorama you paint us in this moratoria of incinerators. At these times, the residue production rate is 527 kilos per catal and year, or because we see it on a day-size, each of us generates 1.4 kilos per day of medium residue. We have twenty-three registered warehouses or porters in Catalonia. So, as we say, this residue generation rate, and they see that data from selective collection of urban waste is stagnant and not better from a few years ago, I see it very complicated, and that's where I disagree with all the exposure you've made, I don't see it realistic, and I insist on it, the closure or this plan of dismantling moratoria and dismantling of the incinerators, and I give it some data. In Catalonia, the seven_per_cent of the residues we generate are going to stop at energy valorization plants. The European media is a twenty-i-five, a twenty-i-five. There are points of difference. Energy recovery plants are also being used in Europe in the waste management system. In change, there are thirty-four_per_cent of these total 4-million_tonnes that we generate Catalans in one year. And we have to get to the deu_per_cent of year 2035, which doesn't seem like it, it's around the corner. In fact, in the last two years, we have only decreased by two points, from 44 to 34, and we have to move from 34 to 10 year 2035. Therefore, it does not seem realistically to us this tanking. And shutting down the incinerators or energy recovery plants won't make the residue disappear, the residue will continue to feel, what will happen is that we will open the most mouthpieces in Catalonia, and we will see it soon to spin-off businesses. And finally, I don't know if we're going to do the debate on Mrs. Palacín, but like you've been talking about the canon, so I want to do something about it, too. It is necessary to act throughout the State as has been done in Catalonia. I have already told you that we in Catalonia have been pioneers in the management of waste, and therefore we need to complement European objectives. Many autonomous communities have not established these canons or have done so at very low rates. Institutions such as the European Commission, or the OECD, have claimed that this tax should be established on the right to a state seat, which is being dealt with at these times in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, which, of course, you have said seems like a good law, but Republican Left has voted against it at the moment; let us hope that in the final procedure, therefore, this vote can change. Otherwise, sanctions could be imposed on the part of the European Union if this canon is not established at state level. This tax, of state character, is also included in the recovery, transformation and resilience plan. If it is not complete it could lose access to European foundations, of which Catalonia is also not beneficial, 47_million euros in 2021 for the management of waste. We could lose these resources if this state can't be established, as I said. And this is also done to avoid what is known as the... – I don't like the expression very much, but – ‘Residue tourism' is to say, if there is no harmonisation of this canon at state level, what can happen is that there are autonomous communities that carry their residues to other communities where this tax is lower. Therefore, Counselor, I am pleased that we have this conviction and this commitment for this new law, but I insist that it does not seem realistic to us the plan of plant closure of energy valorization. And I ask him, and I repeat him, as I said to the prince, and I propose to him that we make a mortuary of this mortuary. We're planning, we're legislating, and then we'll see what the size of the residual infrastructure in Catalonia is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.9.0	There's a word for Counselor Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. A few considerations of respect. The first one, at his first intervention, said that we had celebrated – let's just say 'hodir' this – just a meeting in this council, and let's say that that's not true and you know it perfectly, huh? We haven't done a few, have we? In the matter of residue, maybe not. You also know that this week or the week you see one planned before you register this inquiry. I'm saying this because, obviously, if something we do from the department is talking about everything with everybody, it makes sense. And let's also say, the only way that Catalonia has stopped leading in the matter of residue something, which is what we have been able to do during these last two decades, meaning no doubt, the only way this happens is that we lose the canon. That's the only way it's going to happen; that's what I'm getting at. And then if it is, I understand it is, in this inquiry I will try to prove why this argument is. Another thing, that of the subject of the moratorium that I see is that he is obviously very concerned. Therefore, the cremation moratorium allows us, among other things, to be able to draw up the plan and the law. And then, then, decide, make the decisions and that these decisions follow the uncertainties and follow the good ones. At the same time that we are committed to what Europe marks, as I said in a principle too. That's to say, they won't be able to go to more than the deu_per_cent of the residue. Just for all this we work in the paradigm of the circular economy to prevent the vagaries from residual to the abocator. We do not like what comes out of the incinerators' fireplaces and I understand, I mean, that no one who occupies anyone in this Parliament, either. And in any case, what we've approved now is a moratorium, which means they don't worry about nines or growing up anymore. For what he does to Vacamorta, Solius, etcetera, miri, us, as it cannot be otherwise, also, what we have to do is give compliments to the feelings. That's obvious. For what he does to Vacamorta, we have constituted for the first time, that is to say, we have constituted for the first time a follow-up commission that is led by the Secretary of Climate Action and, obviously, also by the Agency of Residues of Catalonia. There are already two meetings and there is a third that is also scheduled. We're working with alternatives. In fact, I already advance that the first buidatge is already in process, for which it does Vacamorta. For what it does to Solius, we are also in contact with municipal entities and we have to do, therefore, as it cannot be otherwise, a policy that is clearly responsible for equipment and infrastructure. The alternatives for Girona city, above all the organic, pass through the transfer plant from Banyoles to Pedret and to Marzà. This is the reality that respects these three things that you proposed to me. As for the canon, so do I. We, I say the law, the law that has presented itself and that now as well pointed is in the Senate, the music pleases us. It's not the principle of a bad law, absolutely. But also the advance that the residue canon for us is fit and important. We obviously demand that the Catalan canon be shielded. We also demand that the law of contaminated waste and soil does not threaten the dog that we have in our country and that it is a dog that counts on the majority consent of this country. And we also demand that a model of pioneering environmental taxation be guaranteed, the right and the right, let me also be so, extremely positive; a canon born of the great political and social consensus in this country. And I also take advantage of it to make a call to all the political groups in this Parliament. I also encourage all of you and the political parties, in a sense of doubt, to contribute actively and, if they allow me, in an extremely determined way because this shielding ends up falling into the element of law. It's obvious we'll all get out and win. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.11.0	Let's move on to the fifth point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the residue canon, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Asking the Government about the residue canon]] [[300-00112/13]] It has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors. Counselor Jordà, before the climate emergency we are living, Esquerra Republicana undertakes to give a firm response that involves the combination of energetic, environmental, sustainability, public health, economic, welfare and quality of life policies that enable us to move forward decisively from all institutions where we have responsibility for government. We have some 2030 sustainable development goals and the goals are not just to carry a pin of colors, but the goals are also to complete them. And in the fight against climate change, one of the key actions is waste management. It is good that we have two questions referring to waste management. It is a good thing that we debate this area so little used, let's say, not just for the citizenry, that it only thinks about the residues when it touches the buttock with the scrap of scumbraries. And that's why my inquiry also puts a lot of light on municipal politics that is made from the local world. In the fight against climate change, one of the key actions is the management of waste, as we say. In this context, the strategy cannot be anything other than the zero remaining objective. From drastic reduction and prevention to the circular economy, the transformation of the waste from the ecodisseny and implementing innovative management processes. At the same time, it is necessary to guarantee a tax framework that allows progress to be made towards this zero-residue and equipped with the administrations to adapt and implement the necessary policies. And it is that we know perfectly well that the local world, like the administration closest to the citizenry, plays a key role, especially in the awareness and the change of habitats, and also marking the example of the bet for sustainability, as well as the better quality of the area and green energy. From the towns and cities, it is necessary to promote public policies that fully assume this paradigm shift respects the management and treatment of waste. Catalonia made an innovative law – it was talked about today – and ambitious in its time, but it has been elongated by the reality of the current needs and of territorial and sustainable balance. This has to be updated, it has to be updated and we have already made a commitment. But there is one element, both of the current law and of the future standard waste prevention and resource efficiency framework, that must be indisputable and we must defend it from all administrations, we are talking about the waste canon. In Catalonia, already with this objective, two decades ago – and in plain reference the councilwoman – it was created a canon on the disposal of waste as a measure of environmental taxation that affected municipal, industrial and also building waste. You can't hear the success of selective collection in Catalonia without this finalist tax instrument. With a relatively modest fee, it has managed until now to multiply the incentive effect to carry out with the hierarchy of waste management that drives the directive and the state legislation. It is understood, therefore, the broad consensus in favour of this canon in Catalonia, since we record the elimination activity, and it is considered to be the most effective way to meet the objectives of the residue regulations. Thus, we encourage a more respectful behaviour with the environment and encourage measures of minimization and material valuation of residues. Also, this feedback model has given momentum to the waste management hierarchy and to the financing of management infrastructure. But now, as the law of contaminated waste and soil is laid down for a circular economy, this model of Catalan success is suddenly put at risk. The proposed state tax does not have the same conception as ours, it is not finalist and supposes a setback. The progress of growth in order to meet the objectives of the European Union in the field of recycling and waste disposal can be discouraged and put to rest in Catalonia after decades of continuous improvement in the local world. And the same effects can have on industry and construction. The modification of the current channel would result in significant impairments to the capacity of waste management policies in Catalonia. And this is easy to value, because it would only be good for each of the deputies of this chamber, for example, to ask their municipal governments which work better, which constructions of new daisies, awareness campaigns, implementation of our collection systems have planned. If we lose the nearby residue chain, they'll be much more tense than municipal assumptions already are. For this reason, a lot of meetings have been discussing during these weeks a camp in defence of the canon. This motion, approved mostly, shows that municipalism positively values the impact of the canon on its public policies for what it does to waste management. All kinds of municipalities, of all the measures and distributed throughout the country have already joined: Vilanova and the Geltrú, the Ràpita, the Vall de Boí, Cerdanyola, Matadepera, Breda, Cabrils, Sant Julià de Ramis, Tarragona and Mataró, and regional councils like that of the Garrotxa. And they have also shown support for this manifesto elected from the Barcelona Assembly, the same mayor of Girona, the mayors of Tarragona and Lleida, among many others. Consistors where this young man has been approved have been asked to modify the structure of this law of contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy, so that the canons that he wants to establish only apply to those communities that do not have a tax with the same characteristics, so that the catal canon is shielded as it is so far known. A model of pioneering environmental taxation, good and positive born of the great political and social consensus in Catalonia. All these joint ventures, as they cannot otherwise be, express their commitment to continue supporting recycling, reduction and reuse programmes in their municipalities, as well as the application of the circular economy. Thus, different groups have joined a manifesto driven by different institutions, entities and personalities in their defense. To value the commitment of Junts per Catalunya, the Candidature of Popular Unity and In Comú Podemos, which have expressed, together with Esquerra Republicana, to give support to the manifesto. Today, she said, the question is why we know of her commitment to the municipalities and to the defense that public policies must be useful to the citizenry. As I said, this Parliament has expressed its consent and its department has expressed its commitment to the need for a new law on waste prevention and resource efficiency. And it is in this sense that it has approved to give compliment to a young man, the moratorium of incinerators, with the compromise to dispose of the new law and a plan to close these infrastructures, which does everything just a few years ago they said it was not possible. I repeat, the objectives are to complete them. This law must be useful to the citizenry and it will be useful because the impact of the law must reduce the volume of waste, increase the recovery of materials and also improve environmental quality with a direct effect on climate change. And the new law must continue to have the tax instrument, the canon, which allows you to return the effort to the local world through the subsidy lines offered by the Agency of Residues of Catalonia. So we're going to express it, too, to the motion following this inquiry, and today I'm sure we can get all the more reason to complain to the Government of the State that it respects the Catalan canon. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.13.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.14.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Palacín. If I have previously thanked the Member of Parliament for bringing to completion a subject such as waste management – not seeing it – the waste management, I think it is also a waste to do so now. So thank you for your initiative to bring to full in this case a more specific theme like the residue canon. You explained it very well, I didn't expect any less of you. All right. We find ourselves before a threat, from a threat to our ability to regulate in the field of residue. Like Catalans and Catalans, we also need to make it clear and brilliantly, what we do is lose a key tool of self-government. In Catalonia, he said years ago– you explained–, almost two decades ago, that an environmental tax has been introduced that puts a canon on the disposal of waste in our country. A canon in the area of municipal waste, also in the waste of construction and in the waste also in the industrial field. And it's, unfortunately, a tool that we see periling. And we see it perilating from two days before Nadal, say, from the 23rd of September, the date on which it was approved by the Congress of Deputies, as I said before, and you also made no reference, the opinion on this bill of law. And it doesn't do anything to us – I've said it before –, it doesn't do anything to us that this law, the law that the State is working on, has interesting aspects. Of course it has interesting aspects. We did not expect less of such a progressive government, but also, let me say that there are others who would have liked us to be much more, much more ambitious on the part of the government. That's also true. Now, it is obvious that we cannot accept in any way, in any way, that an essential instrument such as the catalane residue canon is eliminated. Even more so when Minister Rivera herself, on more than one occasion, acknowledged that this – the Catalan case – is a case of success. Obviously, it's undeniable. We cannot understand how, in order to equip and in some way harmonize – which they say from the State – all the territories, Catalonia was equipped with the rest, with all those who have not done the work, with all those who have not done the dues for many years. I mean, his inaction for two years can't solve it at the expense of Catalans and Catalans. The proposed state tax does not currently have the same conception as the català, and I will try to explain why. In the first place, because it does not have a finalist character, something – if allowed – perilous. And, secondly, in the case of Catalonia, supposes to go back a way that has been going on for years – and Mrs Paneque spoke earlier on, of the model of success in this case –, that years ago we draw with the danger that this is obviously a disincentive effect, for the local world – something that should not have happened in any way – so that progress was made in this case of growth in order to achieve the objectives of the European Union in the matter of recycling and waste disposal. The same effects can have on the industry and obviously also the same effects on construction. We do not object in any case to the creation of a tax on behalf of the Spanish State, it would only be missing. A tax that allows you to cover the needs that exist in this case. But I did leave out – as Congresswoman Palacín pointed out – that I left out those territories that already have a fiscal tool that is useful and that, moreover, we have demonstrated and that, moreover, we have it in operation. A model of environmental taxation – dexi-m 'hodir – pioneer, optim i positiu, born of a great political and social consensus in our country. A great consensus – that is to say – that follows, that continues to hold. Allow me, too, to put the keys to the whole fold and put the rigor on it. Thanks to the canon on the disposal of municipal waste, a total of EUR 647_million has been allocated, which has been earmarked – to give some example –, I repeat, EUR 647_million, more than 250 in composting plants, more than 121 in organic matter and 47_million, for example, in piglets. Thanks to the industrial waste chain, more than EUR 36 million have been allocated during the period of operation, which, among others, have been intended to promote the circular economy – in concrete terms, 8 –; 4 in research and development also for circular economy projects – vital – and almost 11 for the implementation of prevention and preparedness projects for reuse and recycling, in this case industrial waste. Thanks also to the building waste canon, more than €34 million have been recovered. For example, 26 of these 34 in subsidies of recycled arids, more than a million in aid for the promotion of environmental research for recycling in construction and demolition. We think the best way to understand why we're defending the residue canon is to know what allows us to make this canon, the purpose of this imposition. As you know, it's about a dog that comes straight back to who pays it. And, in this sense, and to strengthen the defense of the municipalism that made the deputy Palacín, the canon on the disposition of municipal remains has returned to the locals. And that made it possible for a number of things to happen. For one band, the financing of municipal waste management infrastructure and, on the other, very important – if they allow me – the cost balance of municipal waste management according to the management hierarchy, favoring this way that the selective collection of municipal waste has a lower management cost, lower than the treatment of the remaining fraction, and that this is lower than the elimination cost of the same fraction remains. The replenishment of the industrial and construction waste chain has been returned in its totality to the sectors in the form of grants and in the form of very concrete and specific actions, so that the prevention of generation and the valorization of residues, as well as the impulse of economic activity, has been encouraged. Therefore, and very important, it is not possible to hear the success of selective collection in Catalonia without this instrument. I wouldn't feel it, we wouldn't hear it, there wouldn't be. An instrument which, if I may say so, has a recaptator character, but with the final return of the money recovered and only in this double sense has achieved until today, with a relatively modest fee, to multiply its incentive effect to complete with the hierarchy of waste management that drives the directive and the state legislation, in this case also of waste. Moreover, the governance of the canon is also key here. In fact, governance is always important and important, but in this case..., too. The allocation of these resources not only goes to those who have paid them but it is decided at the canon meetings where all sectors are represented. And it seems to me that it's also worth putting it back together. That is to say: democratic governance, horizontal governance, a governance, obviously shared. We are, today, in Catalonia, thanks to the canon, in a selective collection level of forty-sis_per_cent– of forty-sis_per_cent–; we must move forward, but today we are forty-sis_per_cent. Moreover, the progress of the canon in the later years, in the later years, encourages the municipalities, and not just the municipalities, but the entire production sector to make an explicit effort to improve its waste collection and management systems in order to achieve, by the year 2035, a recycling of 65 % of the municipal waste that is produced..., and that it does not go beyond the disposal of the deu_per_cent. These are our commitments, and the canon here has played and played a key role. And, finally, the climate-emergency context of the European directives and of the compromise conviction and political stakes force to legislate to bring a good management of the residue to Catalonia and to the whole of the Spanish State. What I've just read, literally, is how the manifesto starts – that Congresswoman Palacín talked to us about it a while ago, huh? –, a manifesto in defense of the canon that a servant has signed, and, in fact, I have not been the only one. Precisely, many other people, many other entities, collectivities, and we of all kinds have signed it too. It is the first paragraph of a document that has been able to apply, as said, ecological entities, employers, chambers of commerce, unions, unions, councils, advisers, ex-advisors, ex-advisors, directors, ex-directors, deputies, deputies, mayors, mayors, etc. A manifesto that has allowed to agree, among others, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the Association of Micropoples. Hundreds of municipalities, congresses and a large etcetera. I believe – I believe, if I may, and with all the humility of the world – that remains as demonstrated as cross-sectional is the support of the Catalan canon of residues, as obviously is, also, his consent. And I finish: residue management is complex; it is, it is very, we know. This is because it means, in short, entering the homes of the people and changing costumes, changing costumes that have been in place for years, but it is necessary to do so; doing so before the climate emergency that we live and also, as we have said – I have said on some occasion – also to improve the quality of life of the citizens of Catalonia. And the residue canon is a key tool for achieving those goals that we have marked with the country and that we have also marked as a society for better salvation and a better life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the location and identification of the disappeared persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship and the dignity of the common pits]] [[300-00115/13]] Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government about the location and identification of the disappeared persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship and the dignity of the common pits, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry to Mrs Jeannine Abella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.16.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Today I'm opening up at the cliff of this chamber and it's a great responsibility to do so with a subject as sensitive as the dignity of the common pits and the location and identification of people who disappeared during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. Twenty-eight years have passed, it's recent history, a living history that we can still listen to from the first hand of the people who suffered it. People who today still hope to be able to recover the missing family members. Because to have answers is to hang a doll that does too many years that lasts. After three years of a harsh civil war in which more than half a million people were murdered, between 1939 and 1975 Catalonia lived under the Franco dictatorship. The dictatorship imposed an authoritarian type of state that annulled the institutions of self-government, suppressed Catalan language and culture and all manifestation of national identity. The French authorities have deployed the repression to all those people who, because of their political orientation, ideas or beliefs, or because of their way of life and social participation, are considered enemies of the regime. On these ideas the franchise built its institutions and now sought to dissolve and attack our nation's own. Twenty-eight years have passed, yes, for a long time now that it does not seem so, so that we still carry certain pieces of that terrible part of the story: repression and more repression. The examples. Because a language is not put at risk with a language immersion model that works. The language is in danger when the person who speaks it runs the risk of losing his life because of the simple fact of doing so, and that happened. The Statute of Catalonia of 1932 was repealed in 1938 in an illegal act of the dictatorship. They also formed the war auditoriums of the occupation army and were hard to execute through the war councils as well as through the medium of political repression. These trials violated all the competitions, the legality and dignity of the righteous, and must be considered null and void. These Francoist war councils cannot be considered in any way jurisdictional organs. It was a farce that served as an excuse to eliminate innocent people who just thought different. It is justiciable, to the attention of victims and their families, to perform all those actions that seek to ascertain and declare definitively the nullity of all those procedures and of the harsh penalties and sentences that have been carried out. Since 2003, the Generalitat de Catalunya has been actively working to locate people who disappeared during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. The Pla de fois, executed by the General Directorate of Democratic Memory, with the advice of the Technical Committee Advisor for Recovery and Identification of Disappeared Persons during the Civil War and the Francoist dictatorship, has as its objective to make the opening of pits in order to be able to analyze and identify the remains found and return them to their relatives or, if it is not possible, to give them a decent burial rehumanize them to the cements of the municipal term in which they were found. To do this, historical, archeological and anthropological studies are carried out, consisting of prospecting, excavations, analytical studies and gathering of witnesses to determine the circumstances of the disappearance and increase the possibilities of finding the disappeared. When I was a registrar, I had the opportunity to follow from first hand the opening of one of the pits in my municipality, Isona and Conca Della, in concrete, in Figuerola d'Orcau, one of many where they recovered said cosés thanks, in part, to witnesses of the comings and comings that remembered where there was the hospital of the campaign and where the coses were buried. Later, the remains were buried in the cemetery, as they could not be identified. I've had a very emotional experience, and I think it still needs to be more comforting that there are occasions, as was the case with this year 2021, when seven families can get a call informing their family that they found themselves. I also remember that the technicians stressed the importance that the relatives of the disappeared are taking genetic samples so as to include them in the register; as the family member, they are more likely than the genetic material to match in the event of a match. At the time of assessing the viability or not of the opening of a ditch, consideration is given to the information available: location of the probable ditch, number of people who can be buried, possibility to identify each of the bones, etc. The realization of an activity of this type, without having the information and the means necessary for this effect, may not only result in the intervention being unsuccessful, but may lead to the degradation of the genetic material and the loss of information necessary to identify the bodies. It is for this reason that the Administration of the Generality, on the basis of its assumptions, takes care of the actions in order to be able to locate, recover and identify the disappeared persons with the help of a highly specialized technical team. During the year 2021, archeological work was completed in four pits. The mass grave of Santa Magdalena, of Móra d'Ebre, which is the largest and most found pit, which took place on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, allowed 177 individuals to be recovered in jobs that lasted longer than seven months. Secondly, in April 2021, an excavation was carried out at the cemetery in Montjuïc, with the aim of locating the remains of the Cuban poet Pablo de la Torriente, but they were not fruitful. On the 27th of October they began work in the den of the Linguaderes of Quico, in the village of Massaluca, which allowed them to recover four cossos. And finally, the September of 2021, a prospect took place at the Gurb Griera massif to find two Barcelona bombers, where finally it was not possible to find these ossial remains. At the same time, and also during 2021, thirty-one acts of surface debris collection were carried out, which are compatible with the remains of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. There had been localizations for citizens, squadron movements or rural agents. Special mention deserves also the important successes obtained thanks to the genetic identification program, which allowed, as I said earlier, that at the length of the year 2021 seven individuals could return to their families. In this mark is where we find the deployment of the valid Pla de fois 2020-2022, which this year has been increased in its presupposition by 336,000_euros, a game that has almost allowed to double the existence and that will go for search, location and recovery actions of missing persons. And I finish: the presupposition of 2022 will probably be the last before Catalonia has a democratic memory law. The government has planned to bring the bill's preliminary draft to this chamber in its own months, so that it can be debated and approved, with a consensus text, with as many parliamentary groups as possible. A law that is ambitious, comprehensive, guaranteed and innovative, and that, therefore, will have to be endowed with economic, human and technical resources if we really want to deploy public policies of democratic memory under the principles of truth, justice, reparation and memory. The objective is clear: to repair historical facts to avoid repetitions in the present. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.17.0	Thank you very much. Then, the word has the counselor of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.18.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... MP Abella, thank you very much for this inquiry. Mirin, on the morning of July 25, 38, the People's Army of the Republic began the offensive of the Jew, an offensive that in a first instance was very successful: the Republicans defeated the enemy in various points and, finally, succeeded in occupying a part of the territory that was under rebel control. The action, however, was stopped at the gates of Gandesa. This fact led to the longest and most bloody battle of the Civil War in Catalonia, a battle of wear and tear between two armies that would last one hundred and fifteen days, resulting in thousands of dead, wounded or missing people. One of the most punished scenes for the bombings and counter-offensives of the rebel army made the sector between Corbera d'Ebre and Vilalba dels Arcs. Republican resistance was strong in a significant number of places. Unfortunately, the lack of effect, of understanding and, especially, the air superiority of the Francos caused the Republicans to finally and in an unbridled manner abandon the conquered spaces. Men and women of all condition and age lost their lives among many young people, who were called the "carve of the bottle"; men and women, with names and surnames, who left couples, left mothers, Germans, couples and children who in many cases never went back and neither did they know who their end was. In Josep Sans Cabot he was one of these people, one of these people oblivious to many, but permanently remembered for his; in Josep he lost his life to the battle of the Jew. I didn't really know his story, a history of decades of patience that could explain to me, in the first person, both his daughter and his granddaughter; a story that could be that of many other soldiers. In Josep was born April 1908 to Sant Andreu de Llavaneres, to Maresme. He was just thirty years old when he was shouted at the front of the Ebre. It was the month of March of the year 38 and he had to leave his work of payment, his wife and her daughter, the Rose, of only three months, a young family full of projects and illusions in advance. In Josep he went to the front framed in the third division of the republic army. The end of the war didn't come back. His wife, the Dorotea, knew she had disappeared to the front, but they never notified him of her death. He looked all his life with the hope that he was still alive, but he never knew anything about it. Now we know that, a few months after going to the front, September of the 38th, Josep died to the High Land. In Josep, only one of the thousands of people who disappeared from the Civil War and the post-war period left Catalonia, many of whom still today – still today – remain buried in common pits anonymously. We currently have more than six hundred documents from across the country. From an archeological action due to the end of the area of Vilalba dels Arcs, between December 2009 and generation of 10, they recovered the remains of four people killed during the Battle of the Ebre. There were four anonymous people who were exhumed and included in the genetic identification program circuit. At the same time, the year 2010 the Rose, the daughter of Josep, called for the search of her father to the Generality. And in Josep Sans Cabot, that soldier, husband and father, of whom they never knew more, was enrolled in the hundreds of missing persons to try to know the place of burial and, if possible, recover its remains and allow you to participate in the genetic identification program. At present, tell them that there are 6,223 people registered in this census, of whom it was possible to send documentation to family members in about sixty_per_cent of the cases. Twenty-i-five_per_cent are cases of people outside Catalonia, and 2.5_per_cent of registered people are women. Returning to the history of Josep, tell them that, from the information we obtained from the search, we knew that his death had occurred on 9 September of the year 38, to the sector, like the gods, of Vilalba dels Arcs, during a day of intense fighting, that his body – we knew – was removed from the right and that he was buried together with four more soldiers, enjoying the crater that had opened a projectile of French aviation. Last November, eighty-three years after his death, we were able to return the remains of Josep Sans Cabot to his daughter and to his nets, and then rest at the cemetery of Sant Andreu de Llavaneres, where he still lives today his family, in the city. The same day we also returned the remains of another Republican soldier, Anton Casanovas, to his daughter and net, in this case, to the city of Sabadell. This is a job that, although late, I'm sure that too late, we're making up for even the pain of these families and helping them to stop the pain. Two examples, which I have explained to you, hopefully and also of perseverance like that of the family, in this case, of Cipriano Martos, victim of the repression of tardifranchism and which, if all goes well, lasts to the end his exhumation of the Cemetery of Reus - we hope to be successful - because he can rest at the side of his relatives and not in a pit of charity, in which he was buried after being tortured until death due to his anti-French militancy. That was September 17th of '73. When we talk about returning to the family members the victims of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, I want to value the work that has been done and is being done since the General Directorate of Democratic Memory, the Department of Justice, an ingenious work of historiographical research – the deputy explained it very well – in the elaboration of technical work to document and locate nine pits. Arxium buiding work that allows us to incorporate nine people into the hundreds of disappearances for a long time the opening of pits on the part of the archaeologists team. And finally, the analysis of both anthropolegs and geneticists of the exhumed remains to identify and return those found remains to their relatives. As I said, the case of Josep Sans, Antonio Casanovas, Francisco Salvador or Salvador Moreno Costa to mention the four last ones, which are four examples of a successful program such as that of genetic identification and which lacks the collaboration between the Department of Justice and the Department of Health through the University Hospital of the Valley of Hebron, to whom I would especially like to thank his sensitivity and dedication. A program that today – and I stand out today because it hasn't been so many years since we can take advantage of this technology – allows us to have databases of genetic profiles of relatives of missing persons, which can be created with the extrem genetic profiles of the remnants found in the fields where we are intervening. And while the genetic identification program currently has 2,684 extremities for family members, it is obvious that we need to do, as we do, a greater and more ambitious outreach effort to increase this xifra and increase the knowledge of the society as a whole as much of the existence of the hundreds of missing people as of the proposed genetic identification program. Now that we have the tools that make it possible to create these genetic profiles of the family members with those of the remains recovered from archeological interventions, now that we can put science at the disposal of the democratic memory, so that we do everything possible – and this is our compromise – to reach all and every family that has a family missing during the Civil War or during the Franco dictatorship. I'm done. That is why I announce to you the firm commitment to further boost the public policies of the General Directorate of Democratic Memory, competing with the actions in the pits, which has gone from having a budget of 447,000 euros in 2021, to more than 800,000 euros for the year 22. We'll make it possible. For what it does to the interventions in pits closing in 2022 the current plan of pits, we will intervene there where we have located remains on the surface to the Lower Camp, the Bank of Ebre and the Upper Earth. We will address the opening of pits linked to bell or retreat hospitals in the districts of Urgell, Segria, Noguera or the Upper Land. And, finally, we would act in those pits located outside the cemetery in the districts of Anoia, Moianès and Bergedà. During the second semester of the year we will address the exhumation of Cipriano Martos at the pits of 2023-2025, and we will close the year with the inauguration of a public exhibition of the actions realized for the Generalitat in the field of the common pits of the Civil War and Francoism. Therefore, we have a firm commitment because, before the intolerance and hatred that the heretics of whom they perpetrated in those atrocities and try to sow still today, I would like to recall a few words from Montserrat Roig: "If there is an act of love, this is the memory. Because the struggle for equality, democracy and freedom of Josep Sans Cabot, Francisco Salvador García, Salvador Moreno and Anton Casanovas Castany and so many others never fall into oblivion. This is our compromise. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the new basic education curriculum]] [[300-00106/13]] Let's move on to the 8th item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the new basic education curriculum, which was presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. He has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late. It has caused the leaking in the press of some principles and concretions of a draft decree on the organization of basic education teachings which the Generalitat has sent to the Government, and which, in general, suffers from a marked partisan, ideological and indoctrinating character. This irregular way of getting to know the guidelines of this draft is a finding of the rejection of the contrast of opinions, the repugnance, the constructive criticism and the lack of transparency, forgiveness, and confidence of the Department of Education that you lead, Mr González. In short, it is a further demonstration of the usual sectarianism of the Government of the Generalitat and of the distance with the people of Catalonia. The detailed reading of the article and the annexes leads to a capital surprise, to a disappointment, I would say. This is a reissue of the 2015 ordination decree, which copies its same pedagogical methodology, based on a competitive model, and its evaluation criteria with some slight retouching. But the fundamental thing, the novelty lies basically in the increase of the ideology of the pedagogical principles and of the contents, elevating them to the category of dogmas. This draft represents an effective early sentence for our children, because if you want to transform the current model of Catalan school, improve the, unfortunately I have to say that it is mediocre, absolutely mediocre, you cannot apply the same recipe as in 2015 and align it with new ideological principles of party and opinion groups. I'll explain. First, the draft states that it is necessary to teach different subjects by focusing on moving students to empathy, emotions and self-esteem, prioritizing attitudes about knowledge and prioritizing a project-based learning method. It also allows to promote courses, to pass courses, regardless of the number of subjects suspended. Second of all. The ideological premises that will emerge, which structure the draft of this decree, are of three types. One, of a nationalist political character, as can be seen in the commitment to address in social sciences, for example, and I quote literally: "The recognition of resistance to oppression as a fundamental right of peoples, and to pose the identification of social struggles and movements and national emancipation, precisely in a chapter on Catalonia and Spain in the contemporary era. And we also appreciate this component, this imprint, this ideological premise, in the express desire that students be aware of the belonging to the Catalan linguistic and cultural community, and show interest in the use of this language, considering it as the only vehicle language of the Catalan educational system; Annex 2, page 6. Two. Of a uniform, monocolor nature, since it only addresses, it speaks of a type of model of educational organization, that based on co-education and the model of inclusive school. Three. Globalist in nature, insisting that students must build their own identity, their own personality, taking into account individual differences, but also the gender perspective. Following the state pattern, based on an affective-sexual formation according to the premises of gender and LGBTI rights; and imposing, in addition, the objectives of sustainable development marked by Agenda 20-30. Well, after this diagnosis that I have presented to you, so as not to incur, so as not to fall only on the ground of the complaint and not to result or not to look like a grudge, I put to you an alternative draft, which by activating it can improve the model of Catalan school, which, as I said before, is mediocre, unfortunately. First of all. Faced with the sterile continuity of the educational plan contained in the draft decree, it is necessary to apply common sense and commitment to freedom. In other words, mastery of knowledge is very important. It is essential to give them priority in learning through understanding, memorization, repetition and frequent evocation. And thanks to these aspects, we can transmit, we can get our students to get a solid cause knowledge, through which to be able to reflect, interpret and reach conclusions with rigor and criterion. For this reason, project-based learning works well, but it works well if only students have well-established and well-established knowledge. For this reason, in universities, this type of methodology works quite well, not so in early childhood education and primary education, where students have not acquired this lasting and meaningful learning. In addition, evaluation criteria should be based on the pursuit of excellence through the demand and promotion of effort; aspects that are not at all in conflict with the delicacy of teachers and the prudence of pupils. But as the draft contemplates, it allows the possibility to pass course, to promote, regardless of the number of suspended subjects, the door to the law of minimal effort is opened. And, therefore, education is fulminated as a social elevator, and the convenient tool that could be education, becomes a kind of attribute or tool to hypnotize children until they become obedient subjects subject without critical ability to the ideological instructions of the Department of Education in turn. Do you believe that parents who make an unrelenting effort, who work hard, with determination and sacrifice to get their family out of the way, want their children to be educated in the lack of a spirit of overcoming, in the lack of demand? Second of all. The school has to be a space free of ideology, it has to be a space in which ideological and political neutrality reigns; objectivity and the scientific method must guide the contents of the subjects, eradicating the tendentious and subjective approach that is imposed, for example, in the knowledge of annex III of social sciences by posing, as I have mentioned before, the identification of the struggles and social movements and of national emancipation in that context of the chapter on Catalonia and Spain in the contemporary era. Likewise, the cohesion of our society originates, or must lie in absolute respect for people above all, and the laws. However, disregarding the sociolinguistic reality of Catalonia, whose majority of citizens are Spanish-speaking, and the compliance with the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that obliges the Generalitat to make the Spanish language a vehicle for education in percentages not less than twenty-five per cent, this draft imposes that Catalan is the only vehicle for learning, and also considers it a necessary weapon to spread the separatist sentiment among students. It is an absolute anomaly that, in a part of the Spanish territory, as is the case with Catalonia, a child cannot study in Spanish. Moreover, although its indoctrination is a segregated draft to differentiated education, it is a model endorsed by the UNESCO International Convention against School Segregation, signed by the countries of the European Union and also endorsed, and recognized, by article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution. It also disregards the draft of special education, obviating that there are very complex, very complex problems that require special education to promote effective inclusion for children with special educational needs. Thus, in VOX we believe that all educational models, all of them, are necessary and appropriate: public, mixed, differentiated, private, inclusive and special. Well, it insists obsessively on the draft in which students must obey the dogmas of the ecological transition, which in fact consists in transferring huge amounts of money from the middle and working classes to the elites that drive the climate agenda. In the face of this misconception, children must be aware that the necessary conservation and improvement of the natural environment must be carried out with respect for the quality of life of the people. Finally, it is necessary to defend the right of parents to education that they consider more appropriate for their children. As the common sense and article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution dictates, contrary to the affective-sexual indoctrination that follows the gender premises and the LGBTI rights that further marginalize any other anthropological approach to sexuality. Well, so far, then, this interpellation, and then, if I may, I will raise some aspect that has remained pending. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, then, to make the reply, the advisor Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, advisor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.22.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs Acosta, Mirin, I have to tell you that I like to have an inquiry to discuss the new educational curriculum, and that's what I'm going to do today. Today I will share with all of you how we are working, together with the educational community, the new educational curriculum. And besides, it will also serve me to undo some of the misunderstandings and some misinterpretations – you said – that have taken place in the last few days. And as always, and unfortunately we are accustomed to it, I will also answer, I do not know whether in this turn or in the next, I will answer some of the falsehoods to which you, permanently, every time you intervene in this Parliament, therefore, get used to repeating. Curriculum reform is of special importance. Curriculum reform is very important in order to advance in educational transformation, in order to advance, not only with what our children and young people learn, but above all, as they learn, above all with what these learnings are meaningful. First of all, I need to clarify where you're going. We are currently working on a curriculum project for the next course of the modification that emanates from a law that we already know neither do you like, which is LOMLOE. LOMLOE incorporates competitive teaching in all educational stages, it is based on four royal decrees, and from here what we do in Catalonia is to promote three curricular decrees. A decree of basic education instruction, which includes primary education, ESO and basic grade format cycle; a decree for child education, for the first time we will order child education through the curriculum; and a decree for batting. And what we've done so far is start working on primary and secondary curricula. For the first time, for the first time we have a participatory process. We've never done a participatory process around the resumes, because we believe everyone's participation and because we create consensus. This participatory process is open until the 18th of February and we get all the inputs. Therefore, we are in front of a eraser, we are in front of a eraser that once we get all the inputs, all the papers, all the proposals, will serve us to improve the first text, will serve us to improve this eraser. The new decrees will enter into force on 1 September, the next course 22-23, and the courses will enter into force on 1st, 3rd and 5th of primary; on 1st, 3rd of ESO, and on 1st of battling. Course 23-24 will incorporate the new curriculum into the rest of the courses of the education system. And here I would like to point out that we, in Catalonia, have been working with this competitive vision for years now. The curriculum, basically, tells us that we need to learn differently from what we've been learning so far, because the learning challenges of the education system are different now than they were 20 years ago. We can't have the same school we had 20 years ago, because our infants and our young people face different situations in a changing world, and we need to be able to move forward and educate citizens with more critical, more free, and the ability to make the best decisions in their lives. And for this Catalonia, the most advanced territory traditionally, pedagogically, since 2015 that we are already applying part of these competitive learnings. Let's start a path of change, let's start a path of pedagogical transformation, a structural path, a path that these resumes will provide our educational centers, the 5,400 educational centers of the country, equip them with tools and conditions to educate our infants as best as possible. I'll explain a little what this résumé is all about. The first very important fact, we do it is to inspire us, to base us on what we already know works. We do not work for events and therefore we work for evidence and what we do is to inspire ourselves in how the most advanced countries at European education level are advancing into educational transformation. This curriculum basically has two very high-level areas. The first is the assessment, and the next is the competition. First the assessment and then the competitions. For what he does to the assessment, the families get more information than he gets so far. I repeat again: the families have more information than they have until now. The quarterly information will continue to be collected, all quarterly evaluations, but more so, until now, quarterly evaluations with indicators and now what they will do will be subject to quarterly evaluations with indicators and, more importantly, qualitative evaluation. I'll give you an example. If an infant makes an oral presentation, it is very good to qualify it through an indicator, "absolutely satisfactory, "significant, "excellent, but still better, complementing this quantitative indicator..., qualitative indicators of what..., if he dominates the content of the presentation he has made, which vocabulary he has made, as expressed at the level of speech. Therefore, we are ahead of a formative and formative assessment that has to..., master and student must know, from the initial moment, the starting point and where they want to arrive. He's not the same student who's here and wants to get here as one who's here and wants to get here. Therefore, we must be sure that this assessment is personalized, adapted to the different abilities of our infants. You're referring to the suspect. Well, a lot of information isn't there, because what this decree erases is... it doesn't change anything for what it does on suspicion since 2015. We operate in the same way that he does to the suspicion since the year 2015 and, therefore, we do believe in our teaching teams. The best for the student is not always to repeat course. And that's what you tell us... that's what the data and indicators tell us back to the year: Catalonia is from the territories of the Spanish State where there are the most suspected, at European level, and that's not a guarantee of educational success. And then the other important thing in this curriculum that changes our gaze, changes our gaze and changes us for ever, transforming, that we are working for competitive areas; autonomy of the centers, autonomy of the centers to decide their educational projects of centers. He doesn't lose a specialist, he doesn't lose a specialist in these resumes. What we do is, part of the hours, the autonomy of the educational centres and these hours each educational centre, each school and every institute in the country can adapt these areas of competence for learning with the different specialists they have at their disposal. Centres can also continue to do so now; if there are schools and institutes, they can continue to do so now. Now, we're making it easier for them to give them coverage so that they're organized for competitive areas and we'll accompany them with training and whatever else they want to be organized for competitive areas. In fact, if you allow me, there are already some centres that are organised for competition. What happens is that so far as they were to reflect the times for matter, therefore, reflecting the times in a way for matter were organized for competing areas, the inspector went there, said: "Val, all right, it's for matter and they're still moving forward. So, what we do is make it easy and give coverage. Work for projects, you make reference. Project work means connecting, connecting contents of different materials, so the learning is more day-to-day oriented. In other words, if we do a job for projects to organize a trip, it means that there will be interventions from areas of culture, geography, calculating the costs of the trip, at the mathematical and economic level, the competing areas, writing to families, informing the journey, organizing the route, making the journey plan, the English to prepare for this trip, history and, finally, the thought of that right through philosophy. And transversal contents, you make reference; transversal contents, and in plain reference in the opposite direction to which I will say everything followed, that is that we believe in emotional education. We believe in emotional well-being and believe that infants must also be competent and above all at the time of facing the different situations in which they will find themselves during their lifetime. And also at the school stage, how happy we are to have a child, better after and, therefore, you seemed to be dealing with this subject; so it is important that, the student, we accompany him to the emotional level. Gender perspective, cross-cutting content in new curricula, and also democratic and global content. For what it does to..., after the reply I will expand the information, but very important the subject that... I must congratulate you. I must always congratulate them, in any case, even though it is only for the imagination they have and for the fascinating ability to take facts and words out of context. That's very good. They know how to do it. Now let's get some of the lies out of the classroom. He gave you resistance to oppression. They said sentences, they said words, and they got them out of context. So... well, I was running out of time. On the subject of resistance to oppression, I will answer to the next question. Five-seconds doesn't give me time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Gonzàlez, I am quite surprised, because you have not answered basically any of the questions, the aspects to which I have referred, even in a somewhat detailed way. In the end, then, you said that the issue of suspensions always worked the same. That's not true. He therefore spoke of generalities as to what the curriculum consists of. That we can already read, I say again to you, in the decree of 2015, since this draft is a reissue. But, in any case, I feel very honored because..., and very happy, sincerely, because thanks to our inquiry you have hidden this lack of transparency and brought it up..., you have told us about this draft of the decree of ordination of basic education, of the teachings of basic education. Well, I'm gonna give you some data so that you... I don't know, maybe you don't really take this into account, do you? So to show you that the model of Catalan school is not a model of success. And to the data I refer, because you have also made a comment that has a somewhat supremacist tenets, when you have said that it is the most advanced territory, Catalonia, on the subject of education. So, well, it is necessary, then, here to bring a bath of reality and I refer to the data, right? Year 2018, are the latest PISA tests. There is a decrease in the performance of Catalan students in mathematics, science, reading comprehension. They have descended since 2015 in a 9,7_per_cent, a 9,8_per_cent and a 9,6_per_cent, respectively. Another data: 2020, 17,4_per_cent of Catalan students prematurely abandon their studies according to the data of the Idescat. Another fact, in case these were not enough: the PAP tests to access the degree of Education only exceeded them, the last ones, in the 21, 2,290 people, students, of 4,240. In addition, I could tell you about the thousand_six school barracks that exist; there are only eighty_y_five barracks in the Gironès region. In the results of the ESO's fourth core competencies, the latest results, have come down in mathematics and English. And, perhaps this is most important, when we talk about the model of Catalan school as a model of social cohesion, a family in Canet – as everyone knows – asks for classes in Spanish and undergoes a campaign of harassment – with the complicity of this Government – of teachers and some families, eh? An example of social cohesion. Good. The memory of the Service of the Child Response, of the DGAIA, says that school harassment is the most prominent problem in the field of violence among minors, eh? Another human and social element that invites us to question, at least, this model of success of Catalan school. Each year there is evidence of a progressive growth of calls in relation to school harassment. However, a total of €392,000 has been invested in school harassment prevention and detention programmes over the past five years. Do you know how much the Association for Sexual and Reproductive Rights that provides sex education in schools has received in the same period of time? More than 680,000 euros, double. On the decree, the draft decree, I'll add a couple more notes. According to the draft, what is important is that students develop resilience and a proactive attitude to new challenges and understand error as an opportunity for learning. It doesn't matter if students don't learn to add, in the case of mathematics, for example, divide, multiply or subtract. The important thing is this other one. Well, I'll give you a different touch to the surgery. I will recall some verses by Nicolás Fernández de Moratín, the father, also poet, of the distinguished Spanish neoclassical poet Leandro Fernández de Moratín, who said as follows: « Admire a Portuguese/ to see that in his early childhood/ all the children of France / knew how to speak French. Diabolical art is, / he said, twisting the mustache, / that to speak in gabacho/ a trust in Portugal / arrives to old man, and speaks it badly; / and here a boy speaks it. ........................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.25.0	Then, the word has the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.26.0	Thank you, President. Deputies... well, Congressman Acosta, I've done is inform him and explain the context, because it's important to explain the context. Because you say, "We can read it. No, no, I don't think you read it, in the sense that they make very concrete interpretations and very different from what you read. And, therefore, I, here today, what I wanted to do – and I think we always need to be able to explain – is to explain to him what the meaning of this curriculum is. If you wanted to listen to me or you wanted to hear me or not, it's something else. Before answering some of his concrete themes of the first intervention. In any case, yes, two very clear themes. Because I don't allow that, no complicity with any settlement campaign. Head complicit. He will never find any complicity with any campaign to set up from this government and from this education counselor. We are the ones of coexistence, we do not discriminate against anyone, neither for reason of language nor for reason of gender. You are the ones of conflict and you are the ones of ideology that fits little with democratic principles. [[Some applause.]] You said: "Resistance to oppression. This idea appears in the program of social sciences, geography and history, concretely, apart from societies and territories, where, among many other themes, it is about the recognition of the resistance to oppression as the right of speech of the people. Resistance to oppression understood as peaceful opposition before the violation of personal and social rights. And this resistance is reflected in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the City of 1789, which is one of the historical documents on which the present human rights are based. In concrete terms, in article 2 which says: "The aim of all political association is the preservation of the natural and indispensable rights of man. These rights are freedom, property, security and resistance to oppression. « National emancipation. This concept appears in the same program, which deals with the identification of struggles and social movements and national emancipation. National emancipation and social movements are understood as those movements which, especially since the 19th century with the names of bourgeois revolutions, have claimed social conquests for the peoples and for the claim of historical nationalities such as the Greek revolution, which led to the independence of Greece from the Ottoman Empire, from 1821 to 1832. I also recall that the right to self-determination is considered for the UN as a fundamental principle of human rights in Article 1 of the United Nations Charter. And it looks good that you have a problem with human rights. That's why, maybe, they don't like us teaching them at school and educating them in human rights. Look, the Catalan education system educates children and young people to achieve school success and educational excellence. And you also spoke of "identities." Everything I've commented on also happens because every student feels completely free to express their identity and respect for others. Cultural identity as well as personal, sexual, genera, class, ethnic or religious identity. Identity is the combination of characteristics that make a person or a community remain the same. And, if I may, in the minute and half I'm left, very important: the « Coeduca 't. Another topic that interests you very much is always ‘Coeduca't; I know why you have presented a bunch of questions related to ‘Coeduca't. First of all, I must say that affective and sexual education is a human right recognized in different international instruments and agreements. In Catalonia we have a legislative framework that contemplates affective and sexual education through normative differences. Up to six laws approved in this Parliament in the last twelve years bring this issue back. With the ‘Coeduca' we compliment this mandate and include emotional and sexual education in the curricula of the stages of childhood education, primary education and secondary education as a tool for hearing sexuality and diversity, as well as for building positive relationships that promote non-discrimination, respect and affectivity. We understand perfectly well that this makes you so nervous, because it plays head-on with what you always defend, because it's one more tool to fight against xenophobia, racism and the masculinity that you used to bleach. You deny even this male-based violence and abhor targets for sustainable development set on the 2030 agenda. And the "Coeduca" is not part of the curriculum nor is it a program exclusively of sex education, is incorporated cross-sectionally, and we will follow it. For resumes that accompany and educate our infants, our young people with more critical feelings, more free and more able to make the best decisions in their lives. We'll follow the path. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.27.0	Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the planning of the 2022-2023 school year, which the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units has presented for Progress. [[Asking the Government about the planning of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[300-00108/13]] You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.28.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, we sleep in the month of March, which is the month in which the pre-registrations of children, of compulsory secondary school education are to be made; a little more will come from batting and form cycles. And we found it appropriate to make this inquiry to share concerns that we have with regard to the planning of our own school year and, concretely, on vocational training and the zero-three stage of education. And to give you time, counselor, to resolve and improve some issues that concern us, not to repeat mistakes that we have seen in other years and, therefore, to be constructive and to be able to contribute to the better of the system. Before anything else, though, I would like to begin by expressing our support for the directions and for the teachers for the management that they have had to do in the last weeks, especially in the month of generation, a few very hard weeks marked for the entrance of the variety to the schools and institutes in a very intense way and that has left the teachers and the teachers overflowing and the directions exhaustive. Certainly, directions that many years ago have seen their functions and responsibilities increased, but that keep the same hours of management that a decade ago, that do not cover completely for the performance of the directive function, but that, in change, the heads of the week are passed managing high and low covid or managing replacements. And substitutes, counselor, that, despite the daily appointments, have not been covered in fifty_per_cent, that have not arrived. We know that, in eleven days of generation, the basses have exceeded 9,300 docents, but that they have only been able to replace 4,100; therefore, less than half. I would like to ask you if you can confirm how many downloads have occurred this month and how many actual replacements have been produced. And also if there is, in the future, some flexibility of the criteria of access to the bag in extraordinary circumstances as we have experienced in these last weeks. But focusing already on the object of this inquiry, as I said, a few weeks from now we will have pre-registrations and, seeing as this process has gone on in the case of formary cycles in the past years, I would like to remind you that the course 2020-21 was twelve thousand students who were left out of the system, who were not assigned to it – this is what we know for an answer that gave us their own department– ; that the course passed was 26,000 in the first option that they were left out, that after an extraordinary process they ended up with a thousand people. So, well, in any case, it is obvious that Catalonia has a structural shortage of public offer, but there is also a lack of prospecting for training needs and also of offering planning. And we want to ask him, counselor, in order to avoid repeating problems like the ones we have seen before, if they have done their dues and, therefore, if they have commissioned a report, if they already have a map of training needs in the territory, if they have commissioned it from their Director General, if it has been done by the Professional Training and Qualification Agency. And we ask because we know that they have not even consulted the territorial councils of the professional formation that exist, that they are very consolidated to the territory, as is the case of Granollers, of Mataró, of Terrassa, among many others. And of course, they haven't been consulted, after an episode of improvisation, of running away from the fact that it's not good for the whole system, but, especially, it's not for the students and not for the own Catalan production model. And we have to ask you if you have studied the real training needs, if you have spoken to economic and social agents, and if you have done so in the framework of the governing committee we would like to know the prediction that you are doing for the very 22-23 course. I think we have a right to know the scenario in which they are working, because if they have not done this job, then planning will shine again for their absence, and the only one they will do in the best of cases is to try to place the maximum number of groups there where they can, to give an answer to a demand in the margins of sectoral needs, without being able to work well the professional guidance service to the compulsory secondary or the mark of occupational training. And that's not having a quality professional training model. And, in fact, we are convinced that the option cannot be – as it will probably be, we hope not – to encourage training at a distance, when you yourself have recognised that the presence of the presence of the educational and formatting centres is removed from the pandemic, above all in the middle-grade cycles, where you have abandonment taxes that exceed forty per cent; with a type of training that must be eminently practical, with young and underage people, that is not for whom the Obert Institute of Catalonia was conceived; with highly elevated student ratios also in comparison with other indigenous communities, and that, a registered copy, neither after being able to examine itself in terms of service, but also with respect to its department that would not be perfect. In other words, counselor, professional training does not deserve this contempt or this precariousness. And another solution cannot be to anchor or concentrate more students in late age groups in those centres that already have facilities or continue to increase rates against the general logic and common sense. And we have already warned: obviously, we would agree, as we asked in your day, to guarantee the educational continuity to the middle degree from ESO, because the middle degree already represents the beginning of a professional career, but also to guarantee the continuity between the middle degree and the higher degree, because if we do not again harm the system of professional training, and precisely we want a quality system throughout life, which is certainly the driving force behind the Spanish Government in the new law on the organization and integration of vocational training. Therefore, I would like to know, counselor, whether I can explain or comment on your reply to how many new vocational training centres we will have in our course with respect to this past, whose training families, with what criteria have been determined and will be, and therefore how many new places we are talking about, knowing, therefore, how many potential students were left at the door, in Barcelona, l'Hospitalet, in Rubí, in Badalona, in Terrassa, to mention some of the flagrant cases, or if this is what will go on the march. And, therefore, we ask you to take advantage of the weeks that remain, therefore, to work well. You yourself said that this would be the legislature of vocational training, and you feel it, but for now you feel it because of the mismanagement, the lack of planning, the lack of sufficient resources in the assumption of this year and because the warmest seems to be in the water. On the other hand, the coming course will be the first one you have announced, thanks also to the resources coming from the Spanish Government, the gratuity of the P2. But the point is that the ministry that has the object of financing is to promote the creation of nine places of public school in Bressol to promote, precisely, universalization, to promote access to this educational stage of the group of children knowing how they know their positive impact in equity, in the success of subsequent education, and, therefore, to finance reform, rehabilitation, the new construction of equipment or the operating expenses of new places. But for what you, therefore, have done so until now, or have announced, is for the freeness of the places that already exist. These more than 50_million euros that will come from the Spanish government would theoretically have to be used to create nine public places from zero to three years. And, therefore, I have to ask you how many new public places you have planned to create your department in front of your own 2022-23 course in Catalonia; that for one thing. And from the other, counselor, with a view to the most likely increase in the demand for families, because, in fact, therefore, each course there is a mass of families that, especially in metropolitan cities, therefore, are left without being able to access the schools in Bressol, and, therefore, it is to be expected that with an announcement of gratuitousness the situation is still worse, and, therefore, what is needed to give head to the demand for schooling in Bressol, taking into account that it has exclusive competence, if it does not create new places, and, therefore, what criteria of baremacia will serve. What are you going to do there where a lot of families are out of the system? Especially because there will be more difference than ever between public schools, free, and deprived of social initiative. And, therefore, we would like to know, too, whether it will subsidize children's homes deprived of social initiative to advance or guarantee the free schooling of all children of two years, or if it will not. And we have to say that here we are very concerned about which way, therefore, a model that worked years ago has been unilaterally broken, and we ask you to take advantage of the resources that will come from the Spanish Government to create new structural places, because without universalization, counselor, gratuity will not exist for everyone. And, on the other hand, and lastly in this first round, we have to say that three years ago almost from the signing of the pact against pushed segregation, for the Syndicate and for the own Department of Education, and the Bofill Foundation issued a report a few months ago that school segregation levels were very high, that they were not better. He said, literally, that "the Administration makes segregation easier with the assignment of vulnerable students to eighty-three per cent of the centers that are already secreted, and that, in fact, today there were twenty ghetto centers more, today, to Catalonia than six years ago; that is to say, that we are worse and all that we have and that is not enough. That's what the Bofill Foundation said, let's not say it. And, therefore, we ask you, counselor, what can you tell us about this? Do you think the policy that is driving your department is helping to reduce segregation? Do you think removing resources from maximum and high-complexity centers like you did this year, with pre-pandemic data, is that a good measure? Do you think there's been a mistake in your department? And if that's the way it is, then, if you're thinking of rectifying yourself to the next class. If you think that keeping relationships between public and concerted in the same educational area, as is the case today, contributes to a more equitable distribution of the student. We want to ask him where the concert decree is. Or if you think that the fact of not providing sufficient resources to the school agreed to attend students with specific educational support needs helps them to continue to be allies of this pact or not. Or what about your professional training policy, right? Who can go to a private center; who can't go to the open institute, or to a different cycle than he would want. And I'll say it more: if it helps to reduce segregation, it helps to keep the six hour only at the concert and, therefore, not to recover it to the public, not so alone in that more complex, and, therefore, to allow inequalities between educational centers that already widen for many years. So we don't talk about the waiter, do we? We have a fee, a risk of poverty from infants above thirty-three per cent, and, in change, therefore, do not recover the serving of fooder to secondary school. In short, Councillor, I hope that in your answer I can clarify a great many of these questions which we have raised on behalf of my group in this House, which contain the concerns of the educational community, and, in any case, I will leave behind other important questions which we seem to have to deal with. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.29.0	Then, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.30.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Niubó, as you always do, you have a lot of fears. Jo, I'm glad you're so afraid. I will try to answer, with the two minutes I have, the maximum number of times, concerns and better things that you pointed out and that you laid down and that we are obviously working from the Department of Education. I went to give thanks to the educational community, with an on-going _sisena that has strained society and obviously has strained our schools. What we've done, since the Education Department, is... exceptional measures before an exceptional situation, and this has involved us criteria for coverage of all short-term falls and appointments every day. We have effectively named – effectively – dissit_thousand teachers and teachers at public school, and more than five thousand at the concerted school. The four-thousand you're referring to is from the past course. So, this year, from the holiday of Nadal, in the same period that it was four_thousand have been dissit_thousand to the public school– effective–, and more than five_thousand to the concertada. And, obviously, it's not true, I don't know where they're taking it, it's not true, and when someone says something that's not true, we have to tell them, it hasn't covered 50 percent of the downloads: it's not true. We make the names of all the basses, all the short-lived basses. We proposed..., made the nomination proposal. Most of them were accepted, in a high percentage they were accepted; when they were not accepted, they passed by the next day, because whoever is in the bag is not obliged to accept that drop, that cover, and therefore they passed by the next day and are covered by the next day; therefore, they are not answerable to what has happened. Let's see. I try to organize myself to try to say the most things in a short time, but now I can also hear. I believe that in view of 2022-23 this government – I said the first day, at the first appearances we made – we have proposed to make an ambitious transformation of the Catalan education system. And we will; we will make this ambitious transformation of the Catalan education system. And this, if I may, I identify: gratuity, you referred to it..., gratuity for the schooling of the infantile two; reduction of ration to childile three, from twenty-five to twenty; the deployment of the decree of admission in the framework of the pact against segregation, and the bet for professional training. Therefore, we propose to make this transformation, and we begin with the gratuitousness of schooling for families to children from public schools, to municipal schools. Thanks to this government's assumptions, €90 million will make this free of charge for zero-child families possible. And, moreover, it is obvious, because what we do is free, and for the time being we have to go here, but for the time being we do not make it universal, because we have to offer more places..., what we do is that children who are not of public title, who do not like to say 'private', who are not of public title, have much more resources than they have so far. He's had the ability, and I'd say the whole thing, to try to criticize a measure of child-freeness that's never been done in history. It's just that sometimes we have to position ourselves: a paradigm shift like the free schooling of the infantile two, which has never happened to history, you have the feeling of trying to criticize it. It's just that there's a moment up there that doesn't work, there's a moment up there that doesn't work. What we're doing is removing an economic barrier to access to child education, and that's not just from the point of view of education, but it is, and very much so, because of the social repercussions it has; it's a first line feminist policy. And respect this gratuitousness, we'll do it at the side of the joints. In the last few weeks, I had the opportunity to talk to the different parts involved, the municipal representatives, and very much so we would explain and land the detail of this measure in front of the assemblies and in front of the Bressol schools that are not public. We believe in the zero-three stage – we believe in the zero-three stage –; we were..., we arrived in 2018 and brought in, 2019, seven years without funding for zero-three gatherings. We've recovered this funding and now we're going further, and we're financing together the schooling of the families of the two children. Bet for rural schools; very important for us. We have passed... – country policy, territory policy, rural policy... –, we have passed from contributions of thirty_ thousand euros to contributions of five_ thousand euros. And you said, "What will you do to create new seats? So the creation of places depends on the gatherings and, therefore, we do what we do..., and unfortunately they are European sources that arrive through ministry, because if we arrive directly to each other we would have done the work, but, as they arrive through ministry, we have not just arrived at the information, we have not just arrived at the concretion..., so what we do is, we get all the information from the ministry, we will pass it to the gatherings. The assemblies that you create with the help of this European foundation, we, the Government of the country..., will finance them both with the contribution that we have agreed since 2019 as with the contribution to the free schooling of the two children. All public places created, new or existing, we will finance them from the Government of the country. Ugly reference also to racquet... Theme racquet: racquet came to child three the next course. Measure, I insist, too, that the story had never been made; we are ahead of paradigm changes and ahead of ambitious transformations. Admissions decree; you meant a little bit. We will deploy this course, many of the areas covered in the admission decree, and what we will do is... – very important, methodology, very important –: we must identify the student before he enters the education system, because, if not, we will remain segregating. Once we identify the student, before we enter the education system, with socioeconomically disadvantaged needs, what we do, depending on the student we have at each bar, at each city, at each village..., we make a reserve of places, as well, to the public as to the concertate, and we make a balanced distribution of the student. And that's attacking school segregation. And, therefore, all this school... Barcelona has a plan of shock against segregation, three or four years ago, which works very well. All this student that we identify and that goes up to publicly funded educational centres, with the same reserve for public centres and for concerted centres, will arrive, for the first time in history, also with the economic resources to have all the schooling, food grants, all the complementary activities, all financed, so that there is no economic barrier at the time of entering a school, already public or already concerted. And that's what we're going to do next, not even if it's ever been done. Then there are the admissions decrees that, in any case, as I want to talk about FP, I will explain it more extensively another day, if I may; the theme of the municipal school offices and the more part of the schedule. We're talking about vocational training. You see, vocational training..., the past year was a country success, because we had many requests, and that is a country success. What we have to do..., we have to be able to manage this success of country that is the increase of demands of professional formation. I recognize him, I've always done it, I recognize him. Last year, once we had an ordinary procedure, then we took decisions with an extraordinary procedure to correct some shortcomings. I say, last year we didn't do well, we have room for better; and as long as I have, I have always said so. And, therefore, what we do is, during these months, from the past course, until I start enrolling and then..., what we've done is do the dues, and this course the professional training will find us prepared. We will do..., very important, you also said it as before..., you said "we agree – we agree – we agree –: never – ever – we have guaranteed, the Catalan education system, place of the ESO's fourth-grade studentship at the middle-grade, never, and this coming course we will guarantee. The entire ESO quarter-student will be guaranteed place with medium-grade format cycles in the professional field you request. And that never happened, and it's very important, because we have to guarantee this educational continuity. And to do that, we'll do it in different phases. To do so, we have modified the entire pre-registration calendar, and we will do so in different phases: a first phase will only be for ESO and PFI quarter students and a second phase will be for other students. We'll move the process forward, we'll do it in April for ESO's fourth-grader and the junior-grader that doesn't come... that doesn't continue. On the margin, other aspects very high of better. Analysis of the needs of the territory; you also referred to it. I understand that Granollers's local planning table has met, because I read it... I know they have met. It seems to me that you said Granollers, and no other territories, but Granollers is sure that they have gathered there. And, therefore, what we are doing is planning the educational offer with the Professional Training Agency, with the Department of Enterprise and Work, and, very important, for the first time also, these reports and prospective analysis of who are the needs of the labour market, because it is very important that vocational training has the maximum possible job placement. And, therefore, the offer has to be adapted to the world of work. And that too... we've structured and systematized this collection of information, and it wasn't done until now. And then, if I may, for what it does to vocational training, it is very important to keep moving forward in the orientation, in the vocational orientation, that we have also found ourselves with a lot of margin of improvement in the whole field of education, but above all also in the vocational training; orientation because the group student..., of middle-grade format cycles, continues to the system. Skills accreditation; very important skills accreditation. Twenty thousand accreditations have been made in two years. What we're doing now is twenty thousand accreditations every year. And that also implies a change of look at these certificates of professionalism. Integrated vocational training centres. You were asking me about the concrete offer. The concrete offer will be presented on our own days, because we are working on it and will present it before the pre-registration process. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.32.0	Thanks, counselor, for the answers. He's left many, hasn't he? Now I'll remember, because that'll give you new opportunities. We had, in professional formation, you said that you have done the dues, but we still don't know, so, if there was this study of training needs. You, for example, talked about Granollers, which is a case I know well enough because I've been there, well, it's been a long time. And the governor told me that, in fact, they have made a study, made it together, of all the training needs of the territory, that they have participated in it and invited the representatives of the department, and that when they went to meet with the department in this joint committee representing the department, that they were part of their group and that they had in this case before, they told them that very bad news, but that they would do what they had already planned to do. Therefore, this is not planning or consulting the territories. [[Some applause.]] So I'd like to know where this study is, a study by the board of directors. Yeah, because we understand it's not supposed to be a secret. I mean, they need to know more or less, so what planning they're gonna do. And he didn't tell me how many centers we'd have in our own professional training course and, therefore, how many new places, because we understand that advancing pre-registration isn't planning the school course. And, therefore, we agree with ensuring the continuity of ESO with those who want to make form cycles, it seems very positive to us, but we try..., we also have to guarantee the continuity of medium degree already in the higher degree, because it is because, if not, we would be truncating the professional formation. For what he does to zero-three, we were here, here you, if I didn't get it wrong, say that places, nine places, have to create the joints and that they will already finance them with the ministry's money. We were, I think that, if you have the exclusive skills, the first thing you've been good at is not breaking a model that's worked for eleven years. They broke the model of the thirds through the back door, with the accompanying law. And I agree very much and it seems to me that it is very positive to move forward in gratuity, but it must also move forward in universalization, creating new places, because, as I said, if we do not have universalization and therefore there are no new places, it is hard for everyone to benefit from this gratuity. And he was talking to her in the first segregation intervention, about the bad situation we have in this land, when we know that a child in an unfavorable situation, who goes to a segregated school, has the equivalent of two and a half years of schooling that the rest of the companies. And, therefore, I would also like to talk to you about the lack of resources or the impulses of your department for the best of your students' skills. Miri, I want to give you some data – which you surely know, because, in addition to being a counselor, you are the president of the Barcelona Education Consortium – about the index of not overcoming the tests of basic skills of a quarter of ESO in the city of Barcelona, the last ones we have. In English, they go back to all districts according to the previous course; in all districts without exception they go back. In Catalan, they do so to Gràcia and Nou Barris; in castle, to Sants-Montjuïc, the Corts and Sant Martí. In mathematics, go back to Sants-Montjuïc. And we understand that aging for better education is essential not only to guarantee and improve the quality of the system, but also for fairness. And it seems to us that we don't want this to be any less of a question. And we want to ask him how they approach the curriculum change, a change that before, therefore, you explained to the previous inquiry, that we have to say that we have known for the communication media, that they have made a participatory process, but to the party they left, that they engage the own school course. And we understand, sometimes, that I'd probably be much more likely to train the teachers, with a general curriculum direction that's vacant, right? , just like the Plurilingualism Subdirection. And you'll understand that this doesn't generate too much confidence. In short, counselor, we have to tell you that the government does not do much, that if it does not act now – and it is already late – then the proper course can be back to being the same and it is already too many years that we run a inertia that does not carry place. And we already know that a bike when it stops pedaling, so, look. And, therefore, we would ask him that he is put to work. And, if I may, I'd like to make a final reflection, because I have a little time. While the education photograph we understand is this – today we have talked about some of the problems, sure there are many more –, sometimes it gives us the feeling that we talk a lot – a few more than others – and we give a lot of headlines about language, right? , about what will be more fiscalizing the centers, about now the requirement of the C2 between the faculty. And I would ask you, please, for an effort to depoliticize, to build a social and political consensus around a law for language at school, with pedagogical criteria, putting the model up to date, and, therefore, to focus on what really concerns citizenship, where it needs school and less in these headlines and in this improvisation, which seems to us that it does not take place. We would like you to think about the importance of education for the city as a whole – you know it perfectly – but especially for those families that have less resources. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.33.0	Then, has the word, in the turn of the reply, the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.34.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Niubó, deputies, deputies... explained it before, explained it a little more extensively, huh? One of the principles..., one of the objectives at the time of defining vocational training planning is to give response to the needs of the labour market. And so here, what we've done these past few months is work to get an analysis of these needs of the territories and have this feedback to which you referred, above all this school and business relationship. We also worked listening and planning with the territories and dealt with the offer of vocational training to all local planning tables. So, we collect the information. The concrete case I disconnect; in any case, I'll find out. But we collect the information and then we take the decisions based on the information collected. Sometimes it went ahead and sometimes, so it's not possible, because of the reasons, because it can't do everything, because one thing has to be done after the other. And, therefore, I imagine that in these cases you have to inform yourself or should you inform yourself of what is the reason for which you did not go forward and see if it is scheduled or is likely to go forward. Maximum transparency always – we know each other a little; I never love information –, maximum transparency always. And, therefore, the concrete data of professional training is that I can't present them today, because we will present from now on the offer and therefore we have just adjusted some locks. And now I wouldn't like to give a piece of information that's not complete. Therefore, there will be an increase in the offer of vocational training. There will be an increase in comprehensive vocational training centres. We are moving forward in such a way as to make it easier for families, above all – very important – through attention..., with a global attention of all the offer of vocational training, both the regulated one, as much as the one produced at the Institute, as the Occupational one and the one accompanying it, and all this is articulated with the Department of Enterprise and Work. After you refer to the nine places of zero-three. I've already challenged him before, haven't I? But I'm going back to saying, the zero-three job creation offer is municipal. Who has the competence to offer zero-three seats are the joints. We have 927 Bressol and municipal kindergarten schools, 927, 42 of the Department of Education and 747 that are not public. And, therefore, all the places that the assemblies believe..., there will be this European foundation that goes up through the ministry, which, I say to him, badly up through the ministry, because we have not just come out, to have the information that we need, and this European foundation, if these places are created together, we, as the government..., and had never been done in history – I do not know what he told me about the subject of the third, had never been done in history – we will finance what he was financing until the year 2011-12, and that we have returned to recovering the year 2019-20, and, moreover, this policy of gratuitousness for the schooling of the families of the two children, which has gradually reached the end. I thought you... you surprised me today, didn't you? Congresswoman Niubó, because she's not right for you to be so little informed. [[remorse of the voice]] , and today I was surprised, because the Directorate General of Curriculum... – but if I say it with affection, eh? ; I have a lot of love for Esther – the Directorate General of Curriculum..., the day it ceased, the same day the new Director General of Curriculum was appointed. Therefore, there was no vacancy between one day and another. And then... it's over, huh? And that's what we agree on. It is that we agree with many fears; in this we also agree. Language theme. Maximum political consensus, and so much so, social, and, above all – above all – and I know that we share this, pedagogically, above all pedagogically. And we know that, pedagogically, the learning of languages is not of percentages, it is of pedagogy. I, therefore, political, social and pedagogical consensus. And then I was talking to him about the intervention of the transformative ambition of the Catalan education system. And it is clear and indestribable that this transformation of the Catalan education system was accompanied by equity, equality of opportunity and attention to the most vulnerable. And with this direction, educational transformation and fairness, we'll keep moving and working. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.35.0	Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the government about the Winter Olympic Games, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. [[Interview with the Government on the Winter Olympic Games]] [[300-00107/13]] You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry to Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.36.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Consellera Vilagrà. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, he will advise, as you know, our parliamentary group, like other Members of this House, in fact, like other social organisations, like different scientists from different camps, sportsmen and a wide-ranging etcetera, so we have serious doubts about his Winter Olympics project, especially because we don't know the project in detail. Well, at the length of my intervention, I will try to unravel the main arguments for which we do not see clear this project, but above all the motivation of our inquiry is that you, therefore, can explain in your parliamentary office all or some of the doubts that we have, as the most responsible you are for this project in the Government of the Generality. Especially that, so, we don't know, because we think that one of the things missing in this project is transparency, right? Just's, it's a project that starts more than two years ago, with Mayor Hereu, and that today, when we are, in fact, a few months from the celebration of a consultation with the High Pyrenees and the Aran, so we still don't know most of the details, do we? : which towns and cities will be their own or their own, where they think they will dispute the different tests, where the jumps will be made, where the bobs will be made, which are the new equipments that will be built and where they will be built; which infrastructures, how much will it cost, where the money will be taken out, what will be the environmental impact, what will be the economic impact, what will be the social impact... They are elements that we believe are basic in order to be able to formulate a consultation to the territory. We think there's a lot of questions that haven't been clarified yet. And they are important questions for these parliamentary groups, but above all for the people of the affected territory. Because what we've known so far through the press, so we think that few answers give to territories with greater depopulation, such as the two Pallars, right? And we ask him what concrete benefits the Winter Olympics will bring to a region like the Pallars Sobirá, which is one of the eternal oblivious comarques of our country; where, of course, there are five ski resorts, but it seems that his project, therefore, is leaving the band. And ask me to clarify if that's the way it is. But well, in any case, right? I hope, therefore, that in your reply you will clarify all these questions, so that I put some of the arguments for which we believe, therefore, that this is not a good idea. As I said, there are many, many arguments. I will try to group them into five large scales: the territorial, the environmental, the sport, the socioeconomic and the participation. I want to start with what's most important to me, which is territorial. And the question is which model of territorial development is to answer this project, which is a great event, and if you really believe that this is the answer that Pirinaeus needs to address its current problems, its challenges, its needs for the future; if this is the country project for southern Catalonia of which the president spoke to us in his investiture. Is that really what we want for Catalonia? Look, I think you have a problem, and it's that your transformation report is like a castle of smile when you put on the table concrete projects for this legislature, country projects like the Hard Rock, like the Olympic Games or the airport. And, Counselor, I think the inconsistency, in this sense, is enormous, and it's that you see it all, and then, or change the report or change the plans of the legislature, but don't mess with us more than they want to do one thing and actually make it another. Why do they want to sell us that the Winter Olympic Games will be a catalyst for territorial development for the Pyrenees, but who are the main problems for you and who is to be faced by a future like the High Pyrenees and the Aran? Look, I'm taking some data and I see, for example, that the per capita income of this lifetime is forty-two per cent lower than the average income of Catalonia. Or I see that their five communities are among the Catalan communities that the most people have lost in the last two years. I see how many people are left without school, without bank offices, without pharmacies, without mail... I see, and I see speaking to their people, that there is a brutal problem of access to housing in these areas, where there has been a gentrification phenomenon linked to second residences and tourism. And I also see that these very young people who can't access housing have huge problems to study because they have to move and they don't have the support, so that they can study outside their territory. Or I also see that these young people, therefore, find themselves in highly precarious jobs at the conjunction of the Pyrenees. And I also see the jobs tied up, didn't I? , these jobs linked to the tourism sector, which are precarious jobs of time, but also the difficulties of the primary sector, which each time is disappearing more, or the industry does not exist, practically do not exist in these territories. Therefore, a set of problems of economic size, of social size, and that we, therefore, see is that this initiative does not give an answer. Because, of course, I don't know if you know – I guess so, don't I? – that the Pallars, that to the Aran, that to the Cerdanya, that to the Ripollès..., from dilluns to divenders also lives people. And if we really want a country with territorial equity, which is that people can live in this territory, and that is why they can live there, that they can work there, that you can serve there, that you can transport there, that you have access to the pool of services that all the other territories have access to it. Therefore, we need to guarantee these services, we need to guarantee transport infrastructure, we need to guarantee digital infrastructure. And look, it's not just that we don't see how the Olympic Games solve all these problems – that, in fact, it's obvious that they won't solve them – but that our impression is that with the Olympic Games what we do is to dig deeper into the model that brought us to this situation; it's to say, to dig deeper into the model of tourism monoculture, to dig deeper into the model of job insecurity, to dig deeper into the model that generates gentrification in these territories. So, what we're doing is we're going deeper into everything that's brought us to this situation. As I said, the available housing, the servers, the optical fiber, the infrastructures that the Pirinaeus needs, does not need them by 2030, needs them already. Therefore, we cannot rely on a great event of the year 2030 to solve, to want to solve the problems of the Pyrenees, and therefore what we need is a new bet, a different bet, for territorial development in this territory. Let me focus now on an area that for me is the most inverse of the proposal, which is the environmental area. And that's what I have to say again: with one hand you talk about a great green transformation and with the other you push a project that doesn't just seem to ignore the climate change scenario that we're living in, but it's obviously antagonistic with this reality. Clearly, I don't know if you believe that all the scientists and scientists that this week will present a manifesto with data and empirical projections that show that doing the Olympic Games in Pirinius 2030 is a disarray... I don't know if they think they're all wrong, I don't know if this government's knowledge is about knowing this scientist, if they don't want to listen to them or, worse still, if the ones they're listening to are fully aware of the reality and everything and that's what they're pulling for right so that maybe there's some higher interest than that asks. Because the data, counsel, is blunt. We know that the temperature will have increased between two and four degrees by 2050. We know that the share of the snow will rise. We know that the conditions for keeping the snow on the tracks will be more complicated every time and every time we have less days of the year in which we can do it. We know that we're going to have even longer and more serious episodes, and to show this same year, but also the past year and also the previous year, in which we haven't had each other. We know that between forty_per_cent and eighty_per_cent of the ski resorts on this date will be unviable, not even with artificial snow. Clearly, with all these hand-to-hand facts, we know, that they're empirical scientific projections, that they don't say anything to them? That they don't question them? And I'm telling you, I'm telling the government, but I'm also saying it to the Esquerra, the Junts for Catalonia and the Socialist Party, but especially to the Esquerra, because Junts for Catalonia and the Socialist Party had already hoped for it, but we're surprised that Esquerra Republican does not or is not being questioned about this reality. And it's that these scientific projections are not just that the viability of Olympic Games in the Pyrenees by 2030 is more than questionable, it's not only that to make these Games an environmental impact produced by the production of artificial snow, water consumption, the energy consumption that is needed to produce this artificial snow, but the problem is not of the fifteen days that the Games will be held, the problem is of the strategy that you are following, that you are following a strategy of territorial development for the Pyrenees based..., by the way, fifteen years old, based on the snow, when we are in a climate-emergency context. And that's what he didn't feel: designing a territorial development strategy for a territory like the Pyrenees in a climate-emergency context based on a phenomenon, the snow, which we know in 30 years' time, will not exist. And this brings me to the last block, or to the third block – and in the second they come back, in any case, I will go deeper into other blocks – which is the socio-economic one, which is who benefits from this great event as you are setting up, five actors celebrating and claiming these Olympic Games. So, fix's, they're the same actors that claim, for example, the expansion of the airport, the same actors. Because the Olympic Games are not a territorial development bet, they are a bet to circulate capital, they are a bet, therefore, because capital can go from one space to another, and therefore continue to benefit certain negotiations; they are not a bet that benefits the joint territory, they are not a bet that redistributes wealth, but they are a bet for a tourist monoculture that is pa for today and wins for tomorrow. For us, this is not the economic model that Pirinaeus needs. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish the president – because it's a model that doesn't revert to the conjunction of the population of this territory, because it doesn't diversify the economic activity and because it doesn't help to crowd the population to the territory. And in the next step, in any case, I will delve into some other arguments of respect. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.37.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, you have the word, for the answer, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.38.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... well, MP Parés, anyway, whether it's a bet, or not, positive will be decided by the people of the territory, and that's why we did this process. We are fully aware from the government that the Olympic Winter Games candidacy project is a complex theme, full of derivatives, interests, actors who interact. But precisely because for us to rule is this, it is to take on complex issues and address them, we want to work very well on this candidacy; to build, therefore, a sustainable, low-to-high, participatory, collaborative candidacy. And this is a great opportunity for the Pyrenees. Maybe today I won't have all the time to explain all the questions he has to me, let's just say, posed on the table. In fact, my predisposition is to explain it calmly, and various parliamentary groups have called for my appearance, and so we can debate this issue in committee. But in any case, obviously, what we will do is to listen to the territory in this organization of a consultation, but I want you to know that in the past weeks, in fact, we have intensified our efforts to talk, so, with all the actors: mayors, territories, different people meant and also, obviously, the most critical voices, which we will obviously listen to. But before we get into the matter and into the background of the question, let's just say that we are where we are because we have a majority of Parliament that has urged us to do this consultation and that's what we're doing. Therefore, the parliamentary mandate we will complete and collect this glove. And we decide to lead it by doing just one participatory process, respecting the territory, because there are no speculative interests, because giving the view to the territory seems to us that they better than anyone else, so obviously they will tell us what is their best outcome; to ensure that we do not do anything that I do not have, let us say it, continue in the future with equipment that is being used, therefore, to continue the economic activity of development of the territory. And we also do it from Catalonia because we are a foreign country and that seems to me that no one can deny it. In fact, every week, each week's head is moving between two and three million people in sports or activity activities, let's say, physical. And, in this sense, we have given many, let's say, many occasions, it has been seen that Barcelona and Catalonia is a country that can organize important sporting events and this candidacy of Winter Olympics Pirineus-Barcelona 2030 can also be an opportunity to put another shot at the international map, but also allow me..., let me say, the Catalan political map. Because as we had never talked about Pirinaeus before, I think it is a good thing that we take this opportunity to talk about their needs, interests, desires. And it's obvious that it's also important because of this..., this debate can bring out a positive arrival for the Pirinian communities. And, in any case, a arrival that obviously has to be of territorial balance between the Pyrenees and the rest of Catalonia, in the terms that you yourself also pointed to me in matters of communication, of connectivity between the different communities of the Pyrenees and also with the country's conjunction. A arrival that must be sustainable, that balances the territory and that allows to put up with and reuse those resources that already exist. Now, I also want to say very clearly one thing, that this government does not link the future of the Pyrenees, obviously, nor the combination of the product model of this country to a concrete event and, in this case, to an Olympic game candidacy. We know we owe the Pirinaeus, there's games or there's no games. You know perfectly well. But what size do they have exactly these games? Because they are winter games, therefore, the magnitude is very different from what we wanted to live in Barcelona 92. And in any case, every weekend, as I said, or throughout the year, there are hundreds of sporting events that have much more participation than some Olympic games, that would be between four and five thousand sportsmen, ultimately depend on the disciplines that are coming to an end and if they expand with other disciplines of mountain races, for example. If I took him for 2019, prepandemia, we'd see that a fire like Food has 150,000 assistants, for example, or Mobile, more than a hundred_ thousand, or a Godo trophy of tennis, so some noranta_ thousand assistants or the Marató de Barcelona fifteen_ thousand registered people. And this very winter, the Pyrenees will have events such as the Freeride World Tour de Vaquèira, the Europe of Skiing in Muntanya, to Boí Taüll, which is going to end, the Beret ski pass with a thousand and two hundred sportsmen, this weekend, to put just a few examples. And I could go on and, finally, give us some thought if we can dispense with these events and, in any case, also what is, therefore, the environmental impact they have, which they also have. But if we want to, if we want to make them and we want to make them quality for the city of Barcelona, for the whole of the country and that all these events are sustainable and that the winnings are distributed, that they contribute to a tourism of quality, because we agree to diversify the economy, but we also agree that this country, at the moment, lives in an important way or a significant part of the country alive from the tourism and we are convinced that sport tourism can be one of these axes of development and, therefore, a tourism with the seal of sustainability and quality and that we are working together with the Department of Enterprise. We have also said so many times, and the president at the last session of control said so, and it is that if it is not possible to consolidate an Olympic candidacy, we will obviously continue to work for the economic diversification of the Pyrenees, for sustainable development, for fighting against depopulation in these communities. Therefore, what we want is to raise different questions. For example, and he pointed out: What actions have you planned so as not to depend economically on tourism and the snow in your own gods, fifteen years? So, we've calendared them in the framework of a 2030 strategy. Some of them have been explained in a document that we explain to the different institutions of the Pyrenees, in which we point out better in communications in these regions that, obviously, will favor a market and an internal mobility that will also make it easier not to depend so much on tourism and the snow; to finally get optical fiber to all the reasons, above and beyond all else; to draw up plans for economic diversification – and this is what we do with the agents of the territory–; to equip the Pyrenees, all the regions of the Pyrenees, of the infrastructures and equipment that may not depend solely on tourism. And you know we're about to address the ambition of sustainable mobility to mountain communities, as we talked about in the assumptions, in the negotiation of assumptions. It is obvious that one of the elements that will determine whether the candidacy goes ahead or not is the result of this consultation that we will make on the mark of the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran. As I said, it is a parliamentary mandate but it is also a conviction that I believe we share, that it is important to enhance citizen participation in co-government with the local world and to fold the way of building public policies; to lie down decisions to the territory and above all where things go, the principle of famous subsidiarity. The objective that we have set ourselves, therefore, from the beginning is to have a closer relationship with these territories at institutional level and, therefore, it is in this sense that all these neighbourhoods of the old will participate in this consultation, but obviously the rest of the communities of Pirinaeus, Prepirinaeus, Berguedà, Solsones and Ripollés with the regional councils and the corresponding capitals will have their veil represented in a participatory process. In fact, as I said, we have intensified territorial visits, we have explained very clearly where the technical work is. We don't have all the inconclusives out there, I'm sure. It is also true that, as you know perfectly well, it is not entirely up to the Government of the Generality, but in any case we will continue to work on these territorial sites. Moreover, you have commented and it is obvious that we are concerned about the issue of environmental impact and, especially, therefore, thinking about the temperatures that will come from here eight years or more. In this sense the IOC or the IOC, as I would say, is clear that these olympics must scrupulously complete the objectives of sustainable development. In this sense, it will not build a large sports infrastructure in the Pyrenees that after the Games does not have any use and I say this in a very clear way. So it's not going to be environmental beasty. For another band, we are currently working precisely with the IOC on the technical project of the possible candidacy, but there will also be a very thorough study, obviously, from a point of view of climate change and affectation in this eventual candidacy. Obviously, we all plant ourselves if we have to in the Pyrenees, but in any case, we will obviously work very rigorously on it. Also, because the efficient use of resources will warm up. We are talking about soil, water, energy, rational urban development and not expansion, overcoming seasonality, obviously. In fact, I give you an example, the urbanist plan of declassification of the non-urbanizable soils of the High Pyrenees is not a good example of this work together with the territory and the Government of the Generality. Obviously, we also look at how we will obviously be addressing the protection of protected species: the Pyrenean Langard, the White Lose, the Gallo; all of these elements are working on promoting and enhancing biodiversity in that space. In any case, beyond the land of sport, and I also end up, I want to explain to you that we are going to push for a cultural, social and environmental olympiade that will push back this need to fight against climate emergency, to push for action in this sense. Therefore, it is already advanced that environmental arrival is a matter clearly to enhance, to improve ecological connectivity, to improve natural habitats. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.39.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for some of the answers. I have to say he didn't answer any questions about the Olympic Games. For example, I'd like the Pallars people to know what impact they'll have on the Pallars these Olympic Games, whether or not they have planned any concrete reversal or whether we forget about them, too, from this region. Because, for all we know, we have the feeling that what will end up happening is that Cerdanya and Aran will end up with certain events and we will forget what the two Pallars are about. If he's not like that, he'll let us know. Also, what happens to the Ripollès, right? I'm not saying that, am I? , taking advantage to speak, you said: "We will make a consultation. We agree. We have defended and asked for a consultation and believe, moreover, that it is the citizenry of the Pyrenees that is to be pronounced at the territorial level, because it is the territory directly affected, more than it is obvious, therefore, that this is a project that goes beyond the Pyrenees, as the city that encapsulates the name of the candidacy is Barcelona. Now, of course, expel Bergedà, Solsonès and Ripollès from the consultation, we don't understand. And let's not just say it to ourselves, said the mayor of Berga, said the mayor of Ripoll, deputy Munell – he also said it and said it to the press. Therefore, I believe that everyone, and they too, need an explanation as to why these territories are excluded from this consultation. Listen, at Ripollès there are three ski resorts, obviously they will have an impact on the Olympic Games in Bergedà. So why? And, besides, you said, it's that we don't invent ourselves, it was you who at one point said that the consultation would be for the High Pirinum and the Aran and Ripollès, Bergedà and Solsonès. We don't understand why it's not done at last. And if that's not what it looks like, it's because what you want is to narrow down the territorial dimension of the consultation to the result that they did well. And that, therefore, those communities that may not vote which they like, so those do not let them vote. We'd like you to clarify that. Entering the sport field, which you also made reference to, and it's one of the other areas on which I wanted to focus. You say: "We are a country of sport, and it is true. It is true, too, that Catalonia has a tradition of skiing and mountain sports since more than a hundred years ago, but it is also true that since the Government of the Generality, in our view, this tradition and these disciplines have not recovered sufficiently. Or at least I don't think he was like that. And, of course, when it's been so long without supporting certain sports – and I don't say in the field of elitist, but in basic sports, I say in white school sports, for example, in the territories of Pirinaeus, which has also been abandoned at certain times – so it's strange to want to organise some winter Olympic games when they haven't been referred to. And so good, right? I am wrong, but the reality is that today we have only sent seven Catalan sportsmen to the Olympic Games in Beijing, which until now no Catalan sportsman has held a medal. And, listen, so many weeks later we can celebrate a medal of the Queralt Castellet or Quim Salarich, especially from Quim Salarich, which is from my region. And so much in our own Olympic Games we have more sportsmen too, so, because, as you said, mountain skiing will be recognized. And so this is also an area where we have Catalan and Catalan athletes, huh? Therefore, in this sense, we do believe that there is a wider recovery in the world of sport so that we can also launch an initiative like this. In any case and for what it does in the area of the project and the territorial model, we insist, it is not the way to develop. Everything you've been commenting on what the territory needs, what does the Pyrenees need? It's just that the answer isn't that. We can share the questions, we can share the needs so that the people of Pirinaeus are more impoverished than the rest of Catalonia, so that the people leaving Pirinaeus, why they are depopulating, why it costs so much to get to Pirinaeus, why there is not enough economic diversity, so, in a post-pandemic context we are not able to offer jobs to Pirinaeus because we do not have optical fiber. In all this we can share the questions, but what we are telling you is that the answer to all these questions is not to organize a great event in 2030. First, because we have an immediate need for these answers to be needed already, because it is only fair that the investments that the Pyrenees lack in infrastructures, in optical fiber, in access to services arrive already and do not arrive depend on Olympic games. Because, in addition, it's a chanting mechanism to link Olympic Games to all those needs that Pirinaeus has. And, above all, because we need answers from another side. That is to say, what we need in Pirinius are no more hotels, what we need is not more housing, what we need is access to housing. So what we need to avoid is a phenomenon that is happening and that is the hardest phenomenon that I think you have in the Pyrenees now, which is access to housing. And it's produced by gentrification. And gentrification is linked to tourism and second residences. So, how do we approach this reality? How do they diversify the economy in Pirineu? How do we drive, too, the primary sector? The secondary sector? And we have proposals, some of which we have given to the assumptions with you, such as, for example, what could be, therefore, a new tax on foods that, quite rightly, reverted to some activities. And we need to think about other mechanisms for redistributing funding at the territorial level to the most disadvantaged territories. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.41.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, in the turn of reply, the adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.42.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Well, deputy, I'm back to say, the one that the Pyrenees needs will decide the Pyrenees; let them never tell us more that we decided it from Barcelona, that we decided it from Vic, that we decided it from Manresa or from my people. I am aware that you are here to explain your political position, but it would also be a good idea for you to include some of the things that I have said to you: the government, I can assure you that your concern with depopulation, climate emergency..., everything that you have commented to me. In fact, they are concerns we share and, moreover, we are talking about the Olympic Games being rethought under the most decisive decade for the SDG. Therefore, I believe that we are all aware of the need to change, and I believe that the IOC is also very conscious. And apart from completing Agenda 2020, the first of this International Olympic Committee, it is essential to organise this candidacy, so, as I said, from low to high, in a sustainable way. And, therefore, that's what we're doing. Moreover, I offer myself from here to work on rapeseed rape with you, with your group, to ensure that this candidacy does not only generate a negative impact, as you said, but also generates this positive arrival that I believe all folds can be iron, to create. I insist on a few things I said. In fact, we are fulfilling a parliamentary mandate of this Parliament, in which already in the previous parliamentary term we 'place to promote a consultation between the assembly of the citizens of the Pyrenees on the Olympic Games of Winter, because I can vote, give opinions, proposals, express needs, expectations, promote a public debate, open, transparent, that exposes all the environmental, economic, territorial information necessary, together with the local authorities affected: assemblies, councils... So, that's exactly what we're doing now. And we're doing it with all the old-fashioned businesses, but we're doing it with Bergedà, the Ripollès, the Solsonès. In fact, as I said, I myself have seen myself with some of the mayors and I will continue to do so, and so, as well, regional councils and councillors' councils, together with the entire team of Presidency, of Esports, but also with the Vice-President, who we share... finally, tasks in this approach to the candidacy. The Parliament also approved, through a resolution on transparency and participation, which the Government had to submit, therefore, the information of all the meetings and the agreements that are due to come to an end. And, therefore, we will do it in time and form, and, in fact, we do it every time. And, in any case, that we would incorporate into the decision making on the project participatory mechanisms that include, so, this consultation before the officialization, and that's what we're doing. That's exactly why we're going with this calendar on the table and we're laying down, so... well, we're going to have this consultation around the end of spring. But what's the arrival that we want me to stay? We want these Olympic Games to actually be a transformational project of the territorial, economic and social model; it must help us to predict which infrastructures we need in the future; it must help us, it must not mean that it is absolutely decisive in all. We must, of course, prioritise the efficient use of natural resources, as I said before, huh? , sun, water and energy. We must ensure that this process is absolutely respectful of the needs of the territory, that it runs away from speculative interests, that it ensures that we do not have an impact on the struggle we are making against climate change, and, in any case, define a strategy shared with the territory. I would say that what we have to do is maximize the return, this arrival of the project on some important issues such as social, environmental and economic utility; make some investments that persist over time, that are effective in the use of resources and neutral in emissions of the winter effect. In any case, I propose to you this challenge, Member, I propose to you that we commit ourselves to ensuring that we go on this line, on this good line of work, that we work together. I would like to see you also committed to helping the government in this regard, because we know your expertise, your ability to make positive and constructive proposals. And, therefore, of course, with a shared job we can incorporate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.43.0	Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the neutrality of public institutions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Question to the Government on the neutrality of public institutions]] [[300-00110/13]] It has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. We present this inquiry into the breach of the duty of neutrality in the public administration of Catalonia in general. And we have several examples. I'm glad that Mrs. Anna Erra, Mayor of Vic, is here today because she's going to take some of my intervention. The allegations signed electronically by Mrs Anna Erra as proof of the extent to which we have come to breach the duty of neutrality of the Catalan institutions: she claims before the court that Ciutadans could not put a tent on Vic's floor « with the objective of avoiding moments of crispacia, tension and confrontations to Vic's public street. He refused to put the information stop of a party that is clearly opposed to the linguistic immersion system and that plays with the majority public opinion in the city. How can we not... [[some applause]] , as we will not have this serious democratic deficit when instead of hiding our heads a little and avoiding the issue, as the President of the Generalitat did when he alluded to the issue of Vic, who did not dare to support Mrs Anna Erra ; what a serious defect in the Catalan democracy that you applaud what implies the exclusion of freedom of expression and the exercise of the fundamental right of political participation in a population alluding to that population thinking mostly against what the mayor defends in Vic. How unfortunate it is that we are told that it can create tension and upset that someone peacefully exposes his ideas! Who is going to generate attention, those who are going to burst the tents and throw away the brochures and insult those who legitimately express their opinion? Look, anti-democratic gentlemen, look, gentlemen, that there are municipalities in Cuba that would not have dared to put this in writing – there are municipalities that would not have dared. Look, we've won you in court for now, Mrs. Anna Erra, and we've won you again. And you know why? Do you know why we're going to win? Because, fortunately, we're not in your republic. We are not in the republic of Puigdemont or in which you would prepare us, in which we could not express our ideas. We are protected by the Spanish Constitution, which you have no shame. They're not ashamed. And we're covered by Article 9.3, 14, 103.1 and 133. And these, apart from talking about equality between citizens, huh? , because you seem to distinguish the world between wild beasts and Catalans of soca-rel... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And some can talk and the others can't. I think it's going that way, Mr. Supremacists. I think it's going that way. Please note, our Constitution is of 78, and the fifth ruling of the Constitutional Court, Judgment No. 5/1981 said: "In a political legal system based on pluralism, ideological freedom... – does it ring a bell? – "and religious of individuals, all public institutions must, in fact, be ideologically neutral. That's what our Constitutional Court said, when after the Constitution we left the night of the Franco dictatorship. But you have not been rooted in the concept of ideological freedom and political pluralism, and as you do not believe in it, there is another sentence, 163 of 2006, which speaks of the "preceptive neutrality of the public authorities in the exercise of fundamental rights, which does not tolerate controls on the message to be disseminated – Mrs Erra – "unless it violates the law itself. An opinion on the Language Immersion Act violates legality? And so..., and now, after commenting on this to Mrs Anna Erra, I turn to you, Mrs Vilagrà, to say to you: Is this okay with you? Would you agree, Mr. Cuevillas, that Catalan bar associations supported the right to decide? Our courts... objected to the courts and said that a public-law corporation does not have the right to freedom of expression and that it cannot represent all its colleagues by saying something that others may not agree with. Do you understand what the neutrality of professional corporations is? Well... it doesn't seem like it. We have also had Catalan universities that have been shamefully overturned their resolutions for violating the neutrality of public institutions and also supporting the postulates of ideology that you legitimately, with your parties, represent. You have to learn to distinguish between what you think, your right to freedom of expression, to freedom of thought as individuals and as political parties, and when you are part of a public institution, which you cannot dye with your ideology, to the institution itself. The Generalitat is not separatist, gentlemen of Junts per Cat and Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, I regret to inform you that democratic states and liberal democracies work this way. The Administration does not have the color of the political parties that at that time have the responsibility to make it work. That's why we have a widespread lack of neutrality in the administration. It affects the education system. It affects the use of the public buildings of the Generalitat and the municipalities, which are used as a partisan showcase with obvious lack of neutrality. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The interior councillor, the entrance, loops, « we are 3,300, « We are determined, we will win. Everything..., looks like the advertising board of the Republican Left Party or Junts per Catalunya, and it is the headquarters of the council of all. And look at Territori's, with his laces in the windows, like the one Mr Juvillà put on, who in the end disabled him, or those hanging Mr Torra, who was also disabled. Department of Enterprise i Treball : « Freedom and Democracy, yellow lace. Departament d'Afers Socials i Famílies : « Freedom, « Llibertat, with the shield of the average Generalitat, which I have marked in yellow, because what is more seen are the banners of « Llibertat political prisoners who, of course, how ashamed you are to follow with that monk. And it is also disappointing that there is a large part of the buildings of Catalan municipalities where the Spanish flag does not lie, because basically it is a contempt to the other part of the population that you undervalue and hide and that..., and that you do not want it to exist but that they exist, that are those Catalans who also feel Spanish and have the legal right to see their flag waving also in all municipal corporations. That's neutrality. The Catalan flag... the flags that the law provides for. That is the sign of neutrality, the rest are heated and caradour of politicians who start to ignore part of their population. Today we have asked..., you see, we have referred to the local power, and we have personified it in the sandals that Mrs Anna Erra says, that with these allegations I already tell you that you will lose the lawsuit, and you will lose it, for the same arguments that I am telling you here, that you... [[Funnel veils]] So it is clear that they do not know. We're talking about local power. We are talking about the executive power of the Generalitat, and we will also have to talk about the legislative power, the numbers that an institution such as the presidency of Parliament is forcing us to swallow. We already know that even when she was director of the Institut de les Lletres Catalanes, Mrs Borràs was impartial. It was not, it gave the contracts to whom it seemed to her, completely disregarding the legal rules. We already know that he gives and takes the floor in debates as he pleases and makes distinctions depending on who speaks. We already know that, well, he has been lying to the Members themselves and to their fellow religious on the Juvillà theme until the end. But we also know that she belongs to the Council of the Republic, which we believe is that..., that the President of the Parliament of Catalonia belongs to an imaginary entity in which..., she is monocolorist, she is caudillalist, for I would almost invite her to resign as President of the Parliament, that here we do have laws and rules and this is indeed a democracy, and not in those glue bodies that applaud the freedom of expression of the rest of the political parties. You will be there as a fish in the water, and not spoiling the prestige of an institution such as the Parliament of Catalonia. And now when you reply to me you will finish the intervention. Thank you, Mrs. Vilagrà. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.45.0	Then, the word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.46.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Well, Mr Carrizosa, the inquiry does to the Government, does not to a mayor, does not to the Presidency of the Parliament, does to the Government ( applause ), and in this sense, first of all, surprise me its inconsistency in this inquiry, when you go to talk about neutrality to public institutions, and the first one that does is to pose to us the Government, able to execute, to talk about facts that occurred in Parliament, for example, the legislative power, or in an assembly. In this sense, let him say that Montesquieu has valued his inquiry in terms of neutrality of public institutions and separation of powers, as at least, as an interference with others. In fact, I had prepared an answer, as I did not know what I would be talking about, talking about a theoretical debate, because, in any case, with the title of the inquiry, I thought that it would be, around the neutrality of the actions that we have to take by the public administrations, around the forms of good governance or, for example, the essential political direction that marks the direction of what the Government is doing, and therefore, obviously, this political direction cannot be neutral. In this sense, as the Statute recalls, the Government directs the Administration of the Generality, exercises the executive functions and the regulatory authority, according to this Status and the laws, and that the Administration of the Generality serves, must serve, objectively, the general interests. This is what the Government does, as the higher body that directs the Administration, and what the Administration does is to apply the legal order objectively, regardless of the subjective elements or much less the ideological ones. And, as a guarantee that this is the case, we have a range of internal mechanisms that guarantee it, such as legal advice; economic interventions; complaint channels, alerts; ways to make submissions, submit administrative remedies – all individuals can do so – as well as external mechanisms, such as the Greuges Syndicate or effective judicial protection. And in any case, the Government of the Generality works, moreover, to strengthen and increase the mechanisms already in place to guarantee the objectivity of the Administration. In the previous legislature, the Government continued to develop and deepen the policies of transparency, good governance, public integrity; in general, it also set aside the anti-corruption strategy, giving it an account here in Parliament. In the present legislature, on 22 September 2021, the objective of working for a just country, of good governance and a democratic referent to the world was first articulated. In particular, the plan of government is proposed to strengthen the good government, to advance towards an open government to create public value within and outside institutions and it is also proposed to deploy an efficient, professional and excellent administration, for the benefit of people. An important number of these measures are collected in these areas, and therefore the invitation to read and review them, and they are in line to strengthen the transparency and objectivity of the Administration. In order to highlight one important one, I will remind you of the Government's commitment to regulating a new model for the organisation of professional public management, based on the selection of positions based on merit, competence and suitability. This proposal, therefore, is also on the standard basis of 18 October 2021. And I take the department's commitment that I can also initiate the processing of the preliminary draft law ordering the public management system. Also with this aim, to count on the best selection system and with the most qualified staff possible, another initiative collected in this plan, such as the elaboration and the impulse of the draft Catalan public employment law, will be launched in 2022. And if you prefer not to talk so much about proposals or objectives but about implementations, I can also explain that the Government has reinforced the ethic of the high offices, of the staff to the administration service through already closed initiatives, as has been the adoption of the ethic code of the public service of Catalonia, adopted in agreement of government on 26 October, or the reform of the Advisory Committee on Public Ethics, created in 2016, so as to introduce from its composition the presence of professional experts to gain independence in the vigil of the code of conduct of the high offices, and they will be external experts to the generality. As a result, the Government has not failed to work to strengthen objectivity, impartiality, transparency, the ethic of the Administration of the Generality, of all persons serving it, whether it is dealing with other functions as if it were dealing with public employees. We have done so on the scope of the proposals and also, collected in the government's planning instruments, respect which we hold to this Parliament, of the actions carried out. This... the sum of all these actions is really what they are for the neutrality and professionalism of public institutions, transparency, ethics, and they are the result of good governance. But, obviously, they already have us accustomed to speeches full of proclamations but empty of contents. I'm not going to tell them that I'm surprised at these gestures, but we'd like them to be consistent with what they say about what they're doing. Neutrality in public management is demonstrated by these facts, and we have a lot of work to do. Now, let us not deceive the citizenry, but contribute no more to discrediting the work we do: I don't believe in those who want to impose a rule of technology; often the technology tilts to the right. What I want to put in value is politics as a gearbox, why, you know what? , this government politically, obviously, is not neutral, it is clear that it is not neutral: we have a program, some lines, and we are not neutral before injustices, and we are not neutral before the poor, and that is why we are pushing the driver of universal basic income; we are not neutral before the climate crisis; we are not neutral before patriarchy and masculinism, and yet some of you would like to decapitate with liberal feminism. This is the Women's Sport Legislature, this is the Women's Feminization Legislature in the Department of Interior; this is the Legislature that we will develop the full action and momentum of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. We are not neutral in the face of corruption, which we always pursue. We are not neutral before the problems of mental health or the discriminations that many people still suffer in our society today. I haven't been in the middle of job insecurity, either. We are not neutral before the lack of local resources, and neither are we before depopulation; they are public policies that we develop through a rural agenda that needs better mobility, connectivity, equal opportunities. Nor are we neutral before the housing emergency. And in this sense, we will push a law, a proposal for law, to fight against this housing emergence. We will defend with nails, with teeth, the lattice of the law to the content of rendering. Nor are we neutral when we see that the Catalan language is attacked every day. And, therefore, we will work from Culture, from the school, from the audiovisual sector, but also from sport, from all those sectors that enable us to promote Catalan language. We are not neutral when we have to ascertain that there are political courts and arbitrary judicial decisions. You don't seem to be a political fan there. Well, we ruled. But in any case, it seems that they only take or exhibit this need for neutrality over the table when they don't like who rules and who does politics. But, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, they begin to understand that democracy is to develop public policies that either pull them to the right or turn them to the left and that governments either defend them or limit them. And I just told them that we, the Government of the Generality, are always the ones who defend rights and freedom of speech and civil and political rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.47.0	Mr Carlos Carrizosa has the word in the reply round.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, the lack of neutrality affects how the Interior Counselor's office is carried out and how it acts in the face of what manifestations or in the face of what disciplinary files are directed against demonstrators, whether or not they are separatists. It affects External Action and how money is spent there. It affects communication. Affects TV3, affects the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. It affects the people who are appointed for their management, as my companion said very well yesterday in the hearings. Finally, it also seriously affects the use of money. You use public money..., as you believe your cause is the cause of Catalonia and it is the cause that deserves everything, because you also use and embezzle public money to pay things that are not proper to a neutral administration, but to an administration that feels separatist because you want it that way. You speak to me of Montesquieu, and you have torn Montesquieu apart with the laws of disconnection [[rieals and the sounds of the background]] and with their attitude to each of the judgments that are not favourable to them in the courts. You... I would ask you if you believe that Catalans who do not think like you have the right to freely spread our ideas throughout the territory of Catalonia and in all the municipalities, even if it is assumed that in those municipalities not everyone thinks like us. Do you have any word of censure, of reproach, for what has been done in Vic's mayorship? Are you in your government going to act as you do in Vic's mayorship? Or will they act as they seem to indicate all the stickers and symbolism on the facades of their buildings? Are you prepared, within the framework of all these other formations that you say you are going to do – a feminist, green, social government – to truly transform this shame of Catalan administration and ensure the neutrality of the administration? Look, I think separatism is a danger to self-government institutions, it's becoming a danger. I'm sure you know the book How Democracies Die, by American teachers Levitsky and Ziblatt. It alludes to the populist movements seeking the hegemony and entanglement of the political adversary by scorning representative democracy and deteriorating the democratic system from within, as did Donald Trump and as also the President of this Parliament and as you do from the Government of the Generalitat and the Mayor of Vic. His Government met the four requirements cited in the book as a political movement that despised liberal democracy and democratic institutions. It's four points. One, I reject the democratic rules of the game. You reject them. They reject the separation of powers, they reject the Constitution, they reject what the Statute of autonomy says when they do not like it. Two, denial of the legitimacy of political opponents. They call us traitors, botiflers, out of Catalonia; they make sanitary cords to certain political parties that also vote Catalans. Three, tolerance or promotion of violence. You have applauded – and I have seen it – in this Parliament people accused of terrorism in the National High Court; you encourage and put a police assailant as a Tertullian; you withdraw the accusation of aggression to the police; you harass students in universities, and you practice violence against them, and you say nothing. Therefore, they also comply with point 3. And point 4, predisposition to restrict the civil liberties of the opposition. Come on, Mrs. Erra, come on, civil liberties! Go to a people to talk about political ideas, which do not leave some and then others applaud it. Ah, well, not to mention the freedom of the press, the harassment of journalists, my own companion, who had the protection of the Association of Journalists of Madrid and the Federation of Associations of Journalists of Spain. Or the reports of the European Union, journalists without borders, who say that here you cannot practice the profession with peace. Look, all that is said here and what you sometimes laugh or boast about, or say: "No, no, no, no, or so, for these are things of sufficient gravity that you will be... you will have to react and the light of alarm set on you about what separatism is doing in Catalonia with our institutions. I'm done. I hope so. And yet, if not, then keep in mind that we will always be in Catalonia defending democracy, freedom and the neutrality of the institutions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.49.0	In the turn of the line, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.50.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... well, speaking of neutrality, no, we can't be neutral before the loss of political rights and before repression, in this we can't be neutral either. We will always stand up for the civil and political rights of the representatives of the people, always at the expense of the values of freedom of expression. [[Greetings.]] We're the ones defending in this room that needs to be able to talk about everything and that needs to be able to talk about everyone. Don't give us lessons in political ethics. You don't come here to Parliament to take control of the government or the government's impulse – much less –; you come here to stand up for victories in the run-downs and in the courts that claim to make up for the loss in the polls. You come here to get it that an administered organ, without a firm feeling, cancels a deputy's record – this neutral has nothing to do with it. And, yeah, it's been a while since we've been in an absolutely anomalous scene, it's not new. There is a repressive judicial interference against the public representatives that we are independent, and we have denounced it and, obviously, we have to defend ourselves and we have to respond always, from the anti-repression unit, without toilets, without looking at each other, jointly addressing the strategies that we want to combat it. It is a repressive offensive that can affect all of us who have decided to compromise with the citizens of Catalonia, and repression can't divide us, because if it's not a double victory, and repression is just looking for this, it's looking for this division. Therefore, all the support always unconditional to Pau Juvillà in this political, legal battle, i, especially, in the battle against malaltia. All the affection of the people here. In any case, I want to recall the words of Professor Queralt, Joan Queralt, that in an article this week's chapter..., he is a person, therefore, referent in the criminal law, who on this question rightly spoke of that neutrality is a doctrinal concept, but has no legal basis to Spain, less yet to punish criminally. The election period refers exclusively to the information policy of the public media in accordance with this legislation. And it speaks, the Constitution speaks, of the objectivity that the administrations must have, effectively: never, and under any circumstances, the Administration can fail to meet a citizen's need or fail to fulfil the service for reasons of discrimination. That doesn't mean that an elect in front of an administration can't express his ideology at all times, among other things, because we know who he is, how he thinks, and why he chose him for it. That said, I think the legal question is very clear. But if we talk about values in terms of values, neutrality is a value, but there are many others, such as freedom of expression, such as the rights of public representatives to maintain their condition, to defend and, at all times, to proclaim their ideology, whenever this ideology is not hatred and against human rights. These values – freedom of expression, fundamental rights – have been violated in Catalonia for many years. This makes the Spanish State a weak, low-intensity democracy, where ideologies are pursued by using administrative legal arguments, such as the Central Electoral Board, which judge on objectively minor facts, such as putting a hole in an assembly at a time of election campaign, and penalizing them with disqualifications for public affairs that have very important personal and political consequences. And that's not neutral people, and it's clearly with a political intent that's closer to poor values in terms of democracy and the limitation of political rights conducive to class law. He will always find the Government of the Generality fighting these unjust situations, he will always find us on the side of rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.51.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on housing policies, guarantee of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defense of the housing that has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. [[Interview with the Government on housing policies, guarantee of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defence of housing]] [[300-00111/13]] You have the word to make the questioner's statement to Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.52.0	Well; good late, deputies, deputies, councillor. He was listening to the Ple, he was following him and he was looking towards the left, and he was seeing the empty place we have here on the left. And in the end, between anger and strength, I think we should start the first intervention of the CUP without the Pau to Parliament, remembering it, remembering the more than three-thousand retaliationed people, remembering also the Maximum, which will be judged tomorrow, reminding the Arran militants that they should be judged on Tuesday, reminding the four people who were detained last week to defend the right to a decent habitat, and therefore with a very clear message from all the CUP deputies and deputies, that we will not return, we will continue to go forward and arrive until the victory and freedom of the Catalan Countries. A hug to Pau and everything else. [[Greetings.]] Well, that said, we're talking about a situation that for us it's absolute emergence and fruit of all the facts that were precipitated last week, that's all the repression around the housing movement that we're patenting in Catalonia, that we're patenting in the last few weeks and that we've seen in the last few days, in a context of severe poverty. Last week's reports said that a 20-i-nou_per_cent of the Catalan population suffered from a situation of severe poverty and also highlighted what we all know and all who are here, that housing is a key and fundamental element in responding to situations of poverty. We are talking about that during the past year they produced in Catalonia twenty denunciations every day – we are talking about 7,200 denunciations. And we also knew in parallel, through a medium, of the Critic, that the major gods in Catalonia have 25,000 floors of land. In the face of this situation, if we look at the state – of which, although we do not want, we are part now – we see how the most progressive government of history is now quite far from guaranteeing the right to a habitat worthy and willing to guarantee it; we see how they have not repealed laws that apply against housing movement here on the part of the Mosses, such as the law bites, despite promises, and we see how the supposed reforms of the right to housing have become chemeres and to keep it as a good idea. Now, we see that this moratorium, to say 'in some way', does not work at all. We've been suffering from a misrepresentation on the part of the public order, of the squadron mosses, and last week we also saw a few of them. Therefore, the institutions of the State are neither there nor expected. And the government of the generality, what? We're asking each other. What is the Government of the Generality doing? Also – and speaking to the Interior, but also with Social Rights and Habitat, with Justice and also with the government's conjunction, because we think that this is a problem that has to be addressed from the government's conjunction, it is a fundamental and strategic issue, that has not advanced, that has not advanced in the sense that, for example, the Secretary General of Habitatge, in an interview last week said that the law that would be approved in Parliament against the denials generated legal insecurity, that the vein is not clear, and at the same time that the premise for the habitation of this year would end up being the same as that of the past year. Statements by one of the main government officials in the field of housing. We see, therefore, that the investment promises in housing are not fulfilled, and now we see that other tools are being devised, as a protocol to modify the denunciations that run counter to the judiciary again, and not until recently, and from which the Government has not given any response. Who was the answer? "We're talking a little bit, we're down, we're not pressing, we're not explaining what the problem is and we're not explaining that we can't go any further there or that we don't have the will to go any further there, because this is a protocol that should have been set up months ago. And before that, what's our proposal? What we have always said, from the principles of the legislature: we think that Parliament, that independence must be the guarantee and the spearhead of social rights; that we must create a framework for independence in the defence of social rights, that Parliament and the Government must be a clear match in the defence of social rights. And it must be before a State which, as it said before, is not expected, and which, in the last few years, has banned more than thirty social laws, and which must be ungrateful of pores, despite self-limitations and ungrateful of lobby resistance in the field of housing. And we think there's no other way than to approach him face-to-face and give him a strong answer. We cannot be shielded from legal incapacity or administrative impossibility to do so. In this we have already been shielded, or Government has been shielded for a long time not to want to withdraw the private accusations against demonstrators. And now it turns out it's pot! And now it turns out it's starting to iron! And now it turns out that in some cases it's happened. I, for years, it's a saying that it's not a possibility, that it's not a possibility, that it's not a possibility. So in the realm of habitation, the same. We think we've got to get out of here. We think that the government must stop collaborating in denunciations, because it is collaborating in denunciations of vulnerable families, and doing so, with or without sensations, is violating fundamental rights, because there are also denunciations without sensations. But even in cases where there are feelings, they are violating their fundamental rights. The government cannot leave a family with three children on the street without alternative housing and in an emergency situation, even though it says so. A sentence cannot say that it must be public order in a denunciation, it cannot do so, and, if it does, it must be answered and it must be waged legal and political battle, and that is not being done by the Government. So, what do we find ourselves with? That in the end the Squadron Mosses end up acting as a first piece of the whole persecution to dissent and political mobilization. To make it a firm political attitude, an attitude of legal response and to plant face in its conjunction, like the Government – questions that we see are not happening. There are feelings from the national hearing itself that state that there is no anti-disturbation to be released in certain situations, and we have a very well-known one, which is from '1 October 2017, that it is the feeling in which the previous dome of the Mossos is abolished and that says thus textually: "The option finally installed in practice for the Autonomous Police to restrict the intervention of anti-disturbing effects before the possible cause of irreparable and disproportionate damage must be considered, at least, as reasonable. Although I might have opted for other types of police intervention, I could have discussed which one was the most appropriate. But it's that, besides, it's not that we're disobeying the law to stop charges, it's that we're not even getting to the limits of our skills to do it. Therefore, we think that the government's response is not on the rise. It's absolutely suspended in habitation, and not just that, but it's going a lot further out there, accompanying the lobbyists, accompanying the great tenors, accompanying speculation and against the rights of the people. That's why we wanted to ask, to the Interior, to the Government, to the groups of those who are part of it: does it seem to you that the movement for housing accumulates more than 300,000 euros in sanctions in application of the law bite? Does it look okay to you? Do you agree? Does it look like it's a good government policy? Does it seem to them that during the last few months the movement for housing reported that they have detained thirty people to participate in denunciations? Do you agree? Does this seem to be the government's policy in this area? Does it seem to you that the Prefecture of the Mosso d'Esquadra, according to press sources, ordered last week's arrests, is being investigated through the Group of Violent Extremes of Mosso d'Esquadra? Does it look right? Does this seem to be the government's policy on housing movement? It seems to them as well that you would commit as Via Laietana..., ai, sorry, commissariats like Ciutat Vella – apologiain – actin arrest orders against protestors of the movement in defense of the habitat without judicial order and detaining them? Does it seem to them that last week he is held in four people, on behalf of Mossos d'Esquadra, to participate in mobilizations in defense of the right to housing without any type of judicial order? Is this your policy? Is this the policy of the Government, the Interior Department and the groups that conform it? We believe that urgent answers must be given, that it must be clarified whether these are orders from the Interior Department, the Government or not, and, if they are not, who gives them. And also to clarify if they intend to comply with the commitments they have made to the principle of this legislature. I will remind you two in the area of housing: to stop the application of the law bite in mobilizations, also in denunciations – this is not happening. And another, to put up with the intervention of antidisturbing, of public order, in denunciations of vulnerable families. This didn't happen to the Poble Sec a few days ago, it didn't happen to Badalona, and last week it didn't happen to a lot of places. Therefore, we wanted to ask: is this the compromise of the Department of the Interior, complete with all these questions? Is that the government's compromise? Do the groups according to the government agree that this is the priority? We think they're urgent questions and that they're necessary questions and that I can answer them now and here, can't wait any longer. And not because we give it to the UPC just because people need answers, people need to know if the government is going to respect the rights of the citizenry or are going to appear in the back courts and in the big power lobby. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Then we'll move on. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.53.0	The word has now come from the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.54.0	President, deputies, deputy... yes, this morning, for example, there have been quite a few denunciations, quite a few. The other day in a barri de Barcelona there were also a few, and, in particular, there was one, for example, in which a person who was vulnerable to a petition from a person who, in that case, was also a vulnerable person was denouncing himself. This situation calls on all administrations: the Government of Catalonia, naturally; also the local administrations; also, he said, the Government of the State. All administrations. And for many years. Because with the media, what do they know and know that from Squad moss has been and will continue to be driven to the maximum, in the background what do we get? Suspend a denunciation. Suspend 'lper how many days? It's got to be done, huh? And it has to be done, and so long as it has to be done, and it has to be done, to look for housing alternatives for people who suffer from denunciation. But let's just say, is this really the problem with the background to this question? Is it really the denunciation, which is the last moment, which is the expression of the weak, let's say, yes, of the public administrations, when there are vulnerable people who lose their habitation? So this reflection, also from the Interior Department, which is what it is systematically based on, because it is what visually appears to be who it calls. The problem is much more profound, and the problem is much deeper, and the problem is much broader, and it goes from a lot and a lot and a lot; it goes from policies that have, for example, brought about that, of all the votive sources that have, one of the most severe, the most intransigent, the most few dialoguers, the most difficult mediated to reach agreement with vulnerable people, is precisely the Sareb, for example – this is also a reality that we are living –, which works on the margins of any public administration, to everything that you are responsible for, and that goes on your own, without being aware of the coming of the floors that you manage and the floors that you have. It is, therefore, a weakness of public policies. Yes, it is, and it has to be recognized and it has to be clearly stated. That's why the reverse situation needs to be reversed and resourced. Now reference is made to what is the government's commitment to housing: there is a very concrete compromise that is the presuppositional departure of the 2022 premise, which is, of course, to be completed, and naturally to be completed. The Mosses are not the ones who disclaim, the Mosses are not the ones who make the disclaimers; the Mosses are the ones who execute a court order to throw a disclaimer. And naturally that we are working to make a protocol of different functioning, according to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and naturally that we are also making an internal protocol of functioning, which will be in the coming weeks, about how to operate in the case of denunciations. But I would like to invite you, in relation to this question, to reflect. Do you think that if you decide not to obey a specific order that sends to a group of Mossos a court to tell him that at such a place, that day, such an hour goes to do a certain thing, that is not what you will do? Are we aware that it will also be done? And here I'm gonna do it? So surely some other force of security. For this and to ensure that Catalonia continues to have an integral police force, we must ensure that the changes that are made are viable, are possible. And I'm wondering if this compromise we've signed is what we're holding on to. Clearly, that we keep it – clear, that we keep it. And we have eight months of government. And God is there in the things that have progressed in many areas of the Department of the Interior. And we will continue to work in this direction to make it possible. But because it is effectively feasible, because it is truly viable, because the change is a reality. And not just to make a gesture. That after that same person will end up, and knows it, deboned, by one force of security or by another. And, therefore, the protocols and changes naturally to be made; we are working, I assure you, as much as we can. I want to put a context situation. From 2016 to 20, there were 57,000 – 57,000 – denunciations; Mosos only participated in less than the twenty_per_cent of these denunciations, and in those who had problems, let's say, some kind of incident, was 0.7, not up to four hundred. The rest... some of which aren't vulnerable people, huh? But the rest have been called equally. Because they either directly accepted the court order and left or when they lost their sentence, before they executed it, so, already... There's been 57,000 misdemeanors. That's the theme – that's the theme. And that does not exclude our responsibility. And you know – and you know it – that we are working there. We're mediating. Miri, from Mosso d'Esquadra, in the past, in all the denunciations, mediated, and not only mediated, but he did follow up on everything that would have happened before in relation to that denunciation and that many times has not happened; from looking at whether social servants have made the report that was to be made, whether the judge has the report of vulnerability, that many times does not have it, to address it to the judge, to interlocate with the judge so that he may make a different decision, if he considers it, in the event that there is a vulnerable person who did not know him. All this follow-up and all this monitoring is part of this government's will, yes, policy because things are different. And also to make a new protocol for the relationship of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as the judicial police, with the High Court of Justice, and renew what is happening in 2013. And this will allow for new legislation, which is working in this Parliament and is likely to be passed in the very Ple. And also changing this political will. And also modifying the internal working protocol. And also negotiating with the courts, and in this case with the High Court, in this new legal reality, to make possible a new protocol. And we're working hard and leaving all the hours you need to make it possible. Because I started it by saying that the Interior Department doesn't have any skills in housing, but if we've dedicated hours and energy to something, it's precisely to minimize the impact of this dramatic situation that we've seen so much – so much – people. Protocol, therefore, internal; protocol of relationship with the High Court of Justice; change of legislation here to the Parliament of Catalonia; petition to the Government of the State, that we repeat at these times, because the moratorium that in principle ends on the 28th of February is maintained until the new law of the State of habitation is approved. It seems to me that it is imperative that this is done. And call on all groups in the Congress of Deputies to guarantee it and the Government of the State to make it possible. But this moratorium we were talking about, and it's the one that supported the court's argument because the relationship protocol with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, this moratorium, is not working. And it's true. It's a moratorium that guarantees that big bad guys can't call vulnerable people, and it's happening every day. And this reality we are also transferring to the High Court of Justice because I changed criteria in relation to the new protocol that we need to address. I was running out of time, and I also wanted to deal with the other question that he raised and that I will do in the turn of the line. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.55.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.56.0	Well, thank you. Well, counselor, we're in a situation where there's a moratorium – which is not effective – that it's law and there's a series of court orders that say it's to be called. Whose gang are we, the law or the court order? We're very clear about this. And this has to be a government settlement. If there's a law you're saying, a moratorium you're saying you can't call vulnerable families, why are vulnerable families being called? Why does the government allow it? Why are the Mossos going to call? It's just that we don't... we really don't understand. If now that there is a moratorium on the table that prevents the denunciation of vulnerable families, what kind of law is occurring, will prevent there from being no denunciations, if it is blindly followed by judicial orders that violate phonental rights, that cause much harder injuries than would cause them not to apply it, and that generate situations of absolute helplessness or absolute Kafkian, such as the production of a denunciation to Badalona of a hundred people in a situation of absolute vulnerability, that the only one that they were demanaging was that you passed the cold to be able to go further? There is neither the competence nor the ability on the part of the Government to say, "So we'll expect one, Mr. Court; we can't call now because the fact of calling will cause much harder injuries? We don't even have that capacity, do we, the government? Because if we don't have it, it has to be explained, because if we don't, we can't find the right solutions. We think that we do have it and that we must explore it legally until the end. But anyway, if it isn't, explain why. And that connects a little with the other question, which has not had time to answer and which will now, of course, be done with the performance of the police and certain areas within the police. Is this performance controlled? Is there any kind of control? Or are there areas of the Mossos that go free, that do whatever they want, that act to mark the political agenda and that do not respond to any type of political guideline and that, therefore, are acting in favor of their own will to politically influence society? Is that happening? We think so; we think it's likely. In any case, the silences in front of situations of injustice such as last week's arrests or the silences in front of certain charges of the Mossos by the government, on the part of the Interior, make us think, therefore, that at least there is a connection, or by action or omission. What we don't understand is why the government doesn't explain it, if there's this problem. Because we won't be able to find the solutions if it doesn't explain what the problem is. And if the government agrees, let's say it, and if it doesn't agree, let's say it and explain what's going on. And if there is a lack of control within the Mossos, that the group of violent extremists, by an internal order, that has no type of political directive, is poised to spy on the movement for habitation, we have a very big problem. We think we have this problem. Manifestine, this problem; make it obvious, and let's look for solutions and answers. If an officer of the Squad Moys can activate an arrest warrant against an activist because he thinks he can do it without any kind of judicial order and without any flagrant crime, and it's not a political order, it's that we have a problem. If we have a leak for information and investigation, that we don't know what's going on there and who they're investigating... As for example, today, a new news came out, in which we came asking for an expedient of a sanctioned move, that, according to the dispatch, he only dedicated himself during months to sending mail to organizations like Endavant, like Arran, like La Forja, like the CGT, like the housing movement of the Poble Sec; he supplanted a mail from the CUP to pass through the CUP sending mail for information. This has been done by an agent or here is an information division, an investigation division, that goes for free, that is marking the political agenda...? And he's making a purge. Because this is a purge; this is a purge against the movement for housing, this is a purge against dissent and this is a purge against the people who are mobilizing, and this is a purge. And if we have this problem and this is happening inside, let's make things clear. I think that if we have something after these past few days, these past few weeks, it is certain that if we say the clear things, if we explain what happens, if we explain which limits we have and with which limits we find ourselves, also before the judiciary, also before those who act for free in certain areas of the Administration, surely it would be easier to find solutions or, as a minimum, we would apply a principle of reality and explain things to people as they are. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.57.0	The word has the advisor of Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.58.0	President.... Deputy, Members, Members, things can be changed and changed and, in fact, some, some, you have made reference to some, you can change and you have changed. And when I say that this councillor's commitment is the compliment of the program you signed is because the councillor's commitment is to complete the program you signed. And it does so because it is our obligation to the citizens and to this Parliament; and it will do so and it will work. Legislatures don't have eight months, sometimes they have, but legislatures have four years and compromise and determination to change things we have. I'm referring to a horrific fact that just recently produced Badalona. We'll have the opportunity to talk to us enough. I said that in that denunciation, from my point of view, it would have been opportune that, as a result of the mediation, it had been delayed, because effectively for humane questions the situation of vulnerability in which the people who were left out..., who came out of..., were denunciated, were tragic. But this situation did not defend the people. The same together the same day he declared that he was absolutely in agreement. The opposition of that group was also absolutely in agreement; the majority opposition group, forgive me, the majority opposition group. And in part, from the perspective of the municipal government, I understand. Four days ago on the side of the council there was a tragedy of some people living in unacceptable conditions on a ship. And sometimes the dilemma is this. In a dramatic situation of people living in an unacceptable situation at risk of accidents and also in the dramatic situation of what needs to be done. But this was certainly the reality of that denunciation and you know what the position of this advisor was in relation to that denunciation. For what he refers to detentions, in the value of respect for extremism, etc., I am opposed to the stigmatization of the body for his gaze and his ideological position. And it seems undemocratic to me to stigmatize, to pursue, to spy, to investigate the collection for ideological reasons. The collectivities, except that they are declared organizations..., judicially criminal organizations, the collectivities, think what they think, defend what they defend, do not commit crimes. It is committed by individual persons, not by the collective, and therefore this councillor is not a supporter of persecution or of the investigation of any collective, whichever is his ideological position. Mass time passed on this to collectivities and movements which now defend their positions, most of this Parliament and which for many years have been considered worthy of suspicion. Therefore, this will never defend this councillor. And according to where he refers to arrests, I think that arrests always have to be, always have to be the last resort, the last way to get to connect with a person when they have to go to court. And this is a position that defends this counselor and that defends anyone who defends a penal code and a democratic criminal procedure. Therefore, from this point of view, my position and that of the department is this, while it is also my position and that of the department to fulfill the commitments made, as we have done in so many things during these past eight months. And I end up with one thing, the situation of vulnerability that many people suffer and the denunciations of which they are object, for me, are an absolute priority, changing the conditions that allow these things that we are living not to happen. And in this I will continue to thank all the energy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.59.0	Let's get to the top of the agenda, the question to the government about Catalan language to the university and research system, presented for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Asking the Government about Catalan language in the university and research system]] [[300-00114/13]] You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry to Congresswoman Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.60.0	Good afternoon, deputies. Counsellor Geis, today we have this question about the Catalan language and would like to start with a quote from a Danish linguist, Jespersen, who said: "Languages are in reality human creations and our duty is to support them, to maintain them and, above all, to improve them for future generations. The language, ladies and gentlemen, is a heritage. And here we are lucky enough to be born with one language and to incorporate one quickly. And that's what we need to know to see that it's a treasure. And it would have to be all of this, and I'm telling you one time and another, which would have to preserve it, and it would have to worry because all of us – all of us – have the same rights. At these times there is no language within the European Union of the dimensions and historical reality of the catalá so legally unprotected and with such a strong legal imposition of another language, in this case the castle. And the first problem, gentlemen, is already the Constitution. The Constitution defends a language alone, the duty to learn a language alone. The castle is the only one, the català does not have the same rank, nor the gallec, nor the basc; nor do the names of these languages appear. Consequence: if the same country does not recognize its languages, neither does the European Union. How absurd it is, because I follow it: it is a privilege, it is a richness. I will always remember an interview that Gabilondo did to our international model, Judith Mascó, and asked her if it was not a mess of little ones having to be arranged with two languages, and she said to him: "Miri, I, when I got to Milà's model school, with two_months he perfectly dominated Italy. On the other hand, my Lion's companions were carrying six months and had not yet reached the same level. Because in the end, growing with the brain organized into two plain languages makes a third one much easier to envelope, and therefore, I have not just heard what this bias is against a more tongue in his life. You sometimes come out here, especially VOX and Ciutadans, and the other day the People's Party, laughing at how the use of Catalan language fell. When the use of the Catalan language declines, they come here, they run and say no, that's the pressure we have to retrace trades in Catalan. No, ladies and gentlemen, there are many studies of why the use of a language, and among others – and it is done many years ago – is also the massive arrival of more than one million people from outside, most of them speaking Spanish, and therefore makes it much harder, and therefore the obligation to regulate to preserve this heritage that we have that is our language. If it's not hard enough all folded up, there's no match that has political ends the only thing it does is fight against our language. Neix Ciutadans. Only – only – against a language. I've already advanced you: you won't get any luck. And to the other games: don't imitate them, look where they're finished. Please, try to be yourself. If one thing we have the Catalans is that despite the political differences there may be, we are a large majority willing to defend our language clinging. Unfortunately, our country's university research system is also not free from these evils. The knowledge system, which should be protected with nails and teeth on all sides, has been put too often on the target of hatred. When it's not the language of the University Access Tests, it's the language of the classes and if not any other excuse, and they attack them. Anything less than politics and proposals. And that which is not won in the ballot box, as always, therefore, attempts to win in the courts. And it's the same if this is at the expense of university autonomy. He will advise, once you have taken on the advice you have already focused on guaranteeing the rights of the language and is also working towards the compliment of the legal framework in language policy, with protocols to defend the rights of the students and to train the trainers. And here I want to especially thank him for the spread that has been made of the rights that students have that ensure the language in which they are informed that they are doing those subjects, that it may seem absurd to them, but they are right that they sometimes consider that they do not have and know where they can go that this is being defended is very important. And this broadcast that's been going on since the councillor's office has also come to the media, and I think that's something we don't have to congratulate ourselves on. I would also like to highlight the increased presupposition that came to an end in this 2022 in university and research policy. And this government's willingness to put knowledge at the centre of the country's political agenda. There's a special fact that I want to stop and it's an exhibition of what the council is doing: the insurmountable compromise of the entire country's knowledge system with our language. And it is this act that was made on the 28th of genera on the language to the university system and on the search for the modernist district of Sant Pau. I'm using text words from one of the speakers. « Unusual day. Never before had there been a busy day of consulting in charge of universities to try to establish a model of consensus and enhance Catalan language in the university model of Catalonia. So, thank you, Counselor. And I would also like to point out how really important and impacting: the whole system of knowledge was present, to support such an important initiative as it was to present itself, was the plan to strengthen the català. With the Culture Councillor present also to the act, rectors of universities, directors of research centres, political representatives of student organizations or linked to the world of culture and knowledge. I have no doubt that this union is the beginning of something very big and a real turning point. Defending language requires courage and compromise, yes, but it also requires threading the needle and making concrete proposals and finding solutions. Lately, we see often piles, articles, we hear comments from friends or family members about the situation of the Catalan language at universities. We have expressed our concern about this issue, and when she assumed the position of Councillor she committed herself to making an accurate, real and rigorous diagnosis of català to universities and the system of knowledge in general. And I am pleased, like the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, that this diagnosis has already come to an end. To do politics it is necessary to be very careful, to do a little soroll and a lot of work. And this is the attitude we see on this board. I should also like to say that once we have seen the data provided to us on that day by Director General Xavier Quinquilla, we celebrate that the Catalan language continues to be the language of majority use in the universities of our country. But we agree with you, there is room for improvement. We have the question because we believe that it is here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, that it seeks to talk about this very important issue. There's a future for us. Catalonia's knowledge system is facing a lot of challenges and in a short time it will have to face some of the things we see at the time. I am talking about the LOSU, of which you yourself, counsel, have said on various occasions that it is an excessively regulatory bill, that it does not propose a model of universities that does not respect the singularity of the Catalan university – as is already usual, it does not respect singularities – and has little vision of the future. I would also like to talk about labour reform, which has a strong impact on the scientific ecosystem. I could give more examples of this uniformist obsession of the Spanish State, but we would be out of time. We know that you have had a common front with the country's universities and research centers to shield the system, to stop the state's re-entering pulse, and you will have us at your side, Counselor. There is no doubt that since Juntes for Catalonia there are, to defend our language also in the university and scientific sphere, to defend the university and the research that are our future, to defend our young people and the opportunities that they deserve, to defend our professors and researchers and their talent. Because we know that strengthening language, that boosting knowledge is relaunching Catalonia. And I want from here to thank you, Counselor, that you have placed language policy as one of your priorities, uncomplex and forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.61.0	Thank you very much. Then, there's the words of the Research and University Advisor, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.62.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... So I thank you, Congresswoman Freixa, who today asked me here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, the house of all Catalans; and if there is any place you've heard about the Catalan language and the Catalan language, it's here. Therefore, thank you for this inquiry. I would first like to thank all the representatives of the university community who attended this 28th day, there were more than two hundred people, to the modernist district of Sant Pau, a 28th generation, on this day of debate on the university system and Catalan language. The 28th generation is the day J.V. was born. I did, and I started the act with a quote that I said: "The beautiful paths are multiplied where you think the road was over. And it's that on this 28th we sealed an alliance of the whole system to strengthen the Catalan language, in a consensual, reasoned and data-driven way, and work for this Catalan language enhancement plan at universities. Universities and research centres are where they are created, transmitted and disseminated scientific, humanistic, technical and professional knowledge, and for this reason they are knowledge institutions, from Catalonia, they are a basic pillar for our country and we believe that in this basic pillar of our country the Government must be there. You, Mrs Freixa, refer to the davalada of the use of the Catalan language, and we, with this plan of reinforcement of the Catalan language, what we are doing is this resurgence, this defense of the Catalan language..., therefore, make the contribution that like the Research and University consultancy close to us. In this sense, I also want to place a lot of value on the work done by the deputy, former deputy and now director general, in Xavier Quinquilla, with the task of this Directorate General of Territorial Impact, that one of the missions that they had in their birth was precisely this and others that we are working on. But I would also like to place a lot of value on the work that has been done by all the language units in each of the universities, because we also have this majority system because there have been these language units, and there have been a lot of teachers and a lot of students and not much compromise with this defense of Catalan language. But now what we need is to rethink, act and strengthen. And there was a phrase in a language interview with Carme Junyent that said "everything that is imposed is condemned to the fracá, it doesn't work – everything that is imposed is condemned to the fracá, it doesn't work, and we see it with the feeling of the twenty-five percent of the castle, which has just the opposite effect: it is reactivating the defense of the Catalan language by all social actors in this country. (Applause.) And it's that a country... because a country, a state, that imposes is a state that has no future, and a state that imposes through the courts of justice is a democraticly disabled state. What have we done so far? So what we've done is we've promoted governance-related measures to ensure the rights of languages and to vet for the compliment of the legal mark in language policy; we've activated new protocols to follow these influences on the teaching language change, and to guarantee this language training of the faculty we've increased economic resources; and we've got this full X-ray. In fact, we have the data of the year 2020-2021, which we made public with full transparency, and we have counted the percentage of assignments given in each language. For what it does to university degrees, 70.5_per_cent is divided into Catalan, 26.8_per_cent into Castle, 22.1_per_cent into third languages, mainly English. For what he does to masters, who count on a high presence of students who come from outside the university system of Catalonia, the catalá pes is considerably reduced to 39,8_per_cent of assignments, the castle with 37,9_per_cent and a third language 32,9_per_cent. For what he does to doctoral theses, the presence of català represents a 10,3_per_cent, in front of 54_per_cent of the theses that are read in a third language, the English, and in this case, in these figures, it must be taken into account that a 52_per_cent of the theses are laws for doctorates from outside the català university system. Therefore, here we have room for improvement, and the students of our system do represent a 20.3_per_cent. We therefore believe that there is room for improvement in guaranteeing the Catalan language as a vehicle in the field of research, of scientific dissemination and also for what it does to masters. Who are the next steps we've taken? So six great objectives: first, to make the use of català as a vehicle for university teaching; to guarantee the linguistic rights of students, teachers and the entire university community and research; to guarantee the right to teach in català; fourth, to improve the linguistic skills in Catalan language of students and teachers; fifth, to increase the use of català in search, the transfer of knowledge and scientific dissemination – this is what we believe is very important–; if so, to strengthen the relations between the entire university and research community between Catalan speaking territories. And these objectives are absolute: basically, university teaching in catalá, research and transfer of knowledge in catalá and catalá in a context of internationalization and as the language of finding and living together. Therefore, we are enough of this alliance to which you refer, I am well aware that you are not alone – you are not alone – and, therefore, we are knitting this alliance. But also with an open look at the world, and already the announcement that we are working and closing a third language reinforcement plan, also in the university sphere, that this was also a compromise of the council, because we believe that the defense of Catalan language is compatible with an international university, with a university in a global context. And, therefore, we can also present this third language support plan, which, moreover, in this assumption, we have tripled the presuppositional endowment to make it a front. Because when we talk about an open look, and above all, because sometimes they want to box us up, don't they? , they want to fit in, we recognize the diversity of Catalonia. Catalonia is a diverse and inclusive society, and it also converts us..., it is a country of integration of students and researchers. Now, the big difference with other countries like Denmark or the Netherlands, with speakers' figures and linguistic territories smaller than Catalonia, is that the Danish and Dutch have a good state and the Catalans don't. And not only that, but we have a state that is against us, and we need to be very aware of the difficulties of protecting the catalá with a Spanish state that only puts us on the road. Therefore, from this recognition of this difficulty, we have placed ourselves, this university community, to make this plan of enhancement, but I also say that in the next few days other measures of the Department of Research and Universities will emerge, that we will not wait until April to make them public, because I am sure that among all of us we will find a way to preserve our language, to make it stronger before they want to disappear and for this reason I wanted to start my intervention with this appointment of J. V. Foix: "The beautiful paths are multiplied there where I believe the road is finished. And I am sure that these paths will be able to find the entire university community in a consensual way, with this open look, because it is possible to strengthen the catalá and that Catalonia continues to be a knowledge pole in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.63.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the need for a fair, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work]] [[300-00113/13]] Let us now turn to the 14th item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the need for a just, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work. The Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented it, and it has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry to Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.64.0	MPs, MPs, councillors, counselors, workers, parliamentary workers, you've got a chance you'll be here this hour, huh? [[Rialles.]] In a fully conscious society, not to listen to me just because it's the last of the day, a long day and a long day. Well, counselor, we're talking about work, we're talking about the job market, and we're talking about the opportunities that we can give to a lot of people in our country, but, as we always say, we want solutions for everyone and, therefore, we don't want to let anyone go. In this fabric and in this context, we must act on the lever of active policies, and therefore, in this sense, I think it is very important that we highlight, precisely, this course of action, which at the time you have already presented, and that in any case you will be able to give us more information in your reply. In any case, I'd also like to make a rest for the entire trajectory, huh? , starting for the year 2008. The year 2008, the reception was austerity, the reception also, again using the pretext of the European Union, was the talk. The year 2008 the proposal was the 2010 work reforms of the PSOE, the 2012 work reforms of the PP. In addition, there was another element that was key, and that outraged a good part of the citizenry, that it was the bank rescue, beyond everything that involved the unification of boxes and the transformation that meant for the system to finance the transformation of boxes and, therefore, its social contribution and its line of financing to social projects, to banking entities, to banks. 2020, 2021, 2022, what are we finding? So we are finding a recipe that uses the same tools: a labor reform that is completely inadequate and the "nationalization, among comets, of the Sareb, that what does is socialize the costs and privatize the benefits. Therefore, we are in a scene where there are more than obvious similarities, a scene under the pretext of the European Union is to modify regulations that are essential for the vital development of our country's citizenship. With regard to labour reform, our position is very clear, and tomorrow there is a motion of respect, so we can talk more broadly about it. But the position of the Republican Left has always been the same: from this Faristol and from all the Faristols, we have defended the repeal of the 2010 and 2012 labor reforms. From this cliff and from all the cliffs, we have defended that it is necessary to return the administrative authority prior to the submission of tank regulation consignments and, therefore, to empower the labor authority so that it can affect the conflict before it finds itself already the consignment from the table. From this cliff and from many other chambers, we have also defended the prevalence of autonomous agreements over the rest. We also defended the return to forty-five-day compensation for the year worked. We also defended the recovery of processing wages. And this is a very important element, because the processing wages, if they don't get back, means that those workers who want to start a legal dispute won't be able to do it because all this time they won't have an input path. Therefore, there are many workers in our country who decide to leave the struggle for their labor rights because they do not have an economic coverage that you allow them to do so. And all this was very related to policies, to active employment policies, and also to passive policies. And also from this time, we have called for the competent transfer of passive policies and full management on the part of the SOC of all – of all – questions relating to the work area and to training and reintegration into the labour market. And this is where I think it's important that we also make things clear. We are there where we have always been and, therefore, from its department, now with Enterprise and Work, we have new opportunities to boost new transformative dynamics and, therefore, we also have the capacity, from the limited skills that we have unfortunately, to stimulate new solutions, to stimulate new receptions for ancient problems, for old problems. Because the ones that have been pushed so far have not worked. I believe that there has been a time when all the Members of this Parliament and the Members of this Parliament know each other as a memory: in a time of pandemic the youth force grew to 43,2_per_cent. A youthful tremor that has worried us. The good news is that at the 2021 shutdown, these data have begun to change, they have begun to reverse, and at the end of 2021 we have the best occupancy rate of the entire history since 2008. Therefore, these data are positive, but we cannot say that there are some satisfactory data, because the percentage of youth is still very high. In fact, he knows very well the situation and he knows perfectly well that there are other collectors in our country who are the ones who quickly have the impact of any crisis that we are experiencing, they are the young, they are the women and they are the people who are older than forty-five years. And, therefore, these must be our concerns, the concerns of the Republican Left, as the force of social transformation, as the force of the left that really has the full conviction that we have lost a great opportunity in this labor reform, but above all also as the group that gives support to a government that also wants to be transformative, and in the matter of labor policy we also have to go on demonstrating day after day. Therefore, this plan of shoc and this social reversal of these 917 million euros must give a result, we must accomplish with some objectives. And that's where, counselor, we'd like to be able to explain to you how this reversal is right now, at what point we are, what is the degree of absolvement of the different objectives set and what is the value that, at this time of year, you have of the impact that you're having on this rock board. But in addition, in youth policy we also have to talk a lot about training, and in this legislature, we have talked on repeated occasions in this Faristol, and also in the Committee on Enterprise and Work and also in the Committee on Education, on repeated occasions we have talked about vocational training, and we have talked about the impetus required by vocational training. And I always remember that when I joined this chamber as a Member of Parliament last year, the great demand there was that the law of vocational training had not been implemented, that there was no public agency of vocational training. Well, that's all we've got now. One of the other important elements was, precisely, that there had been no unblocking of situations that were engulfed and that, unfortunately, today we cannot say that they have finally been unblocked, such as, for example, the Centre for Vocational Training in Automotive. So this, in the past legislature and in which we carry this, has been given a great boost. And I think it's good that we explain it too, because it's been a long time since we've seen this in a future that we can positively value or that we don't see that there's a change that you've allowed to clear up a situation that's different from what we've been living up to now. A good part of the problems in youth employment are also derived, logically, from this formation, which must be territorialized and adapted to the labour market, the new opportunities, but also to orientation and prospecting. Therefore, counselor, respect what you have to do with your department and young people's policies, and also respect the standard mark that we have, what does it value, in the end and in the end, of the different actions that have gone forward since your department, such as, for example, this plan of action? I thank you very much for having this conversation and this dialog, and, without any doubt, I am convinced that I will be fully satisfied with your answer, or I hope so. [[Give me the applause.]] But don't worry, man, don't worry. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.65.0	Then, you have the word to answer the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.66.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. I don't know if he gave me a goal center or put me up a lot, huh? In any case, I will try not to disappoint your expectations, as you proposed. In the title of your inquiry – now I was referring to it – you are talking about a way out of the just, sustainable and equitable crisis – I think it is the three adjectives that it serves – and it does not seem to me that these three adjectives are still going on. These are just the elements that we need to put into value on this different outcome of the crisis compared to 2008. They are fundamental elements because precisely how we look at this moment will explain what opportunities we are generating in the future. Therefore, it is not just a question of palliative cures, that is, how we get out of the moment, but how we look at the future that awaits us. And precisely, if we talk about the future that awaits us, active employment policies directed at young people – now I will talk about it, obviously – are a nuclear element, a central element. In any case, you did a rest of how you responded in 2008 to the financial crisis and how you are responding at these times to the pandemic crisis, which leads us to look at 2022, huh? And from our point of view, we are convinced of this: 2022 will be the year of consolidation of recovery. And, if this is to be the year of consolidation, it means that 2021 will be the year of this recovery, we'll detect it, and we'll see it with the data. In fact, especially in the last quarter of 2021 there are some very positive data for this recovery this year. For example, by entry, GDP growth of 5.9_per_cent– 6.9_per_cent per year, if we count from October to December. Or the growth of exports, which we provide for €74,000_million two months before the year is over and we have exceeded expectations. Therefore, it is not only that we recover data respect prior to the covid but that we beat historical memories. We also have historical memories from a point of view of the figures of the past, figures of the past that we have not had since 2008 at least, so from this whole historical series that you were also drawing. Or the industrial production index, huh? , which increased by 8.2_per_cent, when the average in the Spanish State is set_per_cent. So, positive figures. Now, that can't hold us back, that can't make us entertain those weakened ones that we still have on the table, some of which are more conjunctural – there are still 26,312 Catalans and Catalans in ERTO's situation, therefore, a structural difficulty that affects the reality of many families – and others of which are more structural. Weaknesses of the world of work, of the world of work that point to certain collections that continue to have it very difficult to access or to keep places of work. Three collections that you pointed out: the young, the majors of forty-five years and the women. And I'll focus, because you put it that way, put together a collection of young people. And in this collection, in this segment of the population, it is obvious that we cannot conform to the current situation, that we cannot conform to what has historically been given and which has affected the young people and young people of this country and which constitutes this element, this weakened structural character on which we must act. And we have to act because it represents an obvious fact from a point of view, from a point of view, from a point of view, from a band, because it generates precariousness, because it perpetuates inequalities – the youth's youth also perpetuates inequalities – and, finally, because no country – neither can we allow the luxury of underprivileging the talent and energy of your youth. That's what I'm talking about. But, more than that, of the future, youth tourism impacts individually on many stories of the lives of Catalans and Catalans who see their plans for the future, for emancipation, for personal growth, etcetera, and also for generations frustrated, eh? And that's phoney. So these elements are there, they're on the table, and they got worse during the pandemic. You were talking about this 43,2_percent increase in youth development during the pandemic. Basically, because it is a collection that is subject to a high temporality. Therefore, as far as we were concerned – by the way, the Spanish State has been the leader since 2008 in youth, we have been flushing this sacra – we must add the fact, the impact of the covid. But, at the same time, it is also true – and around referring to the 2021 shutdown data – that we have closed the year to 19,740 younger people than twenty-five years in a situation of twilight, which is also the lowest xifra of the entire historical series. So, there's an element to hope. Therefore, given the X-ray – structural elements, conjunctural situations and difficulties we are experiencing – what have we done? Before all this, what is the Department of Business and Work doing? And, as is well said, what we are doing is deploying the active employment policy framework, EUR 917 million of public resources for active employment policies, of which EUR 800 million have already been deployed, directed at different programmes that attack the course of those three collections that we mentioned and specifically also the youth; directed at these collections that have more difficulties in accessing or maintaining work places. Precisely for a just exit to the crisis, as you said, to correct structural conditions and also to drive the transformation of our product model, which, in fact, is what we have proposed ourselves as the Government. And they are programs, from this level of shock, that go to form aspects, to orientation aspects and to aspects, obviously, of better occupational skills, of their professional skills and young people. And of this shoc plan, of these 917_million euros, and specifically to attack youth, I now want to put in value is the program of help to enterprises, autonomes, to associated labor cooperatives, by means of which is finance with a little more than 17,000 euros the contract of a young person less than thirty years for a whole year in full time. We spend EUR 125 million there and expect to reach seven thousand young people, Catalans and Catalans. And what I want to do today, today, you take advantage of this very moment to make a call to these companies, these autonomies, to these cooperatives to build on this program, to take advantage of this program, which began on 31 December and ends on 31 March, precisely to take advantage of these public resources that are at the disposal of the country's business fabric to hire young people, therefore, to incorporate talent into their organizations. This is an approach that we have made with this 917-million-euro unemployment plan in active employment policies. This is only one; the others also headed to young people, to attack this youthful trembling, but specifically this very concretely. Active occupation policies, which is the instrument we have, one of the instruments we have in the abst. We don't have them all – we would want them all. That's precisely why some of us are independent, that's precisely why some of us are republicans and want a republic, to have the tools that states have to generate opportunities for the young people of their country; the tools that a state needs to be able to attack these difficulties or these feverish ones that we present. And in this sense, while we did not have all the tools, we had the opportunity with a job reform that we said was not the one that Catalonia needed, between other considerations or between other questions, because we did not take advantage of this opportunity to recover some of the tools that the Government of the Generality had, and specifically the field of work, to be able to act, for example, in processes of collective acceptance, and, therefore, to have mediation tools in the field of reindustrialisation, which in the end are places of work that impact directly on the descent of the environment into our country. Or the priority of the agreed collectives, or the reinforcement of the Labour Inspectorate, all of which reinforce active employment policies and enable us to strengthen the catalyse framework of labour relations, which is the instrument of concertation, social dialogue, the construction of concrete measures that will effectively generate no more jobs but generate them more worthy, more stable, better quality, better paid, that is to say, preparing a fairer, more equitable and more sustainable way out of the crisis. That's what we're doing, we're deploying these 917 million euros, of which 800 have already been deployed. And in any case, we will continue to work with all those instruments that we have in our midst to generate opportunities for the young people of this country, because at the end of the day it is the richness of the present and above all the future of Catalonia. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-08-2401.67.0	Thank you very much. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
