ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session in the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the territorial planning necessary to guarantee food sovereignty]] [[300-00183/13]] It is the inquiry to the Government on the territorial order necessary to guarantee food sovereignty, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. And she has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, vice president... the population increase will lead to an increase in the demand for food. The land is finished and part of it is subjected to urbanizing processes. Therefore, each time we have less land and each time we need to face food demands. And every time the word appears at the time, there's a speculator who shines his eyes. There's someone here who says that we don't find ourselves in such a situation of exasperation, of poor food distribution and of poor agricultural distribution worldwide. Yeah, that's right, it's all about neoliberal policies. In any case, there is a lack of access to food, and this is always a land for speculators. In particular, from 2011 onwards, investors' funds have been earmarked for the purchase of agricultural land. Normally, agricultural funds are administered by a financial company that collects the money from different investment groups to acquire land, and then, they contact farmers on the farms or contract their management to agricultural management companies. Most of the investors in these agricultural funds are pension funds. What attracts them is the lucre. And we're in a process that's already known as the "bareness of the camp." Explains the president of the Union of Valencia's farmers that today is still maintaining the model of small and medium-sized farmers, but that they are detecting that, every time more, the funds of investment are allocated their money to buy agricultural land. The exact pandemic that he's done is to speed up this investment fever in rural farms. And, in the words of a prominent director of these foundations..., he says: « In times of inflation– precisely in times as we now find ourselves– « there is no more winning action than agriculture or water. Or some other statements: "Buy a land and make a contract to call an operator for twenty-five years. There is not much difference between offices and rustic farms. It is increasing, therefore, alarmingly the amount of funds..., as the amount of these funds that are devoted to the purchase of rustic farms. At a time when every time, on the part of the small cooperatives, of the people who hang in the territory, of people who have very interesting products to work the land, he became aware of the need for proximity products, of the free products of pesticides, we find that they are entering through the back door and very discreetly, and of the hand of the greenwashing of the European Union, all a series of great corporations, which obviously will not bring us anything good, like the country. They have neither come to make safe products nor to digitize the camp nor to equip us with efficiencies; they have come for work and enough. We don't know which figures we're talking about, because in this area it's still very opaque, but it's just reading economic journals, where analysts encourage to invest in agriculture through buying machinery or land. And I just need to talk to Lleida's pages to see what's going on. In fact, if we look at the movie Alcarrás, it shows us how our pagesia, its knowledge and the culture that has shaken our territories for centuries, can disappear for the speculation of the land. And that's not half the time, it's a reality. They are also the foundations that in their day entered the real estate market, which were presented as good floor managers, that would make there more floors to lodge, and that which they have brought to us was only misery. These came in the midst of a real-estate crisis to take over habitat, and now they come to take over land, taking advantage of the aging of agricultural activity. In a few years we will find that the majority of farmers in this country will retire, and there is no generational replenishment, because the Administration has thought nothing. And there will be some land that will be on sale and the small farmers will not be able to offer an adequate price for their purchase. What do we do? Before this scener we already have, do we do anything? Are we trying to legislate to put up with it? Do we prevent these foundations from continuing to lay clusters on cropland and arid lands, too, to deploy photovoltaic panels? Or do we expect the country to be completely unpacked, to try to do something later, a few years later, when I'm gone? Will we do anything to guarantee the food sovereignty of this country? Because the social and environmental consequences of land grabbing are extremely serious. In fact, a speculator's firm published a report a few months ago which said: "Societies go out to the field, it was explained that from seven sources of investments that there was in 2004 in the field of agriculture now had passed to three hundred. We need to protect ourselves from this problem. In fact, there are already lobbyists who demand that this law of the societies be modified precisely to eliminate the obligation of these societies that is focused on the urban real estate issue and can also act in the agricultural camp. The Territorial Policy Act of 83, in its Article 5, stated that the general territorial plan had to make some determinations, such as the definition of land used for agricultural or forestry purposes of special interest which it was intended to preserve. After having passed this general policy law of 83, it was dictated the general territorial plan of Catalonia, which did not define the land of agricultural uses; it was limited to enumerating sectoral territorial plans. And the two sectoral territorial plans were all unfolding, but obviously the land of agricultural interest has not been elaborated entirely. We wear years without having any soil conservation planning instrument, and the agricultural spaces, therefore, are out of the way. Yes, it is true that 2019 is dictated by the law of agricultural spaces, a law that leans on the advice of Councillor Jordà, of Agriculture. And this law of agricultural lands is true that it is an adventure, but we understand that it is not an adventure enough to guarantee food sovereignty, that it means economic production, access to it, quality production at fair prices, and also a access to the land just. What's going on? That neither urbanism has done dues, because all this planning that had to be done to protect the agricultural sectors we understand that it has not been done correctly, nor from this law of the agricultural sectors of 2009 either was dictated the relevant layout. We complain, given that this law of agrarian space says that this agricultural sector plan must be made out of the hands of the council in the field of territorial planning, that it obeys Vice President Puignero, that it intervenes and begins to plan and preserve all these special value onlys. And that goes further than that, because this law of agrarian thickets provides for this bank of land only for lands in disuse, but it also provides for those lands that are currently in use. But what happens, that those who are the landowners, therefore, will retire or want to pass them, and the Administration here has to act in a firm way to prevent, precisely, the entry of these voltorous foundations. And we also understand that we need to go further. And what can change, too, the law of urbanism, and do, as parameters to take into account at the time of planning the urbanism of this country, that the term of food sovereignty is a strategic element at the time of setting up any municipal planning. Because, in the same way that when there is an urban development, it is linked to that there are sufficient hydrological resources because it is possible to make a planning, so that also, when it is planned at the municipal level, it is expected that the municipality will rise in terms of food self-sufficiency. And we understand that, at present, the law of urban planning does not cover all these parameters, it does not have as an element, as this vertebrator, the food self-sufficiency, which we understand to be guaranteed, because it is a rept that we currently have on the table and that is not sufficiently resolved. Therefore, two very concrete requests: that the law of urban planning is amended to introduce the element of food sovereignty at the time of making urban planning and that the POUMs make reserves of space that guarantee the food sovereignty of the different municipalities. And, at the same time, that it is to seek formulas to prevent all those who see the rustic plots that must guarantee this food sovereignty, all those who seek these plots to speculate, from being able to form part of this area, but this area, precisely, is reserved to those farmers..., to those small farmers, because the land obviously has to be for those who work it. And because it's not a subject that's like a poetic thing, it's just that what you're looking for, precisely, is fighting against depopulation. And the only way to ensure that people continue to roam the territory and that they are fought against depopulation is, precisely, to ensure that these people, the small farmers, continue to work the land. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.3.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.4.0	Well, good morning, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. While I was listening to her, I was wondering how she had cried out to me, so let's say, to make this inquiry and not to Councilwoman Jordan. In the end, I see that you have asked some more concrete questions about the scope of the planning of the territory and of urbanism, because, I don't know..., the eighty or the number_per_cent of your intervention should surely direct you to the councilwoman responsible, precisely, for the advice of Alientation, huh? and, in this case, of this concrete area in which you have made this inquiry. In any case, if it is true that, in the end, he has made some concrete considerations in the area of urbanism that I will seek to respond to. But I think it's fair to start my intervention, first of all, what must be a debate like this, that of food sovereignty, which cannot be exclusively respectful of this subject. There are many fears today, country, that they touch directly, right? Which is the country model we want to build for our own years. And it is obvious that the subject of food sovereignty is one of them, but that it must go side by side and go, say, in a way aligned with what we want the future energy model to be, and also the energy sovereignty of our country, or also, for example, with elements of fighting against depopulation. That is to say, they are a whole series of themes that, addressing them only from the perspective of one theme, so they end up producing dysfunctions in the others, and, in fact, they end up being incompatible. And, therefore, it's a debate that I think needs to be held in its entirety, right? I'll give you an example of what I want to say so that the situation that we have at these times can be resolved. How do we keep the country from the perspective, today... respect its urban distribution? So, for example, we have to say that Catalonia currently has a set_per_cent of urban soils and that the land's norm-three_per_cent is non-urban, of which we have forty-two_per_cent of forest and twenty-three_per_cent of agriculture. Here, in addition, I would say that, of this forty-two per cent of forest area, if we compare ourselves, for example, with other European Union countries, we will see that we are the fourth country of the European Union with a higher percentage of forest area. We're only better off in Finland, Sweden and Austria. We are clearly on top of the European media. I, in addition, if we compare ourselves, for example, with a country where, as France can be, France has a 20-i-nou_per_cent forest area, right? But if we compare it with the agricultural area, then we would also see it quite as if: that the area that is destined for the agricultural area of Catalonia is a huge area, eh? , from the perspective, diguessim, of the percentage of the territory we have. And here, in addition, we should also include the whole preservation of natural spaces, which I understand must also be a policy of this country, right? I understand that we want to have areas where we protect biodiversity. And, therefore, all this cocktail, and, in this case, in the field of the protection of natural and protected spaces, which represents about thirty-three per cent of the territory of Catalonia – here, a third part of the territory of Catalonia is protected –..., if we compare it, for example, with France, the country sees, is situated in a eighth per cent. We see that, in the combination of all these factors, therefore, protection of the environment, agricultural development, fight against depopulation – so, as we also develop urban areas and the most balanced femmes in the territory – energy transition – we are clearly seeing today the price of energy..., and, moreover, if we want to advance towards the fight against climate change, we also have to be producers of green and net energy, right? ... So how do we combine all these factors? Therefore, the concept of food sovereignty cannot be treated solely from a perspective of food sovereignty. We have to deal with all these factors together. And, therefore, I hope that from your group... we, as the government, and I believe that also political groups that support the government, we understand that we need to make this task of being able to make this balance from the perspective of what the import, also, of food sovereignty means for the future of our country. And there's one element I also think... or two important elements to highlight, too, in this debate. One is the population increase. You said it. The increase in world population is important, but the increase in Catalonia is also important. The last twenty years, the people of Catalonia grew by twenty-five per cent. I don't know if we're aware of that. We moved from the 6_million inhabitants to the beginning of 2000 and today we are almost 8_million inhabitants. A growth of the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the population; we are very much above the population growth of the middle of the countries of the European Union. Therefore, this is a country that has grown. Now, what's true is that it hasn't grown up the same as everything else. There are some areas of Catalonia – not caries, but some – that have lost people. And let me refer you to who they are. We're talking, for example, about the Organyà area. And I won't talk about comarques, because if a region is sometimes deceived, because capitals grow, capitals of region, but in change people are depopulated around the capital of region. Therefore, the depopulation effect is not only respect to Barcelona, but also respect to the capital of the region, in many cases. Therefore, we are talking about urban systems that have lost people. Therefore, the most symptomatic is the case of the urban system, so to speak, of Organyà, Cardona's – I don't know if there is Cardona's mayor here – the High Garrigues, the Lower Garrigues, the Garriguenc Segrià, Flix and Ascó. These are the people who have lost their people. The rest of Catalonia, more or less – in some places more and less – has increased the population. Therefore, it is true that the issue of depopulation must be dealt with, but specifically in these areas. And we also need to talk about camp technology, to address the concept of food sovereignty. Just 'you that Holland today is..., the Low Countries are the main producers of tomato. And they do so in such an efficient and technological way that they are able, with very little land, with very little territory, to have a great production of tomato. I also put it as an example of other important elements from the perspective that it can be understood that technological sovereignty is also necessary to be able to develop these activities, right? Today we have agreed, in Europe, that we cannot leave only in the hands of Taiwan and Koreans the manufacture of xips, because today all the machines we use use xips, and without xips there are no machines, and without machines there is no economic progress in any of the sectors we want to develop, also the agri-food sector. And, therefore, I think we need to be glimpses, in other words, all of these elements. So, as you can prove, from the government we are perfectly aware that climate change obviously obliges us to mitigate climate change in various sectors, as well as now to put the debate on the subject of agricultural activity. In the near future it will also be necessary to guarantee access to food in order to guarantee health and equity in access to the most basic resources of our fellow citizens. For all this, the planning that we are developing must ensure the continuity of rural activities, thus preserving the natural, productive, social, landscape and heritage values of all the open space. And in parallel with ensuring this continuity of rural activities, since the Government of the Generality we must also seek a rapid and efficient energy transition. That is to say, we have to plan very well and agree with the people who live in the territory as we are also progressively implementing renewable energies in areas of the territory, obviously, that many of them today have an agricultural or other type of dedication. For all this, we have established the criteria of significant non-affection to high agricultural value or high agricultural interest, and we have defined the specific definition of this class of soils. In short, the Government of Catalonia's will is to make compatible the four key vectors in the immediate future of the debate that you have now raised: that of the energy needs, that of the food needs, that of the territorial and population balance – therefore, that of the generation of opportunities – and that of the preservation of biodiversity. And to do that, obviously, we have some tools. One of them has already mentioned it, which is, obviously, what was the law passed in 2019, protecting the agricultural area, and which is an instrument that, in this case, promoted the Department of Agriculture and Climate Action, in its current affairs. And, therefore, through this department we will have to see how this instrument is developed. We've got more, haven't we? Which one we're working on. One of them – you also commented –..., we are working on the new law of territories. Therefore, the new law of territories will be of use in which the guidelines to be dealt with in the conjunction of the elements I have mentioned before must be said. As we also have the new general territorial plan of Catalonia, that we will put ourselves to work soon as well. And, in any case, in my reply, I will try to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.5.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.6.0	Vice-President, you're quite right that it's an inquiry that goes to the Agriculture Council. And precisely to us is generated this debate, to which we should devote the inquiry, but precisely we believe – and this is said with all due respect – that there is a bit of lack of coordination or of working together and in a fold with the agriculture council. And this inquiry was a place where... one of the things that I did in my intervention is to make manifest that we find ourselves in an emergency situation, in need of imperatives. And, therefore, you have to put down the batteries and start working urgently. And this land law says that a whole series of planning has to be done, that it is this land sector plan, and this land sector plan has to be done from Agriculture, but also from Territories. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, with what? That's it. He says he's gonna have to coordinate with the territorial planning department, which is his department. Therefore, we want to ask them urgently that there is not enough to say that we are working with the new law of territories, that we are working... but that immediate answers are needed. And, therefore, it was necessary to make this inquiry addressed to his office so that the urgency and the need for it to put thread to the needle were clear. I was pleased that you made reference in your intervention in France. Above all I liked it because you made reference to some things, but it would also be very interesting to see what France is doing with the issue of land purchase, something that is not being done at our house. France precisely takes into account all the problems that exist with these investors who are landing to speculate on agricultural land and are making very active policies at the time of acquiring land to preserve this agricultural land and to give its management to those small farmers who are directly dedicated to working the land. We would therefore be pleased if you would take the example of France to start basing the country on sovereignty. For what you say about technology, yes, obviously the word "technification," "digitalization of the field, will be the mantra that we will see that has been repeated persistently over the next few years. And precisely the companies that will come to us to sell their ability to digitise, to tech, to manage efficiency, will be precisely these businesses that are bogged down by these investors, bogged down by this greenwashing. And we must be alert, loving, and not fall into the trap of always, to constantly appeal to these ideas of technology, but this technology must be achieved that precisely those who work the earth and those who precisely, as I said before, will avoid depopulation. Also in your intervention you spoke that obviously you have to work for a significant non-affection of agrarian soils. Mirin, they make me a lot for, honestly, when they add adjectives to the words, to the names. Because you say "no significant, clear affect"... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, then, as always, we will see this word, "significant, until we go. And nothing, basically tell them that, as I said, we are in a difficult situation that requires courageous measures and that needs to reformulate the law of urbanism, a law that leans on its council. And we place him in place to make all those relevant modifications to ensure that the municipalities of this country enjoy self-sufficiency in food, which will be the only way to face the years that will come to us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.7.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Jordi Puignero, once again holds the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.8.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In short, the Department of Territories, obviously, touches all the councils, coordinates all the councils, because we are responsible for the planning of the territory, both from the environmental perspective and from the industrial perspective. So, if you spoke to Councillor Torrent at the time of developing, in this case, the industrial activity of the country, at the end you would also end up in this consultancy. Therefore, it could come, say, to make all the inquiries respect all the departments, because there is always, in the end, a territorial implication, in the field of urban planning. In any case, it is true that the impulse of policies corresponds to the departments, and we coordinate with all of them, obviously, as it could not be in any other way, and also in this matter, relating to food sovereignty. But, as you quite rightly said, in this case the law of protection in the field of agricultural areas is a law that in this case pushed the Department of Agriculture, in a collaborative way, obviously with this department, and we will work together with its department to make some of the issues that you have mentioned in the development of this law effective. But there are other things that we are deploying from the Department of Territories with this objective. Miri, the law of territories, obviously, is one of them. We have it at a very advanced stage, and obviously we take into account all the questions that you have commented on, and also the motion that can come out of this department, if there is, obviously, a motion behind this question, which I imagine it will be, right? Therefore, this is an element. Also – I have already said – the new general territorial plan of Catalonia, which will integrate the seven territorial plans. It's also another one of the instruments and tools we have to deal with. But I insist, huh? , holistically. So here we have to see what model of country we want, as a combination of food sovereignty and energy transition, fighting against depopulation, and protecting natural spaces. We can't only address all these elements from one perspective, can we? Also tell him that we have already approved, in this case...Finally – I'm sorry – there is the whole issue of the deployment of the sectoral territorial renewables plan, which is driving Climate Action, and which emanates from what was the decree or the recent approval of the decree of the law of renewables. It's also another of the instruments there is in this sense. And, finally, let me also say: in the last presumption of the Generality, through the law of measures, the law of follow-up to the presumption, this Government has approved five precisely intended measures – claims of ugly long time from the rural world – to help to what you said as an endemic evil, so to speak, of depopulation or of non-continuity of the activity of the pagery or of the branch, say, in many areas of Catalonia. And there are two or three very concrete measures. One of them, for example, was so simple that the children of an agricultural producer who wanted to continue the activity did not have the opportunity to make the house in the land where the activity is, and therefore they had to live with the parents, and therefore this limited the continuity of the activity. Well, that's what we've solved with the measurement bill, and so that's corrected. As well as four more measures to encourage, precisely, what must be an activity in the rural world, the agricultural activity that we want to preserve, precisely, in order to be able to continue guaranteeing or to be able to guarantee better food sovereignty in the future. There is also another instrument that you have commented, which is the subject of POUMs. As you well know, the POUMs make them the municipalities. Therefore, it is in the municipality – through, therefore, local sovereignty – where, to put it this way, it is necessary to boost these types of initiatives that you have defended here in Parliament today. It is true that this will obviously end up in the planning committees, but above all here there is a municipal impulse to determine how you want to order, specifically in the more part of the municipality, this type of activity. And, finally, look, these past five years, I'm saying because you're often making a speech that, in other words, we're just deprecating the territory, right? So let's give him a given: these last five years has reduced the urbanizable soil in Catalonia in thousands of hectares. Mill_hectares is more or less the size of the city of the Hospital, huh? Therefore, it is not true that we in Catalonia are depredating the territory; on the contrary, I believe that there has been and there is awareness for the future of protection for other uses, in this non-urban case, of the territory, and here too there would be the agricultural part, but also the protection of the environment, etcetera, that the government and the joint venture of the Catalan society, therefore, have a lot present. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.9.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about lawsuits as guarantors of the justice service of proximity]] [[300-00186/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the lawsuits of pau as guarantors of the justice of proximity, that has presented the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Pere Albó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.10.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. The truth is, it's a goig to be here defending this proposal to defend the lawsuits. As you know, the organic law of organizational efficiency of the public justice service, which threatens to enter into force on the 1st generation of 2023, has put this figure on hold, which is intended to replace, and is intended to replace for a..., well, for career officers who will already be integrated into the new city justice office that will be created. To begin with, it has to be said that it is always contradictory that a law that calls itself with this organizational pump "of the public and efficiency service, therefore, placed for the elimination of this figure of the pau jutjats at the time you say you are trying to apply alternative measures of conflict resolution, huh? Those of us who know the pau jutjats know the great task that, as mediators, precisely, they do to the places where they work, and, therefore, as an alternative conflict resolution measure tool, they are a real part where they work. You know – it has been commented later – that there are currently 898 jutjats of pau in Catalonia. In the rest of the state there are no set_mil, pau jutjats. Thus, it seems clear that this measure particularly affects Catalonia. Ninety-five per cent of the municipalities of Catalonia have been judged by pau, and, as you know, where there is no first instance judgment and instruction there is a pau judgment. They are, therefore, the element of the Administration of Justice most territorially in Catalonia. Moreover, I believe that, as it is more correct to present them, it is said that if the Administration of Justice is in the territory it is thanks to the justices of the poor and thanks to the justices of the poor. So, it's a proximity tool, it's a tool, as I said before, for mediation, but it's a tool above all for proximity. Before we talk about the depopulation, in the previous inquiry, and the suppression of the pau jutjats, obviously, it will be a step further in this hardship that afflicts the most modest peoples of our country. Because we understand or to delve into what makes a pau jutjat, I found very nice a news release in the digital TV3, of the Telenews of Catalonia Radio, in the digital of the corporation, that posed two examples that I carry here. One, in Bellaguarda, where the judge of pau, who is said Gloria Mateu, who is twenty-and-seven years old, explains what its function is, what it does, and for which it collects a hundred euros, explains the news. For example, he explains that he celebrates marriages, processes citations, notifications of jutjats, and resolves conflicts between veins. He said: "These are the classic attributions given to the pau jutjats. He said: "Generally, in the rural area we treat step-by-step services between farms of two farmers or disputes between tenants and tenants, and many doubts that are not resolved by criminal and civil means, but sit down at the same table and talking. That's what every day makes fool's judgments. For example, he also explained this news that, in Mollerussa, Josep Maria de les Ses, who is a pre-retired banker, is making a fool of himself, and that every year he deals with a number of conflicts like those that, for example, we have previously explained. Talk about conflicts, so... we're talking about very concrete conflicts, a very concrete mediation and a very concrete profile of public service. Why am I commenting on this? So it's obvious that the loss of pau jutjats would also mean the loss of an identity element and a form of being. In the municipalities of our country, jutge, jutgesa de pa, is synonymous with dialogue, talking, mediating, making these tasks that are commented on, resolving conflicts, maintaining coexistence. The one your name indicates, huh? They're agents who lay sticks. This proximity is a guarantee of success. Many of the expeditions that start are resolved thanks to this action, this philosophy of action, and many conflicts, therefore, are resolved thanks to this way of hearing their public service. That's why, as it is, in a way, less like this figure..., it shows, in my opinion, until what is needed is a deep conviction at the time to help our smaller municipalities – and non-metropolitan areas, even if I would say so. The elimination of pau jutges is a further attack on the local world's competitions, first of all. It supposes a mentality, if I may be allowed the word, "politicanocentric areameter, which continues to buid the most modest cities and towns. And, besides, perhaps in the cruelest way, which is, therefore, out of ignorance of reality, which leads to the absolute lack of empathy for this, right? Simply, this measure is taken because it did not think of the small municipalities as places of coexistence, but as spaces where we take a picture of the week's end and click on the Instagram. I heard the councilwoman say she was talking about cock jutjats like the headmistress. I was comparing them, wasn't I? I, in this sense, to the headmaster's meths seem to me to also be 'lsanomena' specialists in family and community medicine. Indeed, they may also say that they are specialists, that they are midwives in the field of justice, that they are community specialists in the field of justice, but this specialty, with the saying, is less widespread. The Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Catalan Federation of Municipalities have come out in defense of this figure. Another example, because we have an idea, is the judicial party of Tremp, which encompasses three districts. Up to the first-instant judge there's an hour of car, because in public transport there's three hours to get there. These realities are ignored; they simply are ignored. For another band, there's a factor that I think is determining, too, that we assign. Poor judges have a democratic component to emphasize, and when we don't value it, somehow we're, unfortunately, making our justice less democratic. The fact that the courts of law are chosen by the municipal court should be one more reason to keep them, to believe in them, to deepen in them and, therefore, to invest in them. I think that, quite simply, this note in this case goes against them, and it is regrettable and must be denounced. Disappearing pau jutjats is, as I say, a serious fact because of the proximity motivator he was commenting, because of the depth motivator of a justice every more democratic time he was commenting, and it also represents, without a doubt, a reduction in self-government and an attack on competition and on what the State of Autonomy establishes. Article 108, without any interpretation to be made, establishes that the Generality has jurisdiction over the justice of the law. And, in this sense, you're competent to establish proximity measures, huh? It is to say, here, the Generalitat..., well, this Statute, which we were told so much, at least this was contemplated. Therefore, it seems that this way of approving, therefore, without any type of consultation, this modification, is also an obvious attempt against this autonomy, eh? , and against our statutory powers; even though we seem much smaller, not so alone in this point are respected. Therefore, the defense attached to this figure is vital. And finally, thank all the judges for the work they do as mediators, the work they do to their offices, all the years they're doing so well, and we hope they can keep doing it. Thank you very much. Long live justice and justice. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.11.0	It has the word, to give answer to the inquiry, the Councillor of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.12.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, Councillor Giró... Well, you, Member, have explained very well what we have been doing here today, with this inquiry. He has explained very well who are, therefore, the motivations that make us defend the figure of the yoke with this vehemence. You know, because the deputy also said so, and because you know it, that the law of organizational efficiency is being processed by the ministry, and, for what it does to the judgments, from Catalonia we have to put a very determined emphasis on it. Let's call it receptivity, huh? At the time of being able to listen to what are the problems that will cause the fact that this important figure disappears. Before anything else, I would like to greet the members of the Catalan Association in Pro de la Justicia who today accompany us here in this plenary, and to whom we also take advantage of the advent to gratify the work that they do of representativeness as the only agglutinating association of the jutges de pa de Catalunya. Therefore, thank you for being there and for the work you did in representing the judgments. We say, therefore, that the figure of justice in Catalonia is a figure that is highly valued. The deputy explained all the work they do. It's a close-up job. It's a knowledge-based job. It is a work based on the perspective they have from the immediateness of the territory. What do you mean? That what they claim to be the current law is to change this figure and change it for the municipal justice offices. As Mr Albó explained, a pau jutge intervened above all in the small municipalities. Miri, jo soc de un municipi de noranta-sis habitants, Capafonts. Capafonts has a pau jutge, like many others. Gisclareny in tea twenty-i-sis; has a pau jutge – or a jutgessa, in this case. They're people who act in the territories. And hardly Capafonts or Gisclareny can afford a city justice office. Why? So why isn't there enough business like there's a city justice office. A city justice office that is expected to be covered by a career officer. A career officer who 'calls the square out of Catalonia and to whom can choose from a person from Talamanca to a person from Salamanca. Therefore, neither Capafonts nor Gisclareny nor any of these municipalities are guaranteed to see their place covered by a person in this municipality. A person who today acts, as the Member has said, with a few hundred euros of remuneration, but with all the dignity that ensures coexistence in his municipality. To carry this figure of the justice of pau what it will do is to go, the citizens of these small viles, to resolve the controversies to the municipal office of justice more like, that it is often found at a little distance of kilometers, but for endimonial paths, without public transport, and that, moreover, they claim to be pal·liar that there are these journeys through the digitalization of justice, when mostly in these towns and cities live...,, povable and vile, better said, there are great people living, with an accused digital Brittany. Therefore, what we are doing, short and short, is to extend the justice of these people. That is why we claim that this specificity must be taken into account in the new law of order and organization of justice and modernisation. Eight hundred forty-seven justices and justices from across the country are doing this job. And obviously the fan differs in a small village of a village like Sant Cugat, which can have noranta_mil inhabitants; possibly Sant Cugat will be able to allow this city office of justice. So we need to match these figures. Another issue that matters to us and which is no less is that it will not escape that this rearrangement sees no economic endowment, as it cannot otherwise be, when the perspective is put from the State. Therefore, as we have the skills in the public justice service, these municipal offices, which are supposed to go to the town halls or, in any case, to the autonomous community, will increase the assumption that we will be destined to implement a service that will extend the service of the citizenry. So, we'll do a round-the-clock business. And, in addition, they claim that all this is done on a maximum date of July 1, 2023. I'm telling you, this is very and very difficult. Therefore, what can happen – and I dare to venture it – is that we will be left without one thing or the other. I think we need to do a receptivity exercise on the part of the ministry, an adaptability exercise. Because I want to put in value that last June 3rd was a day of study and analysis by all the operators of justice in Catalonia – lawyers, prosecutors, judiciary, professionals – in relation to the two laws being processed, the law of efficiency and the law of organization. On this day it was evident the importance of maintaining the figure of pau jutge and pau jutjat in the new model of organizational law. It is a unanimous position of the sector in Catalonia. We see how the fact that this 20_per_cent of today's liabilities is settled in the pau courts of our country..., 20_per_per_cent of the liabilities of the total accounted for, because there are no accounts of those explained by the Member of the European Parliament who may be settled by making a coffee or perhaps a little money or a little tape. Therefore, this twenty per cent, and more, will end up making the judgments and judgments of instantice, instruction, or the new offices that the new law provides. And, therefore, they will increase the volume of work that will be done at the trial that they plan to create. As you see, they're disadvantageous. They're tools that allude to the justice of the citizenry. And what I would also like to remember is that..., to reiterate, more clearly, is that the fact that the current profile of justice is not the one that I occupy this square – therefore, profile of the municipality –, but that it is conditioned by an opposition to work..., already tell them that there will now be many places that will be vacant, and, therefore, it will not be the adequate coverage or the proper service that are currently being provided by these offices of pau of the municipalities and of the vile smallest of Catalonia. A way to get in the way of... in favor of... is to go in favour of depopulation. Therefore, he is wary of territorial cohesion and of fighting against this depopulation. Because extending the figures of the pau jute helps to extend a necessary service, a cohabitation service, a day-to-day service, and a service that is rendered in a disinterested and community-helping way. There is no judge or judge who says that his service is not useful or that it was time that he was replanted. We're finding land grabs. Everyone claims this way of sharing justice with others. Therefore, ask for this sensitivity at the time to approach this reform. Put the emphasis that we cannot extend the justice of the smallest and vile peoples, because we will delve into the bretxa also of the great people, who do not have access to the new technologies. And, finally, advocate that there be no place for you to function..., those who occupy these places of pau jutges in the municipalities of Catalonia. There are 848 people in the service of proximity justice, in the service of mediation and, therefore, in the service of coexistence and territorial cohesion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.13.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Government inquiry into public procurement]] [[300-00185/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about public contract, which the Socialist and Unites Parliamentary Group presented for Progress. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.14.0	Thank you, President. Advisors, MPs, MPs... Public contracting is a key tool for effective and strategic implementation of different public policies. It has a recognized importance in most of the world's countries for its direct and indirect contribution to economic growth and job creation. The undeniable importance, from the economic perspective, of public procurement must be borne in mind, not only because of the fact that it relates to GDP and its strategic nature as a tool for developing public policies, but also because its good functioning facilitates the evaluation of an adequate execution of public expenditure in an efficient manner. In Spain, this economic recovery is evident in the measure that during 2020 the level of expenditure on public contracts accounted for 11.4_percent of gross domestic product and 21.8_percent of total public expenditure, as reflected in the Government at Glance 2021 published for the OECD. In one year, I would say, in which the total public expenditure amounted to 58,1_percent of GDP, with a xifra of 580,000_million euros. In this sense, public procurement is a key factor in the economy; an economy in which the public sector has advanced in the past few years as a consequence of the pandemic and public policies that are ultimately front-loaded, and in which public procurement has developed and continues to develop a key role. From the perspective of the distribution of public expenditure in contract between the different administrations, the year 2020 the autonomous public sector was the major promoter of tenders, with an import – in economic import –..., with a 37,59_per_cent, even though to a lesser extent the number of consignments, which were to be 34,5_per_cent. The State public sector was of the three sectors which called for both the lowest number of calls for tenders and the lowest number of economic volumes in relation to GDP, and the public sector set aside 31.4_percent of the import of tenders in relation to gross domestic product. The standard mark we have at these times indicates that the basic rule regarding public contract is Law 9/2017, of 8 November, of contracts of the public sector, by which the directives of the Parliament and the Council of 2014 were transposed into Spanish legal order. This law came into force on March 2018. Notwithstanding this – that this is the basic legislation, derived, I insist, from the transposition of European legislation –, from the point of view of our normative capacity, the Government of Catalonia..., the State of Catalonia regulates the competence of the Generality in matters of public contract. In this way, Article 159.3 establishes that it corresponds to the Generality, in relation to the contracts of the public administrations of Catalonia, "the exclusive competence on organization and competitions in matters of contracting of the organs of the public administrations, and "the shared competence in all that is not attributed to the exclusive competence of the Generality of the previous paragraph. Although, therefore, the State allows the development of its own legislation in the matter of contracting within the defined jurisdictional limits, the Generality has not developed the legal remedy that the rule allows. In addition, the same law of the law of contracts of the public sector allows the autonomous communities to develop all aspects of this law that is not considered basic legislation. There is, therefore, a political responsibility to exaggerate and exercise with self-requirement those skills that we have, more than the need to regulate sectorally, and above all strategically, the public contract in the framework of the Generality, we understand that it is an unbreakable need. At these times there are various areas in which it is..., or, according to the government plan and the government's normative plan, it is proposed to develop legislative initiatives that may include contract-related matters. In concrete terms, the law of the third social sector, the law of the social economy, the law of contracts of service to persons, and are still pending to define the intentions of the Government in the matter of the law of concertation in the field of health. This dispersion, we understand, can end up drawing a fractional standard framework and dispersals in contract matter that prevents, in addition, equipping this basic and foundational instrument for the development of public policies with a strategic view and alignment with the strategic objectives of the joint. Until today, the Generalitat, in the absence of a law of contracts of Catalonia, has implemented its policy in the matter of contracting by means of legislation without law rank, without legal rank, through instructions, directives, legal reports and agreements of the Government. In this sense, the March 2020 agreement, in which the objectives and the minimum content of the Catalan public contract strategy were approved, in which the promotion of the contract in peppers, the promotion of environmental measures, the promotion of social measures and the promotion of innovative measures, are reflected. All these measures, however, do not – I insist, I insist – have a character or standard rank, but they are articulated, as I said, by means of instructions, guidelines, codes and reports. We do not have a single standard with a law rank that orders and drives in a manner that links the strategic objectives in the contract matter. And we are precisely asking him to do this, to promote a law of public contract in Catalonia that gives him a standard status of law, which is a single rule, in order to avoid a legal dispersion in the matter of contract that can lead to an undesirable sectoral disparity of criteria or between different departments. We know that the contract law that forms part of its plan of government has also the standard plan 21-23, and that it is previewed the public consultation and the initiation of the processing for the second half of the year. But there is also the law of the third social sector, the law of solid economy, while, without appearing in these documents, there is still a way to resolve, as I said, the regulation of contracts of services to persons, which was tried in the last legislature through the name of "Aragonese law", and there is also a way to regulate the concertation in the health field, where, certainly, in both cases it is possible to say that this situation is precarious, supporting the situation of hundreds or thousands of agreements and concerts – in the health field a substantial amount of services provided to the Siscat network is not precisely implemented in the social context – by putting the first transitional clause of the Law 5/2008, while the rules are not incorporated in the health sector, but rather in the context of the specific rules of the health sector. We believe – and we place all the emphasis, therefore, on this inquiry – that it is desirable and appropriate to have a single contract rule. And we believe that it is not just a regulatory need, but – and above all – an opportunity for social and economic transformation in Catalonia. An opportunity to develop this law through, we believe, mechanisms to promote and facilitate access of the peppers to the public contract of the Catalan public sector, focusing on those aspects that allow the simplification of the information obligations to the bidder, the general obligation of the division of lots with the object of the contract, the proportionality of the solvency criteria required according to the object, the technical dimensions and complexity of the contract, and the encouragement in the incorporation of the promotion clauses of the subcontracting to peppers of social or innovative character. And a_mark that takes advantage of the opportunities of public-private collaboration to serve the interests of the Administration and the citizenry. I insist, not externalisation for outsourcing from the false, we understand, apriorism of who manages better or worse, but from the perspective that the public assumption is limited and can work with the private sector in the assimilation of objectives to the service of people, and therefore of public policies. By also increasing the range of environmental and social clauses which are favourable to incorporating, I insist, these clauses which are payable to the tenderers at all stages of the contract, which must be monitored and required, from the selection of tenderers to the execution, the possibility of excluding a procedure, the rebuking of an offer or the termination of a contract already awarded in the event of non-fulfilment of those clauses. Also through measures to promote innovation in public procurement that are dispersed in different regulations, directives, codes of practical good, to give legal certainty to operators and to optimise the functioning of public services, achieving greater efficiency in spending. And finally, also by amending the criteria, requirements and specific rules in the selection of providers for health and social services, for primary care, for social care, for mental health and for drug addiction, etc., clarifying the boundaries between contractual and non-contractual forms of management – this is what it does for a few moments, for the whole package of agreements and concerts, both in the field of services to people as in the health field. Therefore, the basis of our inquiry, Mr Counselor, is the extent to which it is initiated and developed with the highest celerity that we understand to be priorities, which is the development of the law of contracts of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.15.0	Then, in the turn of the answer, has the word the Councillor of Economy and History, the Lord Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.16.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Mr Riba, I sincerely thank you for this inquiry and acknowledge the effort your party has made at the time of preparing the background document for a law of contracts in Catalonia. I read it with interest, and the first thing I want to tell you is that the data and the axes you're sending us today are generally consistent with those that the government has taken into consideration for the duration of the set of actions that I'm going to explain to you all along. So, before anything else, we're on the same line. The plan of government that marks the working horizons for this legislature provides – and I literally read – « to provide Catalonia with a strategic and legislative framework for public procurement that simplifies processes and sets social, labour and environmental criteria. This objective must be achieved with two actions: the adoption of a Catalan law of public contract and the deployment of the best strategy of public purchase in Catalonia. Voldria spoke to him today about the two initiatives. Let's start with the first one, the contract law. I can inform you today that, at the length of this same month of June, I will present to the Government for its approval the preliminary memorandum of the preliminary draft, so that we can hold the consultation process during the next month of July. In parallel to this public consultation process, we intend to speak with directly involved agents, such as business organisations, social entities, trade unions and municipal authorities. We want it to be a widely agreed law, and I am sure that during the parliamentary process we can enrich it with contributions from your party and other parties. In any case, I can advance you that, thanks to a splendid work for its rigour and for its depth of the Directorate-General for Public Contracts, we have just outlined a preliminary draft of which we would like, of which we want it to be a politically ambitious law. In line with what you ask, Mr Riba, I assure you that our vocation is to establish a legislative framework that follows the reference, that follows the umbrella for public contract in Catalonia at all levels and in all senses. The foreground project, as I said, will be ambitious. And I would like to highlight four aspects that will make reference in this sense. The first is transparency – transparency. The Generalitat can assume, from many years ago, legitimately, that it is a transparent administration. I would say that in this apartment, we are ahead of the State Administration. And with this we'll take a step forward in this sense. The second aspect: to take advantage of the capacity of the public sector to draw the economy. That's very important. I want to remember one element that is often overlooked: the economic activity of the Public Administration, including education, sanitation and social services, represents 16.3_percent of the GDP of the whole country – 16.3. And I remind you, too, that public procurement accounts for thirty per cent of the total expenditure of the Administration. A couple more dice. During this year 2022, the Generalitat will sign more than 5,500 contracts for a total import of 7,300_million euros. By the way, and making an incis, these services will assume the largest volume of contract that has been made so far in the field of information technologies, which take away most of these figures that I have just commented on. And I think this is a good sign, a sign of our country's modernization. In summary, therefore, the public sector is a very important player in the country's economy. And it is decided, in this sense, to be able to count on the legal coverage that allows us to implement measures of access to the public tender that await the economic and productive activity of the entire business fabric of the country. The third point, very much related to the previous one: take advantage of this economic paper to design a strategic model of contracting in such a way that we can set priorities for the country and support the policies that we consider most pre-eminent. It is, in short, a very simple thing to do: to be able to do politics from the point of view of the contract. For example, promoting innovation, promoting equality, environmental sustainability or the participation of the third sector's peppers and entities. The fourth point, which seems especially important to me: the opportunity that gives us this law so that we can take a step forward in the improvement and simplification of the contracting processes. We all know that the Administration must be exemplary in the compliment of the legal formalities and that the administrative constraints are more extensive and narrow in our case, in everything that refers to the Public Administration, than with private entities. But this doesn't have to be an obstacle, but an incentive to take advantage of the power of the new technologies and provide a_marc of contracts that is simple, quick, easy to hear and manage. I told him that, in addition to the law, the Government is also proposing to deploy a strategy of better public procurement to Catalonia. If I may, I'll make five cents of this strategy. It is a four-year program where the development of a contract law is not an important tape, but not the only one. This plan is fixed strategic objectives that are deployed with operational objectives and land them in a concrete way, as I think it should be – concrete – with data and with concrete steps, with a calendar. This allows various lines of work and actions to go deeper into it until the year 2025. That is to say, in addition to the law, we will implement concrete measures, as I said, to improve the speed of the proceedings, which is the complaint that I find the most when I go through the territory and the most painful – and the most painful –; we need to speed up the work that the Administration of the Generality does. Two, ensure the quality of the goods and services contracted. Three, collect public, social and environmental policies. Four, protect the integrity and transparency of public procurement. And all that, to make life simpler and easier for the city and local administrations. This strategy was approved two months ago by the Consultative Board of Public Contracts of Catalonia, and is currently pending approval by the Local Government Commission. It is my intention to present it to the government as soon as this process is resolved. Mr. Riba, the government is perfectly aware of the importance of public contract, and that is why we are committed to going beyond the drafting of a law. We want, as I said, that the economic activity of the public sector is a strategic engine for the deployment of government policies. And if we get out of it, as I'm sure it will be, I reckon, Mr Riba, that we will have your support and that of your parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.17.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we celebrate hearing your words. And, indeed, they can dispose of our cooperation and ours, let us say, help in the parliamentary process in the absolute not only of the norm, but of the objectives that have just been explained, which are perfectly compatible and perfectly assimilated with those that, as at least at the level of announcement or definition, we have commented. Counselor, all the standards and laws of this Parliament are important, but surely few have the capacity to influence by means of a single rule – and I will insist on this concept of one rule – in the economic and social transformation of the country. As I said at the beginning of my first intervention, public procurement represents about a doze_per_cent of the country's economy– it is true, among all administrations– but more than two-thirds between the Generality and local administrations. Therefore, it is difficult to conceive the possibility that an economic sector of similar magnitude is without a regulation that strategically oriented its functioning, its objectives..., its participation, in short, in the economy of the country and contributed to the joint and collective well-being. That is why, above all, I want to focus and insist on opportunity – this concept of opportunity that offers us this standard, to elaborate this standard – and the transformative potential of this standard, which is enormous. The ability to influence the product model, which, with the large number of providers in the Administration, has certain characteristics or ways of iron in the medium-environmental, social, labor or non-maintenance..., is suitable, and is an opportunity to influence and accelerate that has and has these characteristics. That, by means of batch configuration, or a correct and appropriate configuration of access requirements to tenders and the agility of these, as you yourself have just said, or not, easy access to pimes, cooperatives, non-profit entities, is basic and conditions and determines the structure of our product model. That we bet for innovation by mitting the mechanisms that are foreseen or that can be predicted, better said, and developing through this law by mitting the innovative purchase is or can be a very important catalyst for a further development of innovation in Catalonia. Besides, we don't know everything, we don't want to know everything: it's often problems or challenges that we have defined but we don't have the right solutions yet, and innovative shopping can be a vector of innovation in camps like the environment, mobility and many others. From the standard framework of the European directives and the law on public contracts, we must also be able to establish mechanisms, which speed up the contract procedures, as you have just said, by maintaining, of course, all the guarantees of transparency and netness in the contract. We need to evolve, as the contracting experts say, from a vision of public contract purely administrative or bureaucratic towards a strategic vision, with the contracting as an instrument to the public policy service, pursuing excellence in services – so, before people in the first instance – to excellence in processes – let us say this, reducing or limiting bureaucracy to what is strictly necessary – and technical excellence in these processes, in these contracting policies. So, let's just say, we're in this process of legislative drafting. Let's re-place this rule as unique and align the strategic objectives in the contract matter of the Government of Catalonia. And we hope that all the pleas will result in the benefit of these strategic objectives that we have stated. We agree with you, counselor, as I do, on behalf of our group. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.19.0	And also, in the turn of the reply, has the words of the Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.20.0	Mr. Riba, president, deputies and deputies... Mr. Riba, I will respond briefly. For what he does to the law, it's an opportunity, as you said, and he can be sure of two things. The first is that the text will have the vocation of being, as I said before, the standard of reference for all public contracting policies. And that includes what can be done in this sense from every department of the Generality. We do not want to make an overly restrictive text or to prevent there from being enough room for manoeuvre as it is possible to develop specific sectoral regulations within the competences of each council or level of the Administration, but the new law does have to establish a basis and general principles of action that will be respected when the Catalan public sector signs contracts with the different economic agents. Therefore, first thing: the vocation of the law of paraigua, a law of paraigua. The second thing you can be sure of, Mr Riba: this new law will look for the contract formulas that allow us to offer, at a later stage, the best services to the citizen. Believe that our priority in writing the text will be exactly that. We would not subject the welfare of the citizens to a certain contract model, but we would subject the contract model to the welfare of the citizens. Today, even without the law, we have a medium level of competition of six tenders for each award. The competition is an indicator of the confidence that the agents of the society have in the Generality and allows us to allocate resources in a more efficient way. And this is an act we don't have to lose. I am in favour of opening the doors of the contract to any economic agent who guarantees us, with his offer of services or benefits, precisely what I just said to him a moment ago: that the resources are assigned with the maximum efficiency and that they allow us to optimize the positive impact on the citizenry. Does this mean that we will not take into account criteria such as sustainability, social responsibility, proximity or territorial relationship? No, on the contrary. These and other factors will be incorporated into the law and will be very much taken into account. Does this mean that we will only take into account criteria such as sustainability, social responsibility, proximity or land-relatedness? No, these criteria will be necessary, but they will not be sufficient. The main contract criteria will have to be, and will be, the performance of the service or the provision of the good with excellent quality levels and with fair and adjusted prices. I insist, a few prices adjusted, but also fair. Mr Riba, you, I, and I believe that all the Members of this House agree with the importance of providing us with a law governing public procurement. I trust that in the next few months we will all be on the rise and we will be able to draft a text that, the text, itself, is on the rise of citizens and economic agents who expect us to make this law and do it well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.21.0	Let's get to the top of the agenda: the government's inquiry into fiscal balances and the investment deficit, which was presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Inquiries to the Government on tax balances and investment deficits]] [[300-00187/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Giró, deputies, deputies, good morning. Catalonia has been abused for centuries by the Spanish State. General Espartero said that when he said that Barcelona had to be bombarded with at least every 50 years. Now the bombings have turned into fucking shots, into pressures and threats because the companies are moved to other locations, but above all – above all – into a premeditated underfunding and continued over time. More than thirty years ago, there are published fiscal balances, and all, absolutely all, coincide in a xifra, a constant: the eighth_per_cent of GDP, up, down. That's the handicap we're suffering from back in the year, and it's already over thirty. This, today, supposes the order of 20,000_million euros per year. This is a full-fledged discrimination against Catalans and breaks the constitutional mark, but we know that any late-offranist court like we have will recognize it. Article 14 of the Constitution says that Spaniards are equal before the law, but we know that for the governments of the State the Catalans have not been Spaniards for a long time. Don't treat us like the rest of the communities. In any democratic country, with fair courts, the successor governments of the State of the past thirty years would have been accused to fail the Constitution. In fact, we already like that they don't consider us Spanish, but what we don't accept is that we're still second-hand citizens. The State discriminates against us by reason of relevance, to all those who live in Catalonia, to Deltebre, to Viella, Cadaqués or Badalona; independent voters, socialists or faixism. We all suffer from a lack of resources and clearly inadequate infrastructure. President Puigdemont said this week to Algerians: the State is applying one to them economically, as it did at the time one to them police and judicial. And the result, in terms of the execution of the infrastructure assumption, we just saw it this week: thirty-sis_per_cent in Catalonia, 184_per_cent Madrid. Now, if we talk about trains, lords of the commons, to you that they like them so much and that to us too, the one that they have incomplete... Renfe has completed thirty-five percent of the execution in Catalonia and a 229 percent in Madrid. And if we're talking about high-speed Adif, he's completed a five-per-cent in Catalonia and a hundred-per-cent in Madrid. So, President Sanchez already has the memory, it's already the most incomplete in assumptions and investments, the worst in twenty years. We don't like each other, but, listen, we have a calm conscience: we didn't vote for President Sánchez. And, in fact, we don't think we should vote for any other investiture or any other assumption of the Spanish president until he pays the debts he has with us in advance. Proud of promises; while we're following Spain, now we've got to charge in advance. In fact, he hasn't paid the third addition to the Statute yet. Still owes us 3,000_million euros. Tot just now the Councillor Giró has managed to unscrew the 2008 debt. This is more proof, more proof, that the government discriminates Catalonia, because, if not, why could the radials of Madrid be rescued? There was money for this. Why did Florentino pay the beaver's compensation? There was-there was money for this. And, on the other hand, fourteen years later, there's no money to pay the third addition to the Statue. So that's just why you, the PSOE, the PSC, are acting against the Catalans, and, more importantly, doing it the way the PP did and also with the help of Podemos. What we know is that in the last 20 years in Catalonia only once completed the implementation of the cent_per_cent, and it was 2012 with a Rajoy government. In change, the Zapatero government has never surpassed the norma_per_cent. And, obviously, the Sanchez, still much worse: the thirty-sis_per_cent. Therefore, Mr. Gallego, when you come out here and say that you are much better a government of the PSC or the PSOE with We can, please, don't lie to the citizen. Prepare for interventions before going out to the Faristol, because it is deceiving the people who in good faith voted for them. And speaking of deception, Mr. Illa, last week, says that the result of the PP government is true that there is a deficit of investment in Catalonia. But, listen to me, what bar, what noses, but if you have done so much worse... And Sanchez is the worst of history. How can you say that? As Mr. Illa may say, that you want to be president of the Generality, these lies? Can you tell me that? And that affects the welfare of the people; it affects the harm served by the rollers – why do you see that, huh? –; affects fatal accidents to unduplicated lanes – it also sees this – contamination to not have a public service of quality – it also sees this – costs to not have infrastructures that make businesses more competitive – it also sees this – and the autonomes, which they have had to pay for thousands of euros for years to highways..., for years or decades – it also sees this. And what these kinds of events do is absolutely entrepreneurship and it's an insult to Catalans and Catalans. And, before yesterday, President Sanchez, let's go back: how can I say there's a fifty-set_per_cent failure? That... they know he's lying. What Mr. Sanchez doesn't know is complete, and that's why he's lying. And we already know that these lies don't come from now. In fact, do they remember the event of the year 2000, the first great event? Seven-hundred_ thousand people complain about the state of infrastructure. We've already complained that we've been carrying years wrongly, 2007. And, Socialists, remember Mr Ernest Lluch? Mirin, the year 1964, in Toledo, before a group of Catalan and Castilian intellectuals, said: « Catalunya brings a twenty-i-five percent of the recaptancy of the State, but only forty-five percent of it brings. Like it was now, huh? He's the same guy he's got. And in Puig and Cadafalch, in La Veu de Catalunya, year 32, it said that Catalonia paid roughly thirty-three_per_cent of all that was paid to Spain, with only eleven_per_cent of the population. Does that ring a bell? Joan Creexell, year 1923, says: « Catalunya pays the twenty or twenty-i-five_percent of the Spanish supposition, with eleven_per_cent of the population. And he adds: « If Catalonia were independent – year 23 – « the Catalan State could serve its citizens twice as much as Spanish. It's been a hundred years. Exactly the same as now. Any 1902, Guillem Graell, promoter of the First Congress of Economy of Catalonia, says that Barcelona's contribution to the State was 147_millions_de_pessetes and that of Madrid, 112_millions, when Graell calculated that Barcelona in rebia 16_millions i Madrid, 166_millions. Does that ring a bell? Ferran Alsina, economist, the year 1890, said that Catalonia provided the twenty-i-set_per_cent of resources to the arks of the State, while representing only the deu_per_cent of the population. It sounds like that, doesn't it? So, mirin, 1890, we're more than a hundred and thirty years old with examples, one rere the other, generation rere generation. They see, therefore, that this goes from the moon. In fact, go back to 1714. From that victory they're treating us like the colony, not just Catalonia, but all the Catalan countries. And for that– for that– we fight for independence. Now, who are the consequences of this? [[Widow's remorse.]] You're nervous, aren't you, Socialists? Because they see that this goes from far away. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] What are the consequences of this for the people? Because we've talked a lot about numbers here, but we need to talk about how this affects people. So, mirin, the study of the Cambra of the year 2019 talks about the consequences of the non-complimentary execution in the period 2001-2018, only divided years of these three hundred that we carry. Says: « Listen'm, it would have generated 111,500 places of work, and we would have a turbulent now similar to that of Portugal, sis, set_per_cent. And, if we're talking tax multipliers, the study says it would have generated a 3.3_per_cent more GDP. The next thing you know, we'd still be all over Madrid, huh? Those who have advanced us now. If it wasn't for that, we'd still be over Madrid. And he also says that if we had completed these last decades the same level of investment as in Madrid, that in Spain, that in the middle of Spain and that in the rest of Europe, that we should have invested 45,000_million euros, we would now have about fifteen_percent more GDP. They know what this is, don't they? Austria and Does that ring a bell, too? So, look, I'm not explaining to you what would happen without a fiscal deficit. And that, counselor, I think it's a topic we should be thinking about, if you've ever felt a tax-free assumption to explain to people how this can affect their buttocks. But, all that, what's going on? So because the different governments of the State have decided that Madrid is not only the political capital, but also the economic one, which was historically Barcelona. In fact, in 1980 Madrid's GDP was 15_percent; in 2000, 17 and mig percent; and in 2020, 19.3_percent. Madrid has grown with money from all taxes, buiding the rest of Spain, because this is its model: buiding Spain to fill Madrid. Madrid, in fact, did not generate wealth, concentrated wealth with the money of all. And one very important thing: it hasn't improved its competitiveness, and that's very important. And that's what this book says, that I recommend that you search for it. [[the orator shows a book to the chamber]] , which explains that Barcelona continues to feel the leader in patents, continues to feel the leader in scientific production, when Madrid is in the new place or in the 15 place. In short, not investing publicly in Catalonia and doing so much more in Madrid is a state operation in which parties such as the PSC and the commons work together, and reinforces the speech that due to the Catalonia process does not progress, when it is the fault of the governments of the State, which have not invested enough for decades. In fact, there are less inverted than ever, because they know that they were once an independent state. For all this, counselor, we think there's enough, and we ask him what his opinion is of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.23.0	There's the word, in the replica tower, the counselor. I don't know if I should give it to the Socialist Party – if anyone wants to take the word... – [[relays]] However, in any case, they will be sent to the Economics and History Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.24.0	President, thank you. MPs, MPs, Mr. Canadell... During the last two days, so many things have been said about the publication of the degree of execution of the State's investments that is difficult, frankly, adding to some of the new ones. You, Mr. Canadell, have presented us with an inventory of objective indicators that perfectly document the endemic heaviness of Catalonia. And it did well, if I may, to relate deficit and reversal to the historical problem of fiscal balances. Actually, it's the same thing. It is not my intention today to insist on the figures of shame or to re-donate the numbers that show the magnitude of the humiliation we are going through, but I do want, before anything else, to point out a given for what claims self-requirement. As President Aragones said yesterday and is reflected in the Generality's monthly performance report, the 21st December the departments of the Generality executed 71.7_percent of the assumption in the Chapter of Investments. But – but – allow me to supplement the given so as to make it really comparable to that of the thirty-sis_per_cent execution of the state's investments, because these are not really comparable. Taking into account the whole public sector of the Generality, as is the whole public sector of the Spanish State, I might say that the percentage of implementation of the Generality's investments at 30 December 21 was 95.5_per_cent. I repeat, 95.5_per_cent. Neither the 35,7 of the State nor the fifty-sep_per_cent attributed to us by Mr. Pedro Sánchez; we, the 95,5. So, self-requirement, all of it. I don't want to focus, therefore, on the punctuality of this 35,7. I'd rather take a little distance and try to hear what's going on in Catalonia in historical terms. And, to do so, in speaking for me, I will give six telegraphic witnesses to speak for me, because they did it before I did it in the next fifty years. June 19, 1973, presentation of a book to the Circle of Economy entitled Management or Chaos. Who was prohom of the Socialist Party and Vice-President of the Spanish Government, Mr Narcís Serra, speaks overtly of the chaos and says that this chaos is explained by the growing inadequacy of the means of communication, because with the fifteen_per_cent of the national vehicle park, the metropolitan area of Barcelona has 1.08 of the roads of the country. This constitutes – said the Lord Serra – « a constant and progressive remorse. Circle of Economy, Narcis Serra, year 73. Second. April '75. The Vanguard dedicates five in-depth reports to documenting the – work comets – « alarming shortage of road infrastructure in the province of Barcelona, still comparing it with that of Madrid. "The city," said the Diari, "will not have in many years a complete free circumvalation route, and meanwhile, in the summer of 1976, Madrid will have – as it will be – "in service more than three quarters of the thirty-kilometres of its third toll-free belt, in which the State will invest more than 6,000_million_of_pesetas– tanco comets. Third. April 11, 1985. Two years have passed since the articles in La Vanguardia. Ramon Trias Fargas, then president of Democratic Convergence, says to Europa Press – obro cometes – : « The general assumptions of the State assign to Catalonia – year 85 – « three times less money than those that are assigned to Madrid ; while in Madrid to each person correspond 17,260_peoples in investments, in Catalonia this amount is reduced to 6,210_peoples per person. Fourth. June of '91. We're one year away from the Olympic Games. The economist Montserrat Colldeforns, shortly before becoming a socialist congresswoman, publishes what was the first detailed analysis of the fiscal flow between Catalonia and Madrid. According to the study, which refers to the years 86 to 88, Catalonia brings the dinosaur_percent of the State tickets and only the thirteen_percent of the expenditure. Catalans pay in half a twenty-i-five_per_cent more than the inhabitants of the rest of the State. In an article written by the economist, Colldeforns says: « We are faced with a deficit in the fiscal balance which is excessive for Catalonia, among other things because the figures available lead us to think that this outflow of money does not occur in all the rich regions of Spain. You can imagine who you're referring to when you talk about "other rich regions of Spain". Five. July of '91. The Official Chamber of Contractors of Catalonia prepares a study in which it makes clear that the Olympic Games have not meant an increase in the state's investments in Catalonia. According to the report, between the year 81 and 90 Catalonia has been the community with the lowest number of state investments. « Comparing the figures with those of the Madrid community – diu l'analyse –« it can be observed that the pesetas that a Catalan receives in this period vary between forty_y_one and sixty_y_seven_per_cent of those that go to a Madridian. In all these years, Catalonia has always been below the Spanish average – tanco cometes. And yet a later witness, the sisè: November 26, 2009, at seven months that the Constitutional Court dictated that infamous sentence. The twelve newspapers of Catalonia – sure you must remember – publish a joint editorial. I will read a fragment of the final paragraph: "No one who knows Catalonia will doubt that the recognition of identity, the improvement of self-government, the obtaining of just financing and a qualitative leap in the management of infrastructure are and will continue to be stubbornly complained of with an extensive political and social support. Mr Canadell, Members and Members, let us not deceive ourselves. What is at stake here is the consolidation of a certain state model. A centralist state model that has no doubts about sacrificing the periphery to strengthen the capital and that does not depend on who governments, because, before UCD, after the PP, after the PSOE..., it is a state model shared across all Spanish parties, and it is what the data tell us. And this is the real cause of our financing problems: the gullibleness of Madrid imposes the will and the black father on the other territories, and in particular, on Catalonia. The desire of the capital, Members and Members, can only be satisfied with our breakfast. This is the key. All Catalans, from Alcanar to Portbou, passing through Bossòst, we all have a problem. We have a problem and we have it many years ago. And this problem today is not said three_per_cent, this problem is said thirty-sis_per_cent, and it is a big problem, an endemic problem, that for a lot of efforts that women have no way of correcting it. A problem that offends us and that makes us feel humiliated and that prevents us from enslaving ourselves with the country. Mirin, when a political injustice lasts half a century it is hard to believe that whoever provokes it has no intention of correcting it. And if our country, Catalonia, cannot wait for the State to revise its model, then – then – there are only two exits: one, to lower its head and wait for clemency, as they sometimes do the hostages with their segressors, and the other, to persist, to maintain faith and illusion, to seek an opportunity, to work and prepare conditions, without failing, without losing hope, in order to escape from captivity and regain freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.25.0	As I announced yesterday, the next item has been adjourned until the next plenary, and we therefore move to the fifteenth item of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government about the impetus of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors]] [[300-00184/13]] It is the government's inquiry into the impulse of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors. It was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And you have the word, to make the presentation, Mr. Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... well, I had it in mind in half an hour... so we've had to improvise now for a moment, and I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. And it also tastes hard, because there were entities that had to come and that, therefore, with this half hour... they can't come. They'll explain it to them or... we'll see, it's all right. In any case, we raise this question about the momentum of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors because we understand that this is a very important issue. No one escapes the anxiety that families have, in some cases continued, because it is a situation that is perplexed for a long time, many years, even so, and that way we understand, therefore, the need for administrations to act there. To contextualize the issue, because someone can think, therefore, that this is a residual issue or that does not affect many people, we are not talking about isolated cases – that it is also true that they would have the whole right that their case is dealt with, but they are not isolated cases. The year 2021 in Spain there were 22,285 complaints, of which 3,333 were in Catalonia. So, that's an important amount. We're far from prepandemic, but still, as I say, it's an important amount. It's true that a five-per-cent number of these is resolved, but that means there's a five-per-cent number that isn't resolved. At this time there have been active all of Spain 5,500 complaints, 2,000 of which are from 2021, and 2,397 cases opened to Catalonia, of which 366, according to the last data, were also from 2021. To contextualize this amount – which I don't want to compare, but it's to give context – we have 3,240 complaints of male violence in Catalonia in the area of the home. I therefore believe that these are totally non-comparable situations, but in any case, we are contextualizing that this is an important quantity. It's true that in the last few years there's been some kind of action. Mr. Swordler, at his advisor's time, had made an office for the families of missing persons. Also the companion and great friend Rafel Bruguera, both in the Senate and here in Parliament, had done two acts, such as a young lady and the law respects the enforced disappearance of minors, but we understand that at this time we need to take a step further. We need to take a step further, because this young man there was and that, therefore, he had to serve as the basis and context mark for us to be able to develop these actions, we understand that it is not developing, it is not at the pace that man expected. We must remember that more than two years and a half ago it was done, that it was approved, this young man, that, in addition, it set standards that I understand were easily complicable, because it was not much in detail, they were very generic. And so, we think it's a good time, so, to review these policies that they're doing and look to give it a boost. As always who speaks and the parliamentary group, we will do it in two lifetimes: a first, posing in replenishment what is not complete, and a second – which we hope will give me time, if not, to reply – to put on the table the measures we propose. With regard to missing persons without apparent cause, as I say, the motion served us with a basic and margin mike to have a global idea of what the actions were, and, as I said before, I understand that many of these actions have not taken place. And I'll make a little rest, surely not exhausted, but a little rest that will give us an idea of what we're not doing and what we should do. And let's start with the case that someone might seem more anecdotal, that I understand it's not, that it's organizing March 9th of every year on the Day of Missing Persons. I already say that I think it's not a minor point, because social support forms part of the psychological recovery that families have to have. Certainly, the Government has organized two meetings, but it is difficult to qualify as an institutional act, especially since this year, because even the Councillor was present, there was no invitation to civil society or parliamentary groups. It appeared on the web, in addition, at a later date, and it was an act that consisted of a few speakers. He was the secretary general, the Oriol Amorós, who was doing very well – I don't say no, but... – an institutional act. I think... and the families and the entities understand that you deserve... a point more than that. And, I mean, it's not a minor matter. Also, throughout the debate on the motion, the main objective was to make the cause visible, and therefore to generate homogeneous statistical studies, structural research programs, and to work for social awareness every time major. But, of course, in these moments I didn't know how to see the head... neither I nor the entities did we know how to see the head of the study. Even if man goes to the department's web page and looks at the data, he sees that they are... Open data is from 2020 onwards; there are no previous data, they are not broken down by age, sex, origin, because of disappearance. That is to say, there is still a much more accurate study here, as the Spanish Government is doing in this case. So much so that even many of the..., the web page poses that is not updated since 2015. Therefore, we understand, therefore, that this is a situation that we need to improve. We could also say respect for the need to make arrangements with these entities. They didn't work out. I don't say it anymore – as well – as the support line and advice to entities – it's true that they would go very well, to have these agreed – but also for the benefit of services that can be done. And that's related to a second question, which is the existence of data bases that the department doesn't have and that some of these entities have, and that maybe, if it gives me time, I'll add or relate further. Neither are there any follow-up protocols for the affected persons, both in the administrative and judicial expedients. There is no protocol for the prevention of disappearance risk collections through the training and information program addressed to social services, primary and professional care centers that treat people with neurodegenerative dysfunctions, autolithical risk lines and others. These protocols haven't started yet. Obviously, they are not all the competence of the Department of the Interior, but it should be the department that you insist on or do, and it has not been done. And, as we say, they are older, vulnerable people with mental disabilities, and they are therefore more likely to suffer from these disappearances. Neither have the geolocation equipment of these vulnerable people been set up. There is no protocol of action, nor to the commissariats of the country to know how to act in case of complaint for disappeared persons. There are no trained specialists in police basic areas. In fact, as such, there is no specialized unit, because the one we have – and we put it in value, but... – is for cases of criminal disappearances, and, therefore, it is in small format – if I don't remember badly, six people – and it doesn't take the majority of cases, because, if I don't get it wrong, the last data were that there were only seven cases that were carried in this central unit of missing people, which in any case we do have in value. Just like... like I said, there's the Disappeared Family Care Office. All right, but obviously I think it's gonna get bigger. They're having a dilloon office opening hours from 9 to 14. They make a series of tricks, which families appreciate a lot – as it should be said – but it is true that it remains short for the need for these people to have greater involvement and greater knowledge of how the case progresses, and that, as it has widened over time, so the contact is smaller. As I also said, it is true that there is access from Mossos d'Esquadra to the state base of missing persons and unidentified human remains, the Codis, but it does not have access to other bases that are serious, I believe, very interesting to have. For example, as I said, you do not have access to the Observatory of Enforced Disappearances of Minors. It has a database of DNA data with the Clinic that also suits the University of Barcelona and the Official Psychology College of Catalonia. And, therefore, the Mosses don't have access to it. We understand that it would be a matter of disconnection. But we don't have a program with the Catalan Institute of Health at this point in time... between our own department or the government departments of the Generality, so long as we can dig up the data, the medical data of the missing people. Neither do we have interconnection programs to know when a missing person uses the ID, health card or driver's license. Neither has the inter-departmental table been finished nor a work table. We understand that this – and so we did a PR, it's not really necessary for the Commission of the Interior – is necessary; I don't say it's essential anymore, I would say it's almost essential. Only in this way, with the presence of all the departments involved, but also of parliamentary groups, and, above all, of entities and associations, will we continue to drive these policies. Because, as I say... two and a half years and they haven't applied; I understand, therefore, that it needs this impulse or this calf on the outside. Regarding the forced disappearance of minors, so we could talk about the same. If it's hard not to have a young man complete, it's harder for us not to have a law complete, which, among others, put the emphasis on creating the office of the victim of the forced disappearance of minors. It hasn't developed regularly, either, this law. Nor was this inter-departmental committee that was also to be accountable to Parliament created, which it has not done either. I mean, with this initiative, what we want to manifest is a departmental inactivity. I could say, after all, a lack of sensitivity and initiative to lead the solution of these problems, in which, unfortunately – and I finish, President – we see that in the day-to-day management there have been these shortcomings. So, we understand that it's a good time to reset, to get back on track, to look at which policies are working best. And in any case, I will tell you in the next place our proposals to improve these policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.27.0	The word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.28.0	Thank you, President. And many thanks, honourable Member, for presenting an inquiry into this question, in which, in effect – back up a sentence that you have said – we have to go one step further. Our commitment is to do so, because, indeed, we are ahead of a subject which is particularly delicate and which, indeed, deserves the attention of the Government, on the part of Parliament; in short, on the part of the institutions. That requires, as I said, an inter-departmental action, because, indeed, it is a very relevant subject, which may seem, if I may be allowed to express, anecdotal, as you yourself have said, but it is not, that the figures are very impressive. And, therefore, I am particularly grateful, therefore, that this inquiry has been made. I also want to thank the presence of the entities, as you have done. It seems to me that some have arrived, already. For agenda questions... we have to apologize to all of you, because for agenda questions of this plenary, which has been especially complex, the agenda, we have done before, and therefore they have not been able to arrive. But here... a very special greeting, and thanks also for your dedication and your energy. As the government, the gang to investigate disappearances and try to find the missing people, our duty is to stand next to the families, attend them and accompany them. And we also need to make use of the knowledge we are acquiring and learning to do a job that is also very important in this area, which is prevention. I want – because the families have arrived, now, some of them – in this sense, to say that, as the deputy of the Socialist Group asked, that he would go a step further..., so I would underline it; indeed, we must go a step further there. And that's the compromise we're getting. Then there is the question, as I also said, of the enforced disappearance of minors, which is a subject in some measure related to historical memory. It has been produced as a systemic or generalized practice in some areas over the years, up to the 1990s. And, in this sense, the Parliament, as I recalled, 2020 legislated on this issue to provide reparation to victims and facilitate investigation. And this law, as I said, contemplates the creation of the office of the victim of the forced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, which must be pulled forward and that, to be sure, the context in which we have been these past two years has not facilitated it, and I pledge that this is fired forward and is done. Because it's also important – I think it's also important for entities, for families – to talk about data, because data, despite being anonymous, expressed that it's a significant problem. There were 3,333 reports of missing persons in Catalonia in 2021. And there are many, yes, there are very many, but they are less than there were before the pandemic. I mean, the cipher is still more spectacular, more impressive. We're talking about 4,300 middle days here in Catalonia the last few years. The year 2020, also because of the context in which we were, therefore, do not reach 3,000, 2,886. But, as I said, for example, 2018 was 4,447, right? And this year we're wearing 295. The profile, too – because I think it's good to get to know it – is... a thirty-five per cent, a little over a third, they're teenagers, young between thirteen and seven years old. Most of them, in general numbers, are men, fifty-set_per_cent, but among the smallest three_quarters_parts are girls. And, therefore, this is sure to answer questions that too many points of view have to be valued. We are also talking about many cases of large disoriented people. The disappearances of minors are very related to the disorders of conduct, problems linked to adolescence, which must be addressed, as you remembered and said, therefore, from a much more comprehensive perspective. Yes, we have to make March 9 an institutional act of recognition of the country to this situation to put it on, to give it to know. This year the act was very discreet because we were in the pandemic and we couldn't do one more act. I went there, and I've been there long enough. I did not speak, because I preferred, in that act, therefore, that those who had organized it should be the ones who closed it – in that case, the Director General. The secretary general opened the day and I was a good couple of hours listening to the speakers, not just the director general, but the families and entities, with whom I then had the opportunity to run a station. I also want to value the role of citizen collaboration to solve many of the cases. And that's very uplifting, because it has to do with the institutional act that needs to be done. It is necessary to make a very important institutional act in order to bring it to light, to ensure that there is a problem with the country in this matter. And so those of us who are not questioned in our day to day for this situation are aware of this fact, and so we have the eyes placed in this reality, because citizen collaboration is what helps in many cases to resolve many of these disappearances. Many of them, most of them, as you have recalled, are immediately resolved thanks to the cooperation of the citizen and the action of the Squadron's Body, but it is also true that there are many that grow in time. And at this point there are 2,397 open cases. And I don't say the round cipher, but I say the concrete number, because behind each cipher there is a person and a family and a circle that suffers. Cases of missing persons, the oldest of which are cases..., some and all of the year 2000. Currently, there are 1,802 shippers of more than one year old and 741 shippers of more than five years old. Naturally, the resolution of each of these cases... decreases the percentage as time goes by, for obvious reasons, right? But I also have to tell you that Mossos d'Esquadra never ceases to investigate any cases and always remains open, while the problem exists. It's also true that there's got to be this accompanying job, and from the Squad's Squad thing there's a team that does this job. I have had the opportunity, for one band, to know the recognition of the associations of the work that this unit of follow-up does, and I have also had the opportunity to talk to them on some occasion. And I'm also aware that it needs to be strengthened, that it needs to be given more media, right? Therefore, everything that the people who do it, who are doing it, who are doing it, who are taking it forward, of course, is not because of their lack of dedication, of delivery and I believe that they are sympathetic to the situation, but because of the lack of means, and I am sure that it must be strengthened. I just want to overtook... it's true, we've approved a set of measures for the young man and the law to develop. We've been two years that some of the things that had to be taken were especially expensive. Our commitment is that... all those who have surrendered, stimulate them and empower them more. We are talking about this team, to which reference is made, of follow-up, but also of the table, this interdepartmental space, because it has many looks, this, not only that of security and that of investigation – of which, in the answer, because now I will not have time, I will also talk about it –, but also that you have much to see with questions of mental safety, of follow-up, of..., certainly in relation to the great people, to the people who are particularly vulnerable to some type of devices or mechanisms to follow it. Especially, it should be borne in mind that many of the disappearances are people... who last a little while and who are found to be very recidivist people, because they suffer, therefore, from personal conditions and an environment that provokes them to this situation. Therefore, surely in these circles of people who recidivise, to hear us, or repeat this situation, would be able to fix mechanisms of vigilance. Just like teleassistance, we can probably think of follow-up mechanisms. We're posing. We're, I think, doing a good job from the Interior Council, particularly the Squadron's Cos de Mossos, also from the General Directorate of Security. And, of course, we'll put in a lot more media. And I'm sure initiations we've had today, so they'll help us do more and better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.29.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.30.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your answer. I'm glad we agree, one part, in the analysis, if not, in which we have to take a step forward. We have to take a step forward not because of politics, but because of humanity, let's just say it. The patience of these families is great. It is true, as you said, and as I had also made manifest, that there is a very important percentage that is resolved in the early days, and therefore we must not congratulate and focus on it, but it is also true, as you also said, that, while there are no cases, the percentage this time goes... in a lower number of resolutions, and here surely is where we have to focus more. And we have to do it not only with the instruments that we have already equipped ourselves with in its moment, but, as I said, we have to do this step further. And we have to do it because society is advancing, because it is not normal, as I said at the time, that there is still no interrelationship between databases. And it's certainly not normal for us to treat different people who, in the end, are missing, who are without cause, or who are forced to disappear. Therefore, we in the next motion will present a whole series or battery of measurements. The first advance is that it is not..., it will not be peaceful, let's say so, but we do understand, therefore, that it would be time to make a single law. It can't be that we have a forced disappearance of minors with the law, and, on the other hand, the missing people don't have the law. Therefore, we understand that it would be time to make a single law. As we know that the procedure is long, it is obvious that we will ask it, therefore, not to its department, because I understand that the Department of Justice here also has to do so, but, while it is not doing this whole law, that I think it would be the best option, that it is vague developing, if not regularly, the law, first, because we are already out of the way, and second, because it is not only a question of completing or not completing the law – that, obviously, we would have to complete it – but, until all this incompliment, this lack of regulatory regulation, which is what causes situations that are easily avoidable in the day to day. Like I said, we're missing a follow-up. The accompanying not only of the office of attendance at the disappearance, of calling, of interest and of giving explanation; it is very recommensurable, very pleasant, but these families who find themselves in this situation have a whole series of administrative, economic, civil and judicial problems, for reasons of inheritance, for reasons of managing with banking entities, and no longer say the social and psychological problems – that also – here it would be a major implication of the department, of all the Government of the Generalitat, of all the departments, in order to try to reduce the anxiety that certainly causes them not only – that is already much – the disappearance of a family member, of an esteemed person, but also all the administrative difficulties that are found. That's why I told him we need this whole law. I also told him that we would ask for a large set of measures that I think in this case it would correspond entirely to his department, and it respects the Squadron Mosses. As I said, there is a central unit of missing persons who intervened in those expeditions that are forced, but I understand it's time to go a step further. As many of these resolutions are fanciful in the first days or moments of disappearance, it is normal that police basic areas are kept the first investigation. Even so, we would ask or ask the reason why there are special agents for these issues, but it would also be good for us to make a unit that includes all the disappearances, because, when they already carry these days – and here, in any case, is what I think we don't have to define or I don't have to define, but we do have to define among all – what is needed is a more global vision. The first ones can be done on the part of the ABPs, but those who already carry a little more time, which need, moreover, surely collaboration between different departments, so it would be necessary to do so in this way, with a centralized unit. But, in addition, we need to establish protocols. What can't be is that at this point we don't have protocols. And that's why we asked him the question, because he took a lot away from us, and his department replied that there were standards, but there was no type of protocol. And, therefore, here we have to put ourselves now. Because, besides, the resolution in the first moments, in the first days of disappearance is very important. That said, we have seen that there is this will; therefore, we thank him there. We will make this young man, who, as we also said in the first intervention, we will also ask him for this collaboration of different departments because there are these databases of data that are believed; not of DNA – which also – but, as we say, also with other types..., of IDs, health tags, etc., that the use does bring in the fact that many times they are lost. And, therefore, I already recognize that it will be a very different view from what has been done so far, because it will be up to us to do a team job with different departments, with other administrations. And above all, and here I say, to our group we would be interested... we would like to participate not to make a control that does not concern us, but to help in the measure of how possible to solve these cases. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.31.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.32.0	Well, again, thank you. Surely in many things we would discuss – well, in fact, with Mr. Swordler we do so from time to time – but not in that. In this, I'm sure not, because we share it absolutely with everything..., I think that with all the groups, but particularly, so, with you, who have presented this concern..., and, from the department, the concern. I want to talk to them, too, because there's a reference to a task that's done, that's the investigation. Effectively, in the first moment, the first investigation is from the investigation unit of the respective basic areas that have attended the complaint, and do not open the causes, the circumstances and the possible location of the person. That's mostly the case, and most of it, so it's settled. But then, from the Central Unit of Disappeared Persons..., it is to say, when there are signs of crime or, finally, when the issue widens, there is a central unit of missing persons between the Criminal Investigation Division of the General Investigation Commission. And here's where the task is in cases where initially it didn't work or the person couldn't be found. And in the last five years this unit, so, it's had to take care of and it's had some of the cases that have occurred. And, at the same time, this division, as in all investigations, advises the basic areas on what they need, right? And, therefore, there is a unity between the body. We will talk to the people of the division and of the General Investigation Commissioner how it can be strengthened, as it can centralize, what... I mean, I can't afford to say which is the specific solution, because experts, let's say it, in investigation... I prefer those who say which is the best way to decentralize it, if through a PNT – that is, a protocol – or through internal standards, etc. But in any case, yes, that there is a global look on the part of the body respect these situations, especially those that are not immediate resolution, right? In relation to the networks, let's say, the different networks and databases, we have access to them. And we have access to the databases, to the identifiers obtained from DNA, because they allow us to compare the genetic profiles of people and to be able to work in the investigation, not only in the first place, but also with the Ministry of the Interior. And we would also soon participate in other networks of databases of European character, the result of the agreements that we reached in November at the Board of Security of Catalonia. Therefore, from this point of view, we are getting better day by day and we are getting easier and more information. I want to go over the work again – because it is clear to me, because I was told that day – so the work done by the Office of Assistance to the Family of Disappeared Persons; I want to strengthen it and give it more media so that I can work. We are aware of the enormous impact that it has on and around the family – on and around the family. Especially when there's a known disgrace, it's a kind of pain, let's just say, right? ; when there is uncertainty, the more there is uncertainty, which is this situation of not knowing where it is, what happened, whether there is an end or there is no end, it is still much bigger and requires another treatment, of course. And, therefore, this advice, therefore, is necessary from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but, effectively, it must also be cross-sectional. For this reason, the compromise is that in these own three months we will create the table, and to which, in its constitution, we will also invite the entities to participate. Because there must be, indeed, this space in which we all pray, because there can not only be the look of Mossos d'Esquadra, which is a dimension, but also that there are many other councils, some from the own Administration, others, which we already do, from other institutions, such as, for example, the lawyers' colleges, which participate and collaborate on the collaboration that we have from the Generality in relation to them. Therefore, we will create this space and create this space with participation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I just – from the entities. And naturally also, therefore, to arrange for all that coordination, shared work that we can do with the different parliamentary groups in relation to this issue. And I think I'm sure we'll get along with the young man. And if I can only get one last point: the law, let's talk about it whether it's possible or not, whether it's necessary or not, but before it does, actually, there's a lot of work to do that I'm sure it doesn't just depend on the existence of a law. Many thanks and, again, very welcome the representatives of the entities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.33.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry on the energy combination]] [[302-00154/13]] Let's move on to the seventh item of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the energy combination, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.34.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor. Well, before I begin I want to send a very strong hug from here to our colleague Matías Alonso, who is the one who should be here defending this motion, but the covid has caught him and will be listening to us from home. I am sure you are listening because you have been very attentive to all the amendments and all the transactions. This motion goes on the energy mix. It is about global problems such as energy transition, such as climate change, and also about local problems, such as employment in areas most affected by the abandonment of certain sources. The motion goes from all that, but it goes, above all, to ask for reflection, to ask for rationality, to ask to listen to science, to adapt to the circumstances and to make common sense in all the decisions we make. The Government of Spain has demonized nuclear energy. Many of the groups in this Parliament have therefore also followed this path. Nor are we fooled, nuclear energy has also been demonised outside our borders. But the main reason why it has been displaced has been, above all, the high social controversy that has existed and exists around its development. And with this motion, what we intend to do is take a small step to change that demonization stance and try to remove the noise that has always surrounded the nuclear ones. We're not fooled. We know that after this intervention it is difficult to change the position of these political groups. We know that it is not easy for us to leave now, after listening to me, the Socialist Party and tell us: "Hey, look, you have convinced us, and since we are part of the Government of Spain we are going to go to Vandellòs tomorrow and we are going to tell you: "Look, you can follow ten or fifteen more years. We know that this is not so easy, and we also know that, even if the Government of Spain made a decision like that, and went to Vandellòs and decided to extend the years in which it was safe and logical to keep the power station open, for surely the reaction of the Government here, of the Generalitat of Catalonia would not be the most favorable. Can you imagine what you would say, for example, Republican Left? It is easy to imagine, seeing what has happened, for example, with Prat airport. That is why this issue, which is national in scope and which we have already brought to Congress, we thought it was important to bring the same thing here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, and to open this debate here, which is so necessary. We know, as I say, that this motion is not going to change any party's position today, surely; we know that it is not a matter of one day, but that does not prevent us from firmly believing that we need to open this debate and that we hope, sooner or later, that change will take place. We want the decision to close a power plant to really justify the need for such a shutdown and not the other way around, which is practically what is happening now. And that closure is not justified by science, by data, or by security conditions, since the desirability of continuing to work or extending that date can be carefully assessed. So easy, that's all we want. Because we won nothing with sectarianisms in this matter. And even more so, when inflation, when the rise in energy prices, are wreaking havoc on the savings of citizens and are wasting the activity of Catalan companies and of the whole of Spain. We must certainly aim for a renewable future and continue to fight climate change. But nuclear energy is a useful source in that transition and, as such, we must look at it. It is necessary to be able to meet the objectives of sustainability and decarbonisation without condemning many or energy poverty or all of us to continue to have emissions, the emissions that involve continuing to burn gas. We know that no one is going to change their position on energy today, but we want to help make it no longer taboo to talk about postponing some closing dates that were agreed on much more socio-political than technical issues. We call for data to be put on the table; for those responsible, those who know, security agencies, Europe to be heard; for progress to be taken into account, which has been a great deal of innovation in recent years. We also ask that we take into account the current circumstances, which have changed a lot: with the delay that we carry with the renewables in our country – and especially in Catalonia, we know it well –, with the war of Ukraine, or with the sanctions on Russia, and, above all, that we have real forecasts for the next, let us put on the table, twenty or thirty years. The whole of Europe has moved the record. In Germany, the planned closure for three power stations is being reviewed, which was planned for this year. Belgium has announced that it will extend the useful life of its ten years. Boris Johnson has committed to the construction of mini reactors to reduce dependence on gas and oil. And there is a long list of countries that complete: Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden or Slovakia. We know – I say it and I have repeated it several times – that it is not easy for anyone to change their stance today, but we don't have much time either. So they will see us insist – insist, insist – here, in Congress, in the European Parliament and where it is needed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.35.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... effectively, Mrs Bravo, you have not convinced us of your intervention, as you predicted. However, I would like to thank you for the good work you have always done in negotiating amendments. We have been able to reach agreement on one of the compromise amendments. But the first one I wanted to say is that, in fact, the title leads to deception, the title of this young man, right? Because, in fact, more than a motion about energy combination or energy mix, as you said, it is ultimately a motion in defense of nuclear energy, as you have shown here. I, look, there's no perfect energy. Nuclear, too. And present it as the solution in capitals lack of rigor. Because, even if we talk a little bit, because the acceleration of the climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions is required, there have been other reasons, too, to advance in the search for alternative sources of energy to fossils and nuclear, such as the time limit of oil or uranium in the case we are talking about. I mean, they're resources that aren't unlimited, they're finite. And therefore, alternatives were to be sought sooner than later. But you've only pointed at this young man and his exhibition, haven't you? , the positive effects of nuclear energy and allow me, therefore, also to raise the problems of considering extending the lives of nuclear power stations to Catalonia and Spain. The first is about reconsidering a path that has already been traced. These closure plans have already been approved in Catalonia and Spain. And, in fact, the comprehensive national energy and climate plan, the PNIEC, sent to Brussels and, therefore, approved also in European institutions, establishes a timetable of closure between 2027 and 2035. Do you consider the safety issues of going beyond life already marked for these reactors? Why don't you talk about this or talk about it with the territory, right? , which supports this type of installation. Second consideration. On the management of nuclear waste, on the vulnerability of these types of infrastructure, and I will add an issue of an intergenerational pact. About the residue management. They are dangerous residues, as you are sure you know – in fact, mortals – for human salvation and the environment. And, besides, the management of these residues is expensive at the economic level and very complex. In fact, triguen thousand years to degrade. In terms of security, as I said, there are also vulnerable installations, both for natural disasters and for possible terrorist attacks. Fixed, in fact, that as much as we have climate change negators and others that 2050 seems to them very far away, the fight against climate change for most of us also has a very important intergenerational component. That is to say, we are working – and surely we share it – to leave a more sustainable land to future generations. It is also fixed that when it begins to talk about ending nuclear energy we do so because it cannot conceive of the earth as a container of highly dangerous waste which, moreover, last generation again. Therefore, we run the risk of moving from a path of hope and doing things better for our own generations to an insolidary path, it seems to me, or, as a matter of fact, of perpetuating a problem in order not to know what to do with these residues and to fill them in for future generations. And the third and final consideration I wanted to make, about a generation that's very centralized. It is a centralized energy production, which also involves a level of energy transport. But from our point of view there is a loss of opportunity for the territory, which you see in the decentralised renewable energies a path also of progress. Therefore, finally, from our point of view, considering nuclear energy in this energy mix and abandoning the closure plans which, as I say, are already approved by European institutions, can further encourage the necessary transformation and energy transition in Catalonia, or abandon efforts in terms of energy efficiency, or the incorporation of the consumer, the citizen, into the electricity market. Catalonia and Spain have elements to be energy potential at European level. And, therefore, to be at the forefront of this green industrial revolution. And we don't want this path of progress to be encouraged by the convenience of an energy option that's not safe enough and that's not net in terms of the residue it generates. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.37.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Quim Calatayud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.38.0	President, good morning. He'll advise, how about it? Good morning. MPs, MPs... Last week, at the port of Tarragona, in a cluster with recognizable experts I arrived at the following conclusion: or we are sparing to process, to authorize, to build, to serve and operate wind farms and photovoltaic environments in Catalonia, or it will extend the operational life of the three nuclear reactors. And, besides, we will have to build electrical infrastructure to import electricity – naturally, wind and solar – from Aragó. A few years ago, the same environment that now required speed and speed to believe were the first to strain the territory with demagogic proclamations and positions and profit. And I'm saying it, because I've suffered like the mayor and the president of the district council, that I have to recognize that they're going to get out, because the difficulty we have now in the territory is and will be exceptional. It is obvious that everyone believes that the mountain of the Baroness, or the forest of the return Baroness is untouchable, impeccable self-defense. Let's go to a lobby that will eventually trigger a market reaction to intensify recycling and innovate. Whatever we don't want to do for the climate change, now we're forced to do it for the new geopolitical situation. We note, therefore, the two essential activities in the world that is now beginning: recycling and energy self-consumption. Nuclear energy, we all know, is an energy that has no direct impact on the emission of winter-effect gases. Now, Catalonia has defined our energy future in the National Pact for Energy Transition, in Law 16/2017. The sensitivity towards nuclear energy is very palpable in Tarragonian regions, where we know that the necessary balance between the presence of nuclear power plants and the finalization of their life cycle must be decided, with a sense of doubt, towards the extinction of nuclear energy. And we believe that as long as there are, citizens and nuclear companies must maintain the necessary balance. But nuclear power at the time of 2050 must cease to be an energy source, as our goal as a country and as a modern and advanced society is to contribute to a society where the consumption of fossil fuels tends to be zero. And, in this sense, and citing Law 16, August 1, the measures taken in energy must be directed towards energy transition towards a renewable, denuclearized and decarbonized cent-per-cent model. This and not another is our goal. There are other questions of the proposal, modular reactors, for example, which are the object of this debate, which fall for their own. The temporary nuclear waste warehouses located in the producer centres may not be an extraordinary solution – we could share this point of view – but, Members, the solution does not go through a centralized warehouse, which, as everyone knows, generates an extraordinary setback and, possibly, in this case, may choose a lesser evil. Last but not least, I would like to thank the interest, in the sense that a detailed study of the need for reindustrialisation and diversification in the Comarques of Southern Tarragona – we appreciate it – is only that the Government is working on this project, that it is foreseen the inn of a fund that will be endowed with about 24_million euros per year, and we hope that this time indeed will be a reality. The creation of a public enterprise is on the table. Personally, I like more of a Catalan energy agency if we group all the energy competitions into one body. Agence Catalana de l'Aigua, Agence de Residus, are examples of organizations that have operated in an exceptional way; that, in change, the term "public enterprise" can have many connotations. Therefore, as I said, we do not want to go back, and, if I may, remember that if we do not have exceptional courage on the part of the government and political parties, without short-running parties, we will not get out of it. We're going to look like party interests, and that's how we're territorially. Courage and conviction. And, of course, we would vote against all the points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.39.0	I, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Maria Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.40.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies, deputies, the energetic model that we defend from the Republican Left is a distributed, democratic, participatory and territorially cohesive model, based on renewable energies of proximity in order to achieve an economic and energetic model that does not depend on fossil fuels or nuclear fuels by 2050. So we cannot see with the proposal that you are presenting today. You are talking, with all the peace of the world, about extending the operation of the power stations in Ascó and Vandellòs, as if nothing, without taking into account what it means for the surrounding municipality to tend to the voracious nuclear reactors; without having been concerned about the claims of the municipalities of the nuclear areas surrounding them. Claims that even seem unbelievable, but no, that they are very real. We are talking about reviewing the limits of security zones, extending them to twenty-five metres; realizing nuclear-emergency simulations with civilian population, for a security issue. Because, even though she seems to be lying, it never happened. There are populations that are located at a radius of deu_kilometers of nuclear power stations where there is no mobile coverage; hallucinating, if you want to give an alert to the citizenry, in full 21st century. Left Republican to Congress we have denounced it many times, and if it rules the People's Party, as if it rules the Socialist Party with the commons, they are requests that have fallen into empty sack. Another point in his speech is about the investments needed to cope with the closure and re-industrialisation of nuclear municipalities. If we study, but we don't have the resources to deal with these investments, we have a lot of studies to decorate, but we don't have anything else. So, if it looks like it, we're doing a little history. At the generation of 2015, at Esquerra Republicana's proposal, the Generalitat promoted two environmental taxes and it was determined that the deu_per_cent of the recaptancy had an impact on the municipalities of the nuclear area: the creation of a nuclear transition fund. I, surprise, the PP government brings him to the Constitutional and he can't pull forward. Second intent: a new tax to allocate the 20_per_cent of the return to cover this fund. The same story: the PP government brings him to the Constitutional. But here there is a small variation: enter the ruling Socialist Party and do not withdraw the appeal. So, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I'm, like, I'm, like, I'm, And now, in the third attempt, in the law of fiscal measures by 2022, twenty per cent of the revenues collected from nuclear power plants will provide resources for this nuclear transition. Therefore, after the seven years that we have lost, the Generality will contribute 24_million euros each year to a fund that will directly impact the economy of the nuclear territories, starting from a regulation that is already being developed and managed for a table chaired by the Enterprise Department and integrated for local administrations and economic agents of the territory, and which will be the one that will define the priority projects. Because that doesn't make up for joints and perpetuate an unsustainable option. This generated tractor projects for the territory, socially, economically and environmentally sustainable projects; projects to be able to maintain and enhance all the direct and indirect work places in the districts of Priorat, Baix Camp, Ribera d'Ebre, Terra Alta and Baix Ebre. Because we're working for Catalonia. I, members of the PSC and of the commons, who, as an example, take over from the Fund for the financing of the activities of the generational radioactive waste plan, EUR 468_million by 2020, and with a forecast that until the useful life of nuclear power plants will have recovered some EUR 11,000_million, and that additionally take up some EUR 300_million per year for taxes directly linked to nuclear production, do you know how much the Spanish Government has allocated to donating work alternatives to nuclear areas affected by these closures? Zero_euros. Zero_euros, because no government in Spain has ever invested anything in it. By the end of the year: for the first time, the Government of the Generalitat had data to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. And, obviously, it's pushing a new energy model. So much! But it has to be a distributed, democratic and green energy model. Therefore, we do not share any point of view of your young lady; we have not been able to pose nor agree with the capillary, that we have presented a message to you. And, therefore, the announcement, already, that we will vote against it in its entirety. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.41.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.42.0	Thank you, President. Today we are faced with a motion typical of Citizens: neither chica nor limoná, a moderate centrist, neither here nor there, counterproductive, velvety, insubstantial and with serious technical problems and contradictions. Let us see, the aim of your motion is clear: they want to support nuclear energy, but as long as it is necessary. Well, here's your mistake. Nuclear energy has been necessary so far, is currently needed and will be needed in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the weight of nuclear energy peaked in 2021 and represented 58.7_percent of all electricity generated in Catalonia. In the face of the variability of renewable energy sources, it is necessary to create an energy support system to reduce the uncertainties arising from the intermittence of renewable sources. In addition, we need a basic system of our energy mix that ensures a minimum supply capacity and is free of external volatile factors that can undermine its forecasting capacity. And yes, nuclear energy meets these requirements. Nuclear energy emits the least waste per unit of energy produced. For example, to produce the same amount of energy as a nuclear power plant, a solar plantation needs four hundred - fifty times more surface and also seventeen times more cement, glass, metals, minerals and minerals for its construction. Moreover, if the energy used by the average European throughout his life was produced with nuclear energy, the waste would be in a can of beer. In their motion they also talk about maintaining adequate energy prices to ensure the competitiveness of businesses and access to energy for all citizens. At the same time, demonstrating his party's inconsequential personality, they speak of energy transition, drastic greenhouse gas reduction, decarbonization and future denuclearization. Well, gentlemen of Citizens, I give you a news: you can't be at mass and respite. Its project is incompatible with ensuring affordable prices for families and businesses in Spain. And even more so if they propose to set aside nuclear energy in the medium and long term. They forget to mention and promote in their motion the energy sovereignty of our country, being this the only safeguard to achieve prices that allow Spanish families and companies to leave the ruin to which they have condemned the globalist policies that all of you, except VOX, represent perfectly in this Parliament. Citizens, it is not that you are complicit in the economic disasters that are causing globalist climate policies, it is that you are indispensable actors in them. And they prove it again in this motion. They talk about creating studies to anticipate the labor and economic impact of the denuclearization of Catalonia, referring to the closure of the Ascó and Vandellòs power stations. Look, no more impact studies are needed, what is needed are clear actions to boost nuclear power in our region. Nor do we need any more compensatory or transitional economic plans, and what is needed is to defend the thousands of jobs that the nuclear sector has in Catalonia. We want Spain's energy sovereignty. What's more, we've been saying it for a long time. We repeat it and we will repeat it as many times as it takes: Spain has to reach the maximum degree of sovereignty possible, and that requires an energy mix; an energy mix where the renewables are, yes, but also the hydraulics and nuclear ones. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.43.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.44.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, advisers, deputies and deputies, well, therefore, as the honourable Member has said, we will obviously not change our minds and vote against this young man. They know exactly what we're thinking, because this issue has been discussed at different committees and also here in the plenary. What surprises me is that you, therefore, do not understand or be aware of the difficult situation we are in. We're running straight to the cliffs and not to jump it just by falling into the background, and so we're being told by all the studies that are on the world stage, and you're pretending to reproduce, expand this model, this economic system of the past few years, based on exactly what you're defending at the first point, right? , in a continuous growth, in a permanent growth and, therefore, need more energy. With this young man we see that they only care about this, the old one: the capital and the welfare of a minority. In case they don't think of a proper future, think of today and keep the privileges of this system, that it's not only unfair, but it's destroying all of us levels. The only solution, which we have already made different times in this hemisphere, is to decrease; it is to say, to considerably decrease our energy consumption, to make an energetic transition to ensure a life worthy for everyone. And in no case in this energy transition there comes an enlargement of nuclear life. They're not a solution, but they're a problem. And they're not the solution while we're switching or moving to renewables. The power stations, both in Ascó and in Vandellòs, must be closed, as is expected, the proper years, around 2030, and, in any case, if it widens, as there is an extension, until 2035. But you have to be aware that these centers, when they were designed, were for forty years, that is, their technical design was for forty years, to avoid risks that can be very difficult. And yet, as you already know, the Spanish government, therefore, extended the claim a further decade, initially, with everything that entails, didn't it? When an infrastructure is designed for forty years and the service life is already extended. Nor must they be aware of the problems caused by wearouts, for example, which we have been able to read recently in the diary, but also constant problems, which in fact are many, at the length of these last five years. A report by El Critic tells us of many incidents, even though they are small, of these central ones located in Catalonia. In fact, fifty-four per cent of the Spanish state's nuclear power plant problems go to Catalonia, and we only have three of these reactors, of the seven, so there are. So, therefore, we are not here to represent the nuclear employer, which seems to be what they are doing, which has already been achieved in Europe, right? To make it clear that this, therefore, is a green energy, that nothing happens, that before the energy crisis that we are experiencing, whether it's for war or fuel shortages, that it's an alternative and that it's cheap for businesses, etc. I mean, you guys, in the end, look like the nuclear lobby, defending private businesses that actually... well, you also need to know, don't you? , which are managed by Endesa and Iberdrola, which are the usual and which then complement many political parties with succulent loads of rotating doors. And that for us is the past, it is neither the present nor the future. Neither can they say they're green or non-contaminant, because that's a lie. There are scientific reports that what they show us is that in order to make this enriched fuel, uranium, they emit spectacular amounts of CO2..., of tones, right? A report tells us that, at least, so, in five years, about 458,000 tonnes emit CO2, between these and one million tonnes every five years, only to produce the fuel that will then stop at these nuclear power stations. So, if CO2 is emitted, that is, the fuel that is used by the emitter; also the transport of this one, the mining to extrude it, etc. I mean, it's a totally contaminating font, and some of them want to make it look green. For all this, therefore, our position, as many years ago and as now, is: « Nuclear? No, thank you! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.45.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.46.0	The truth is that I was listening to VOX's intervention and, among other things, I thought you deserved it, the truth, because presenting a young man in defense of nuclear energies has a lot to see as you understand politics. Basically, it's the result of a scholarly study that is based on opening Twitter, seeing that someone has done a tweet that favors nuclear energy, that has a lot of shutdowns and thinking: "Oh, so look, if I do an intervention on nuclear energies, I could also have a lot of shutdowns; Twitter technology. Because he said to us: "I do not know if I will convince them with my intervention. It is that he has said nothing interesting about his intervention; he has not contributed anything given to the debate about the future energy of our country, and his position is a succession of commonplaces, a Twitter thread in this Parliament. Look, nuclear energy has a lot of security problems; we are aware: we have seen Fukushima, we remember all Txernóbil, we have suffered major or minor nuclear accidents in some reactors. But I do not want to focus my intervention here, nor will I focus it on the environmental impact of uranium enrichment, as the CUP's company commented, because I believe that it is a matter of debate that, more or less, we all have apmates, but in the present nuclear sector to the world and Europe, and because we believe that today nuclear is not just, as I said earlier, a safe or sustainable energy, but is not a cheap energy, and it is not an economically sustainable energy for the future of our country. Some say that we are living a nuclear rebirth, the nuclear rebirth, that they say, that already has the name of a bad movie of overlay and of the typical movie that you say: "If I didn't like the movie, the remake this doubt that I just liked. Finland has launched a new nuclear reactor. I don't know why the Liberal Party didn't party in Finland, but I guess it's for the dice. It started in 2005, they thought they would finish it in 2009; they finished it in 2022. And of the 3,000_million euros that it was supposed to cost, it didn't cost 11,000_million; extra costs for a tube. And it passed the same to President Macron, which is true that he presented a project of expansion of nine nuclear power plants, but it is true that he did it after he dropped fifteen per cent of the actions after a nuclear accident and saw cases as disastrous as the nuclear reactor being built in Normandy, Flamanville, which has a cost over €9,300 million and a delay of twelve years. In the United States, the estimated cost overruns in construction have been 322_per_cent. And India, which is one of the last countries to build nuclear reactors, 300_percent overcosts. But the costs aren't just in the construction, they're also in the dismantling. Yankee Road, to the United States : of the 120_millions that were supposed to dismantle it, go for 450_millions. In Spain, this country, where there is also a debate on the costs of nuclear energy and its dismantling, it has already assumed that it will be paid €26,500_million in the planned dismantlings and in the management of nuclear waste, with an extra cost of €2,100_million. Overexpenditure in construction, overexpenditure in management, overexpenditure in service life, including private audits already estimated at more than 3,500_million euros, extending the service life of nuclear power plants, and overexpenditure in dismantling, because there is nothing in this country that pleases a liberal more than the overexpenditure in public works, and if they can pay all the citizens through the bill for the light, better than better. And all this to build an energy system that's deeply anti-knowing. Spain does not produce urans and much less urans enriched, in produce zero. Imports the cent_per_cent of the uranium it consumes. An electrical system unsuitable for the citizenry, because if we have nuclear weapons that we do not have, we have access to the property and to the management of their own energy sources, with obvious risks to health and the environment and, obviously, with costs that will increase and that already make the construction of our nuclear reactors unaffordable. But beyond that, we also need to think about which model we want to produce after nuclear, but also for our energy model. It is expected that renewable energies will generate more than 400,000 jobs, between direct and indirect, in our country, and that, therefore, it is an economic sector of the future and an economic sector that allows citizens to take advantage of nuclear power plants, which are the least jobs that generate per unit of energy produced. For all this, we'll vote no for the young lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.47.0	So finally, to pronounce on the exams, once again hold the word the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.48.0	Thank you, President. We have received two amendments, one from the Government and one from the PSC. The Government's amendment was intended to reintroduce denuclearization. The PSC has also told us in its intervention that why, when we want to talk about energy mix, we focus on nuclear and, come on, we don't hide, we want to talk about nuclear. We all have very clear what we have to do with renewables, which is, especially here in Catalonia, to boost their implementation. We all have very clear what we have to do with the energy sources that emit greenhouse gases; we all have very clear, which is to make them disappear. And the only debate we have on the table is what role nuclear plays in this energy transition in Spain. The nuclear situation is surrounded by uncertainties. My partner Matías and I were able to meet him firsthand. There's uncertainty. There have been changes in what to do with waste, there have been changes in the centralized temporary warehouse for the management of such waste, and it seems that the only thing that cannot be changed is the closing date; it seems that the only thing that is taboo is the ability to move that closing date. We did not hide and the intention of this motion was precisely to put the debate on that closing date on the table. The CSP amendment, with which we have reached a compromise, was about the allocation of resources to the municipalities. It is clear that what concerns them is that in those municipalities where they govern they can continue to have resources. We..., our initiative was more in line with that reindustrialization that we believe is really going to make it possible for the neighbors of those municipalities to continue to maintain their jobs under similar conditions. But if you do not even see yourself able, for we have accepted that transaction, because we will certainly have to allow those municipalities to continue to have resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.49.0	All right, so, we're done with the debate, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna do this noon, one time we're done with the remaining points on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the resources planned for the summer season]] [[302-00155/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the resources planned for the summer season, which the Socialists and Units Group presented to advance, and has the word, to make the presentation, Mrs Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.50.0	Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, last week already explained in the inquiry, that the government is late, and not just for the month in which we find ourselves – that too, huh? – but it's been a long time, because we think we have to present a motion – or a parliamentary initiative, it's the same – as rules on how, how and what we need to do to solve the shortcomings that exist in rescue services and rescue me from beaches and pools..., we don't think it's the most appropriate form. Look, I'm part of this alternate government that so many comments provoke, and laughs. But if we weren't here taxing and proposing better on this subject, we wouldn't see any of the proposals proposed by this motion worthy. I'm sure all of us here share that security in beaches and pools has to be a priority, because what we want all folds is that there are no offenses. And to avoid disgrace what it is to act. And it is as easy as following what our Statute of Autonomy marks, which says that it corresponds to the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia the exclusive competence in the matter of ordering the coast, respecting the general rule of public domain. To make a motion to ask that the law is complete does not cease to be disappointing, but if this motion has to be used to solve the problems in the sector, so welcome continue. In concrete terms, the Ministry works in a coordinated, interdepartmental manner to address such important issues as security, resources and protocols, and to adapt them to the coastal protection and management plan. We ask to strengthen the lines of grants for the joint ventures in order to facilitate the costs derived from this provision of rescue services. We have felt, on various occasions here in this Parliament, that the municipal world must feel accompanied – accompanied by the Generality, obviously. But also, apart from this follow-up, what is needed is that it is backed up with economic resources, because the deputies are already doing their job, but the Generality can't get rid of the chips of its responsibility. It may be necessary to draw up recommendations for safety measures for our beaches and swimming pools. It can effectively solve the implementation of a plan of periodic inspections that guarantees, moreover, the compliment of security conditions and rescue services, and that is carried out before and during the summer. We have to end this breach they have to demand the title that precisely fixes the law, so that, once again, the Generality has approved a moratorium to avoid it. So what we're asking for today in this young man is that he's not producing this mortuary, because it's really very frustrating to go out in this faristol for five years– five years, huh? – and feel that it will be the last year of the moratorium, and go finding us every year with the same problem. Look, we know they have discrepancies between the government – it's not new, it's new, it's -- but Junts for Catalonia believes that this moratorium has to be applied, and, on the other hand, Esquerra says that the law has to be applied. I'll tell you what we think. We are clear – clear, clear – that what we have to do is apply the law that has been approved in this Parliament. It's as easy as that. And, therefore, this is not the time for moratoriums. What it takes is this application. And, therefore, what we know hard is that there has not been a debate and a reflection with the agents involved, those who are involved in it, because they can explain to them that four days from now – four days, eh? because we are very late in June – there will be no mortuary or there will be no mortuary; but nothing has been explained. Therefore, these people have no information and transparency is zero. So, what do we ask? We ask, said this, that they simply apply the law and advance all folds. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.51.0	Now, in the defense of the papers presented, has first the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana, the deputy Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.52.0	Thank you, President. First, I would like to begin by thanking Congresswoman Moreta. I am not part of the government, I was a collaborator of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but I am a deputy and deputy of the support group of the Government, and I want to thank him for his work as a deputy, not as a member of the Government in the shadow, or the alternate government, which has made it easier for us to..., be able to reach agreements. And that's important, because sometimes... always, here in Parliament, we talk about what separates us and what separates us, and being able to make agreements is nice. I also want to thank the work of Mrs Abella, of the Group of the European People's Party, because we have been able to work together in this young man, even though at some point we certainly disagree, but it is also nice when the subject of funds can work with both the group that proposes it as with the member of the government. And we have many coincidences in this young man – we have them. And I don't agree with a statement that's been made and at some point. And, therefore, I feel focused on this discrepancy, which is..., which is said that there is no coordination work between departments. And it's not exactly like that, because there is. One of the points asked of us, which applies the SalvaCat project, so this project is done..., the SalvaCat project, of rescue and rescue in beaches, pools and bany places of Catalonia, intervened the Catalan Council of Esport, the Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences of Catalonia, the General Directorate of Civil Protection, the System of Emergencies of Catalonia and the Aquatic Unit of Mossos. I would say that, at least, there are three departments involved here. But I want to focus on the most nuclear point of this young man. Last year, my company, Núria Picas, succeeded in confirming a decree that extended the moratorium one more year, with the compromise that was behind. And to this compromise we come here and give it a compliment. And this year the government does not want to make a moratorium and wants to apply the law. Because there are three objectives. The first is to dignify the activity of water rescue in Catalonia. To do so, the laws that are in force must apply. If they are not applicable, what this Parliament should have done is change them. The second is to put a focus on a very important issue. In Catalonia, 2021, according to the National drowning report of the State Relief Federation, there were forty deaths in the Bany areas of our country – forty deaths. A death alone would be a catastrophe, it's a personal drama, but forty deaths is already a social problem. It's a social problem of the order... of a magnitude of the accidents we have on the reels. So, they need to hear and we need to be aware that this is a focus of social attention, and it's not there right now. And the third objective is also the improvement in the working conditions of workers in the rescue sector. The application of the law will require a contract of some people with a training and who are in the register of the ROPEC; therefore, the conditions should be improved. But we also understand that this is the first year that a measure of this type applies, that we apply the law. I, therefore, can create tensions, difficulties at gatherings. That is why one of the points we have presented – the only one that has not been admitted, but the Presidency Department will do likewise – is to support and accompany the municipality, especially the smallest. Support and follow-up especially in finding you titled rescues. And this is a compromise that the Presidency Department has. So, in short, our reviews go in three ways. The first is to improve the working conditions of people who do an important job, who die in the bany areas of our country, who are the rescuers and the rescuers. The second is to put attention to the problem of the dead in our country in the aquatic environment. Just as we have the attention to people who die on the reels, we need to have a social focus on this. And the third, in our discussions is the importance of accompanying and supporting the municipalities, especially the little ones, in order to be able to adapt to the regulations and find rescues entitled and titles. And that's a government compromise, and that's where our reviews went. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.53.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs. Jeannine Abella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. The first and vital assistance in the event of an accident is those persons who are responsible for the safety of the aquatic environment; the difference, in many cases, between life and death. But, in change, the people – and I am telling you this from experience – often say: "How good it is that you live! All day long under the sunbathing! And we forget about the most important work of these professionals: prevention. Because establishing good behaviors avoids accidents. And, in the end, the good work of a rescuer must also be measured by the accidents he avoids. And it's the first aspect that we have to work on, in the prevention campaigns, in the guarded bany spots and in those that aren't, such as lacs and laughs, since many deaths by offenses are produced in places without vigilance or outside the watch schedule. We have to professionalize the rescuers. And with this premise it was modified, in 2015, Law 3/2008, which is the legislation that today has had us so far here. From Junts to Catalunya, we will always defend the professionalization of this sector, undervalued per defect, for the simple fact that it is a seasonal job, that it does not only have continuity. Let's talk about the life of a helper, midjana, is from two to four times; with working conditions, for lack of professionals, that end up causing a drop in the rent. In many cases, not having a relapse causes the work to continue from diumenge to diumenge, nine hours a day. And we also have to add the low wages and a long etcetera. With this good will, we promoted a regulation that required some formative conditions that today have caused the profession to remain neither attractive nor viable. Between the two titles that were previously required, that were terrestrial and aquatic, and the four hundred training hours of today, there has to be a medium term that guarantees the proper rescue and rescue service without causing a shortage of professionals. That said, we are in favour of many of the points of the motion: setting up a committee to set up security protocols and provide them with resources; issuing recommendations for security measures to plagiarism and funding places endorsed by the Civil Protection Commission; promoting a debate with the agents involved to improve the working conditions of the rescue workers. Yeah, everything. Now, and assuming my guilt and self-criticizing as a group in the government, we cannot accept that this year is not a moratorium, demanding the ROPEC and activating the sanctioning regime. And I know it hurts to ask her again, but what we can't be is that we only remember from the rescue in May and during the year there's nothing, that's addressing the root of the issue. After a moratorium, a debate had to be held about what model of rescue and rescue we want in Catalonia, which has not happened, and now we have a problem. With various groups of this chamber, we have agreed that it is necessary to modify the regulations, to make the formation attractive without giving up quality, to unify the conditions and the rates of vigilance to the plagiarisms, including to plan us to which department these professionals must be, since by default we fit them in Esports. I, you'll forgive me, but a rescuer isn't a sportsman. And here's another clix, which is that beach watchers have done a lot of damage. In politics, responsibility must be assumed and, when it comes down, recognition must be given to what has not been done very well. What we cannot do today from this Parliament is to transfer responsibility to our mayors and mayors. And this premise affects the entire municipal world; therefore, all groups of this chamber – well, almost all of them. Together for Catalonia, it will not be responsible for the fact that the municipal pools cannot be opened for the next few days; that the companies that have concessions with the joint ventures cannot complete the contracts for lack of professionals with ROPEC; that private pools are sanctioned for not having properly qualified rescues. No change in regulations, we need a moratorium, which, I repeat, is not the definitive solution and we need to get to work from today on looking for it. In many towns, the municipal pool is the find point, the dynamizer of all generations. We're looking at a summer season that's predicted to have an affluence and temperature record. We're from a pandemic that's paralyzed him, and people are gonna win. To many people, too, the only opportunity that children and children have to learn to nest is to do the summer runs. This is also prevention and this also saves lives. Can you imagine the pools of our towns and cities shut down? They won't come looking for us; they'll go looking for the mayor; mayor who will certainly have done all he can to find a rescuer who doesn't exist today. I'm done, President. In the same way that without shepherds there has been no revolution, we must realize that without help there has not been. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.55.0	After the defense of the papers presented, she continues to have the word to fix her position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, Members of Parliament. News of May 15, 2019: « High-risk season due to lack of rescue workers in Catalonia. News from June 3rd, last week: "Helpers are missing thousands. Two news, three summers of difference, the same bad government at the national and Catalan levels. And a common minimum denominator: we have too restrictive legislation and an extremely precarious labour market in terms of rescue and rescue. In general, this motion tabled by the PSC is a finding of three considerations: the PSC continues to act as a crutch of separatism; the PSC operates completely away from reality, and it is necessary to simplify and amortize rescue and rescue legislation at the national level. We are faced with a sector and a geographical area that has suffered, in recent years, the ominous management of the Generalitat de Catalunya, in combination with the ambiguity complicit of Catalan socialism. The socialist chandelier explains itself. The Government of Sánchez takes the Catalan cost law to the Constitutional Court; the Constitutional Court suspends the law, so that, months later, it lifts the suspension by considering that the Government has not explained what are the serious damages to maintain it. In February 2022, this year, we know that the Constitution completely rejects the socialist remedy and allows the Generalitat to allow the municipalities to organize activities that involve the occupation of the state public domain. And all this other people's shame disaster, in just a few months. Secondly, it is shown that the Catalan Socialists are completely removed from the field and, as usual, do not know the needs and actual situation of the sector. In their sixth point of this motion, they call for compliance with the current regulations, requiring the specific titling of rescue and rescue and not applying, one more year, the moratorium. Thousands of rescuers are missing. Gentlemen of the PSC, we already know that it is in the DNA of socialism to omit reality, to manage in an ineffective and inefficient way, not to understand basic economic concepts of supply and demand and to complicate the lives of workers and entrepreneurs. But have they not realized that the existing legislation does not work? In addition, despite its restrictions, Catalonia continues to lead the deaths of water drownings in Spain. Palabras de la Asociación de Empresas Catalanas de Socorrismo Acuático : « In Catalonia there are not enough professionals who meet the conditions that mark the regulations, due to the lack of forecasting and the lack of knowledge of the sector by the Administration that manages the regulation of the degrees. What we ask from VOX is for an urgent dialogue to be opened with the water rescue and rescue sector, in order to simplify, deregulate and remove as far as possible the entry barriers of workers and professionals of water rescue and rescue. And all of this doing what's compatible with safety on our beaches. In this motion, they call for administrative infringements to be applied and plans to inspect rescue and rescue companies to be increased. A perfect recipe to further reduce the supply of employment, discourage demand, reduce the number of rescue workers on our beaches and, consequently, increase the insecurity and lack of maritime surveillance. Finally, and thirdly, this issue notes, once again, the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of autonomous legislation and the need to achieve national legislative harmonisation that increases transparency, facilitates the development of private initiative, reduces uncertainties, eliminates legislative overlaps and enables market unity to be achieved. In conclusion, pay attention to the Spanish chorus. If you want to reduce the sector's job insecurity, increase the demand for work and improve the security of the Catalan coast, stop creating problems and soiling and complicating legislation. The cleanest house is not the one that gets the most wiped out, but the one that gets the least dirty. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.57.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Now a year ago, according to Decree Law 14/2021, it has already introduced, as they said before, a moratorium so as not to apply the legislation in the matter of rescue and in the matter of requests. We didn't oppose each other, because it turned out that this would be the last year. As they said before, the day of the marmot or the year of the marmot and we already carry it. Therefore, they cannot be in favour of a moratorium when there was precisely a compromise that this is not repeated. Because it's because, if not, we're afraid that if we defend a moratorium again the year came we'll find ourselves just like this, that the previous, that the previous, that the previous, that the previous and that the previous. It is also clear that the Català de l'Esport Council is bolcaria, in small municipalities with problems, in order to get you entitled rescues and that, therefore, it is possible to complete with the register as the law makes. And that's also one of the commitments that there was, and for what it looks like, neither did it. And it also justified this law by the fact that we were in a pandemic situation and that this made it impossible to make the commitments that had been made in the previous year. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the motion, but we also want to raise another question, which is the structural causes for which we think there is a lack of rescuers with title. Basically, three questions: low wages, marathon work days and seasonal and discount work. Therefore, it is a sector with special precariousness, and it is a sector which, even if in particular precariousness, is carried out mostly by administrations. The sector has been demanding, for many years, that the administrations should be assisted, that it should be resolved to try to stop this problem and that it should be put to pieces. They demand, for example, an agreement of the sector. They ask, for example, that if you want to make some normal change you study. And above all, they urgently need to address precariousness in the sector. Therefore, we think that the key is here, because, as a rescuer once said: "I have a sum of EUR 1 000 per month. She's asking for sixty hours a week. It's not complete with hours of rest. I work three months and the rest of the year I have to look for life. Obviously, as they say before, we cannot agree with what is being raised to the law of the offer and the demand and with the deregulation, but we must go precisely to the contrary, which is the intervention of the Administration; if not, we will not find solutions. So I leave it here. And, therefore, show that we will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.59.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.60.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... now the MP of the CUP, huh? : day of the marmot. It was July 21, 2021, just a year ago, when we were debating this same situation, validating Decree 14/2021. Always the last hour, because we always do it, so, the enmig or all right at the beginning of the summer. Decree, of course, introduced by Councillor Elena. I say so, because in the inquiry it seemed that there was some confusion about who was to be questioned and from whom this question is competent; in any case, last year, the decree that we validated was presented to the Councillor of the Interior. A decree in which therefore..., well, what was given to the motius exposition is that a new moratorium is made – and it was already for six years – because the law of accompanying assumptions of the year 17 had already foreseen a moratorium until September 2019. Then came the vat; then the vat justified a new moratorium until September 2020, didn't it? And with some confusion as to whether the motivating of the moratorium... the initial seemed to be, therefore, the lack of personnel in the field of rescue; then it was the own virus, and we never know where we've just been. Certainly, the past year is going to say: "This will be the last year. The year you see us, we'll figure it out. I don't seem to be like that. All folds place us in a very uncertain _mark, we believe, in this question; uncertainty for different reasons, huh? : Uncertainty due to lack of information, I believe, and knowledge of which is the real situation, right? I mean, we don't know exactly, so who are the people we need to help us with our landings? We haven't been able to do this – and this is a topic that hasn't been said and I think it's important to situate it – to also adapt these needs to the new reality of climate change. That is to say, I don't know if you went to the plaza this week or the past or the previous, but the plagiarism was full, and therefore the summer season and the season in which we have to ensure vigilance to the plagiarism is certainly also to be deseasonalized, as we do, for example, with the fires, and therefore we also need to review questions like this. So, uncertainty about who the need is, uncertainty about who is the availability of resources we have, and lack of clarity about the situation itself, huh? Because it's a sector that's considered sporty, but it's not, is it? ; that it should be, we believe, considered in the framework of civil protection; that it is an activity without a specific regulation and a proper legal framework. And here's where we think we need to put order and develop a legislative framework, a specific legislation. As have other territories that have a similar situation to ours in the measure that they have sun and plagiarism tourism, such as the Canaries or the Balearics, that do have a regulation, a specific legislation of the sector – certainly, worked with the local world. And that's another element of uncertainty, too, isn't it? , that it is not only difficult to know who should do so at the level of competition between the Government of the Generality between the different departments, but also in the paper that must play the joints, which, obviously, from a principle of subsidiarity – that defended the councillor and that we share – must have a very important paper, but at the same time we also believe, therefore, that we need to establish shared requirements, minimum requirements. Now the deputy of Junts was talking about unifying conditions, raties; there's all the question of the formation. Therefore, there is a series of parameters that we understand that they should be coordinated and that, therefore, from the Government of the Generality, guarantees are offered in this sense. Therefore, before a situation of uncertainty, complexity, difficulties, the motion that they put to us from the PSC – which, of course, we would like to put to us the topic on the table, unfortunately, right? One more year – therefore, we talk about the need to coordinate, which we share, the need to improve training, the need to provide resources to the local world, which we also share. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of the conjunction of this young man, and also of point 6, which is the one that has aroused the most trouble. But, obviously, we understand that, as I said, it is a specific legislation of its own, but what we cannot do is go from one year to another for six years. And it is said the year before that this would be the last; therefore, it must be the last. And, therefore, we would vote in favour of not applying the moratorium one more year. For our part, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.61.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.62.0	MPs, MPs, President, Councillor... Mrs Moreta, I appreciate that a group once a month, or sometimes the government, too, during all these very years, already, we carry on as a moratorium, so I bring the debate to this Parliament. And I think it's important that it's done, I think it's important that it's done and that some of the situations that we've been living precisely in this rescue and rescue world in Catalonia are changed. I remember well that in 2017, August 2017, Ciutadans brought a motion for a resolution, which I have here– in fact, my partner Laura Vílchez brought it and recorded it –, where it was already talked about this, where it was precisely explained that the situation that we had with the relief workers in Catalonia was, therefore, impractical. We asked to increase the centres where we could, for example, form. An approval and accreditation of the training is required, make it easier. It was already asked, in that motion for a resolution, things as simple as making an annual plan of periodic inspections, and above all that there are concrete criteria with the joints, working with the joints, because there is a unit of action at the time to decide whether or not there is a rescue person or a person who rescues beaches and other centres such as pools, and obviously also other aquatic spaces. So he wanted me to have a debate. And that, therefore, is a little bit, to answer the Member of the European Parliament for Catalonia, who I understand now asking for a debate to be held and for legislative initiatives to be modified – surely the law that was made must be changed, which was approved at the time – but, of course, it is that we get the press when one_me is missing, or we are already in the summer campaign. And this, from our group, we think is not viable or at least not possible. We can't accept that now we need a debate. I say again: on the 17th, in August 2017 we raised this debate, but, of course, what happened on the 17th? What happened the late 17th? There were other priorities, as always. This has happened a lot in Catalonia, in many fears, that they have remained in the folds – in this case, an analogy, therefore, that may be worth – and that they have not moved from there, and that we are going to find ourselves, again again a year, in this Parliament. Therefore, we will not enter the debate and this, say, lack of coordination, which is one thing we ask as a group, which the first thing they have to do for this issue and to deal with this issue is that there is coordination between the Government, between the Republican Left and between Junts. I see that, in this case, therefore, the only important disjunct that there is is that point 6 says there should be no moratorium, and some groups or their group, the Junts group for Catalonia, says yes. We think there's enough of moratoria. It's just that, in fact, I think we've already found each other... we're going to find each other, on various issues, approved laws that never implement each other and that we're going to ask for moratoria a year ago, and that no one is going to, when they pass the summer, give them an answer. Therefore, I know that there is a debate and I know that the world, especially the small towns and the rural world, swimming pools, for example, can have problems being opened in the summer; but that is why we have already asked at its time for an approval, because a lot of people who are working as a rescuer can be and be professional and be able to enter this definition. So, no more mortuary. From our point of view, we don't think so. Let's face the debate now or when it is, but let's take the debate after the summer, that maybe we'll all be a lot more calm and calm, and then we'll check whether it can be done or can be changed, so these legislative regulations and adapt them to what's already in other territories and other autonomous communities in Spain, where it works perfectly and there's no such problem. We wanted to do different things and they didn't work out, so let's change them. But what we can't do is look at another side continuously, because in the end it doesn't work and it's a bump, basically. So, I think at this point, so, there's not much more to say. No more housing, we complete what we have to do and we have this debate when you need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.63.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.64.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll do it from the escho, quickly. It seems to us that this is a relevant proposal. In fact, I think that in order to bring it to a group of opposition, it would have to be the proper government that was in these questions, because, more than that, so it seems that the summer season has advanced and, in fact, we have already had difficulties, unfortunately, in this matter of relief. For what it does at point 6, which is what creates a little more controversy, after listening to the interventions of the rest of the spokesman, with the moratorium, so we think that there is enough. It's true, the Junts MP said, that without help there's no summer season, but, man, it's that we're five years old with the moratorium, this would be the sixth year, and so maybe we're a little late. And I think the government, in this sense, would have to put the batteries down. It seems that now Esquerra Republicana wants to end this moratorium and already apply the legislation once and for all and, therefore, we agree. I think we've had some time and we can't be based on moratoriums and getting stuck that in the end don't solve the problem. Therefore, we will give full support to all points of this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.65.0	Thank you very much. So finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Deputy Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.66.0	Well, I wanted to answer Mr. Rodriguez, but I won't answer because it's not there. Ah! All right, fine, Mr. Rodriguez. So, miri, we're not... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There's always a sound. All right. [[Rialles.]] Mr. Rodriguez, don't see him sitting here, now I see him here. Look, we're not running in the shadows, we're running alternately. We're not in the shade, we're well lit– well lit, huh? [[Greetings.]] You said to me, "No, it's just that I don't agree with that, because we're coordinated. No, no, if I said to the young lady, "There are various departments involved, here, the problem is that they are not coordinated. There's a lot of departments in there, but coordinates, coordinates... no, huh? No, no, Then, to Mrs. Abella. Look, I said it and I'll say it again here: if they wanted to make a change to the law they could do it from September – September, October, November, December... They had too many months to do it, and they didn't do it. So now there's no excuse. We have a law and we simply comply with it. Something else. To the Lord... Mrs. Lozano, yes. I liked the phrase he said: "Saved by independence. Caram, you better say, huh? Saved. But do you know what's going on? What, here, enough frivolities. Because we need you to help me get the title. And here's not the field that can. No, no, we want professionals to know what they have to do, please. To Mr. Pellicer. We agree, Mr. Pellicer. I've said: under precaritzats, newspapers that are huge, poorly paid... So, we agree, because we've already explained it. To Mr. Parés. Yes, I said: five years ago, we asked for it – five years ago. He always tells us: "No, it will be the last, it will be the last, it will be the last... So we agree. To Mr. Garcia: Obviously. And I'm done, because I've been interrupted for a moment, President... of the papers, the four papers that there have been, two we've traded, one we've accepted and one we've rejected. And, obviously, the only thought that there were of Junts for Catalonia, which demanded the moratorium, we would not accept it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.67.0	All right. We will then proceed to the twenty-one point of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of feminist policies of the Department of Equality and Feminism]] [[302-00159/13]] I would like to thank the Parliamentary Group in Comú We may have facilitated the fact that the adjournment of the motion for item 17 that we had today in the order of the day..., we have allowed ourselves to advance the later of the motions of this late and so do not end at these times the session, only to be able to take advantage of this moment until midday. Also to all the Members who intervene and who have also managed to make this change and to all the parliamentary servants who have allowed it. And, therefore, we move on to the motion following the question to the Government on the balance of feminist policies of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, which the Parliamentary Group of Common We can introduce. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.68.0	Thank you, President. I also want to thank all the groups for the predisposition they've had to do with this, because there's more to see with feminism, isn't there? , to be able to advance this half hour late. And, above all, make it easier not only for Members and Members to leave before, but for all the people who work in Parliament to make our work possible, who are left behind after us to leave – for example, all the press companies – so they can also fold a button before. Because, really, ending up at nine o'clock in the night a ple, very feminist isn't. The object of the inquiry... also, in fact, I want to take advantage to excuse the counselor, who has informed us that she could not arrive just for the hour change. And in this sense, we know that he will surely follow the debate through... you will see the debate differently. As I've already commented to the councilwoman, this inquiry, in fact, is an inquiry that we think is almost..., and they'll let me say it, huh? Why are we doing the councillor a favor with this inquiry and with this motion? Because what we're basically doing is asking for more resources for the council, more structure for the council, and making it more like the rest of the government's departments when it wants to implement and transversalize feminist policies. So, in this case, I don't think they'll be able to complain that it's actually a sorority exercise from our group to the government and above all to the Women's Council. Because, as we say, we are concerned about this idea that the government is thinking of having a feminist government and the famous feminist transformation that is on one of the axes that President Aragonès marked only if he has a council of Equality and Feminisms. And that I have a council of Equality and Feminisms, so we already have the expedient of feminist transformation covered. No, no, It's not like that. And it's not like that and we're worried, because, what we've been seeing this year, it seems like it's going on here. That's why the young man was in line with what we raised in the inquiry, and what we do is basically ask for more resources for feminist policies and more structure for the councillor of Equality and Feminisms; a councillor, who upstairs is not having the support and the structure and the human and economic resources needed to be able to cope with all the challenges that are raised if we really think we need to make a feminist transformation during this legislature. And what do we say: that they understand the difficulties of putting in the way of a council, so one year after that can no longer be an excuse. There's already been time to generate the entire structure. There was already time to have some assumptions that were approved thanks to the fact that our group decided to put this responsibility forward, despite the fact that there were many things, including the assumption of the Women's Council, that we had not just seen, because we thought that it was necessary that we could get rid of this new assumption. But when we see the value that the same Women's Councillor does on a Twitter feed, or that the President of the Government does with Vice President Puignero when they present the evaluation of the year, then clearly, of male violence speaks of the decree of male violence, which very well, that this Parliament validated, but that this, resources and concrete actions are not. It's important, but it's not enough. That it's about allocating more resources to women's sport; that it's important, but it's not enough. That concrete things are missing to deploy these feminist policies. This is why the first point clearly points to the need for resources. And, besides, it's fixed a minimum percentage for feminist policies, those that run the counseling and those that run all the departments. Obviously, a percentage that you do not cheat, because when we pose as feminist politics the gratuity of the P2, so man, yes, but no; because, among others, they are resources that do not only have to see with feminism, that incorporate, yes, a perspective of conciliation, but more than that it is not universal. Clearly, if we put all the assumptions of the Department of Education as feminist policies, maybe we'll get to this or percent, but we'll be making a little trap all folded up. Or if we own the whole Health Department, because they hold women. So no, this isn't feminist politics, and I think the councilwoman is aware of it. And when we talk about this, about this assumption, it is specifically for policies of transversalization of feminism and equality between men and women and of attention to LGBTI people. And I only have one minute left. I won't be able to talk about all the points in the young lady. The fate is that they have it, they can read it and they can prove that we really try to respond to concrete and viable proposals, especially in the relationship with the joints, that they are complaining that there is still no programme contract and that they are betting on a line of support for the joints through annual grants. This does not allow planning equalization policies at the joints. That many complaints from entities that are not paying in time, that are advancing their money, that they are now closing, that they are no longer providing the service, AADAS, one of the recognized institutions in their attention to victims of sexual violence; that we are living in a very difficult situation of entities, that they already tell us that they can no longer, because they are supplanting where not above the council. That the right to privacy must be guaranteed throughout the public system, with the right to decide in an informed way which mechanism. To the discussions I will comment on those presented to us by the other groups, which I also want to thank that many of them have served to improve the youth. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.69.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mònica Lora, Member of Parliament, has the first word on behalf of the defence panel of the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.70.0	Well, good morning. Thank you. Well, in Comú Pomero, in his interpellation, he made a very positive assessment of the first year of the council of Equality and Feminisms, but we consider that that is far from the reality, because the council of Equality and Feminisms is not a reflection of what concerns Catalans; it is a council to obtain political revenue at the expense of politicizing the drama of women who suffer violence, a council that violates equality between men and women and a council to place their own. And not only that, but a consulting firm to exercise leashes to transmit lobbies. And in their motion, from the perspective of their feminism, they call for that feminism that collects and instrumentalizes women, in short, to increase the budget for policies of their exclusive feminism in all departments of the Generalitat; to hire more staff to promote more discriminatory policies; more money for their entities; more resources to guarantee abortion, and to strengthen sex education in schools. And we are going to focus especially on three of the initiatives. And one of them, because we think it is scandalous that the Government of the Generalitat presumes to guarantee the right to abortion, rather than creating, precisely, a network of support for pregnant women so that they do not feel compelled to make that decision, which is a real drama and a tragedy that will mark them for the rest of their lives. Why do they not talk, for example, about abortion, all those women, and the drama of women who, unfortunately, have already had to abort? They have had to abort because from the administrations and, in this case, from this very case, they have not given them any help nor have they given them any option to be able to carry on, and they are now devastated because they have had no alternative on the part of the public administration. Women, that the only solution they were given was abortion, instead of offering an alternative, because you, from the Generalitat, and most parliamentary groups, do not defend women's right to be mothers. Instead, we, from VOX, unlike you, argue that birth must be fostered, that the family must be protected and that motherhood and fatherhood must be exalted and protected. [[Greetings.]] And another of his initiatives is the already famous Coeduca't program, which aims to corner the family by putting emotional and sexual education in the hands of a unique and partisan school that hypersexualizes children and in which the right of parents to educate children is not respected. For example, we can talk about a workshop, and this doesn't invent it for me, this is reflected in the Coeduca't program..., we can talk about the workshop called Sensations, where we intend to explore masturbation in childhood as a normalized fact. And we're talking about a workshop that's focused on kids between the ages of three and six. And this, excuse me, this is not education. So let's make it clear: no to Coeduca't. And then, finally, we do want to say that we have tabled several amendments to this motion. Specifically, we have tabled four amendments, but we want to focus and emphasise one point in the amendments, which is on the subject of forced marriages. Because if they had set aside their ideology, we could have voted in favour, for example, of this point of forced marriages, because since VOX, in recent months, both my colleague Sergio Macian, and I, for example, in the Equality Commission, have already put forward several initiatives to combat and prevent this scourge of forced marriages. And we think that as long as we continue to deny the origin of the problem, which is nothing other than the import of illegal immigration and the rise of Islamic fundamentalism in our region, we will not be able to end this scourge. And that is why we, in the majority of the proposals put forward today in this motion, will not be able to give support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.71.0	On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mrs Gemma Lienas has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.72.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs, MPs, MP Segovia. I have to tell you that when we read the motion of the group of commons we were stunned; not because we see it badly, from the point of view of the contents, but because it seemed excessive to us. If they've studied it, they must have seen that it's not a youth of these that we sometimes do, but it's a youth that looks like the development of the government program of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. There's no point missing. That is why we have two things to say: one, which must not be certain that, at this time, a compliment of the thirty-four per cent of the government program has been achieved, and if you vote affirmatively, you will confirm it; and two, that the hardship we expressed in the plenary two weeks ago regarding the low execution of the premise of Equality and Feminisms, only fifty-six per cent, has affected, and many, feminist policies. It's a big deal, it's all folded up. My group has submitted four papers, of which two have been accepted, and two have not. One accepted refers to the need for protocols against sexual harassment to be registered just as equal plans are, because if we don't have them registered, it's very difficult to be able to do inspections and a check-up. The other accepted theme is that it refers to a young woman we presented a few months ago, who was talking about the pre-work formation of women in a vulnerable situation. And we've asked that women victims of male violence, of course, be able to embrace them. Another of the issues that has not been accepted was: « Ensure that when a cultural entity makes a reservation of a public space for a long time an event women can access and participate in it without any discrimination on the grounds of sex. We incorporated this thought after talking to Mrs. Huma Jamshed, President of the Cultural and Educational Association of Pakistani Donations. And we got rid of the murder of those two Pakistani women from Terrassa to Pakistan because they did not accept the forced marriage that they had imposed on them. The Huma Jamshed insisted very much on the need to change minds in order to help the women. And it is true that in the Pakistani community, and in any other patriarchal community – in Catalan as well – standards are lowered, sometimes, because women are admitted to it. And as the show, this hemicicle. The other point that has not been approved said: "To make educational and awareness campaigns based on recent studies in our country on the effects of child pornography and the relationship between it and sexual violence. We do not have the same idea with the commons as pornography represents in the modeling of the sexual behavior of our creatures. Our creatures access the porn of the eight years and, from this moment on, they begin to learn to get excited with the violence and normalize the violence. I recommend a book that is very interesting about the Monica Alario that is called Sexual Pornography Policy, because we are not the ones who say it, but the specialists say it, that there is a relationship between pornography and the increase in sexual violence among minors. Of course, I take advantage of the fact that I'm here to get you all my escalph and my support for Mrs. Alario, who has rejected a brutal assault on the gangs for her views on pornography. And lastly, the position of my group respects this motion has changed from the points introduced. As the title says, it was a feminist movement and the content was a content for women, but now it's changed. Women are not a collection, we are half the population. We women have problems and needs that require different policies and solutions, as shown in this Parliament, that make different policies for women and for each of the collections. To give you an example, a few moments ago in the Commission of Igualtat I put forward a proposal for a resolution on the climate control system. The governing groups wanted to introduce the menstruation. I asked that no, that was a motion for a resolution on the climate change. Well, this young man was not for the collectius, but for the women; but now, with the introductions, many have been introduced: LGTBI, racializations, migrants, refugees... We want the women to make it clear that our Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units are the ones who defend the rights of women. Look, you end up doing the same thing as the extreme right, but with different words. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The extreme right says... let me talk? The extreme right says: "Male violence does not exist, there is only intrafamily violence. You say: "All the violins are the same and can be dealt with at once. Result? The struggle against male violence is diluting, but women continue to murder us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.73.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, first of all, thank the group of the commons for presenting this motion, because they made this inquiry, and that we can, somehow, all have an evaluation debate for a year of feminist policies. Because, as Segovia also indicated, the fact of entering into a discursive rhetoric of feminist transformation, one year after we have to see whether this rhetoric has materialized or not and how we can help make it really materialistic in concrete questions. We find very positive, from this point of view, the three fundamental aspects, in general terms: that I am talking about providing concrete resources, concrete terms and practical services. Because, if not, then, we always have a theory and a speech that does not transcend or solve material questions. Now, we have wanted to complement, through some papers, all the proposals put forward, based on a very clear concept that I believe is best expressed through a quote, in this case of the Mikki Kendall, which says: When the foundations of feminist rhetoric are eroded by racism, capacitism, transmissionogyny, anti-Semitism and Islamophobia, they are systematically used against marginalised and vulnerable women and against any concept of solidarity. It is not enough to know that there are other women with different experiences, it must also be understood that they have their own feminism based on this experience. Bringing together the last part of Mrs Lienas' intervention, because it makes explicit reference to the points that we have presented – and obviously we cannot lose the opportunity to confront white feminism, because, if not, we would not be ourselves – simply comment that the points presented, taking into account and before directly attacking the subject of feminism, giving it a realistic perspective on material issues of the effects of patriarchal, institutional and systemic violence, speak of extending this subject of feminism to sexual dissent, anti-racism and migration. Because, going back to quote another time... and in the end we'll recommend his book, since today he also recommended books. "We are not here to gather your broken dishes, to carry your lance, to grab your hand, or to cheer you while we skate in silence. We are not here to raise your children, calm your guilt, build your placards, or deliver your battles. We're here for our community, because no one will give their face to us, except ourselves. The ideas that we have presented make sense of the reality of many women who also see other ways and their problems are also feminist questions that cannot be addressed only from the point of view of oppression, such as, in this case, the genera. We will vote in favour of the majority of points, except for some that we have encountered problems after the transactions and submissions presented, such as, for example, the one relating to the nominative grants. We cannot give support to normalising the exceptionality that there are no public competitions, that it is not considered before other questions such as delegated management or concertation, that of not being directly served but giving a margin, we understand, of wide participation and selection of entities that develop these services, and therefore we cannot give support to this concept of nominative subsidies. Also the equal plan, the point on the equal plan the problem finding, because currently there is no web where these equal plans are to be recorded, and it is one of the things that we have talked about several times when we have valued the deployment of Law 17/2015, and this same proof can be made at this very moment when the Department of Enterprise and Treball has removed, from the web page, the option where these equal plans can be presented. Apart from being the business that we have already commented on several times when different private businesses and entities are developing these equality plans, working with a question that the same businesses should pass [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I'm done, President – for this process, so that these equality plans were effective. And then we end up also on the issue of pre-vocational training, also focusing on the fact that there is also a negotiation through the motion that we presented, in which we also voted against that concrete point, precisely because it encouraged the outsourcing of this pre-vocational training service. Finally, we find it very appropriate to review the criteria for subsidies to entities and procedures to address 'fat-flying through food-related disorders, obviously the ratification of ILO Convention 189 on respect for the work of the world, which is in fact speaking to the Congress today as well. And above all, we also find very positive the approach of the programme contract, part of which has been commented by the deputy Segovia also, because it implies a precariousness of the working conditions of the staff of the local administration, which is mainly a body of women and which is very significant that the Council of Feminisms precisely precarious the working conditions of the public workers in the local areas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.75.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Senyora Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good morning to everyone. Go so far as to fully agree that the Government has invested as many resources as possible to address all feminist policies in a direct and cross-cutting manner. We are aware of the economic situation that Catalonia has at the moment, it is not the expectation, and we have a fiscal policy that we all skate every day. The resources are to be managed in the best possible way, and that's really what this government does, because the government of the Generality governs, much so that some say otherwise. That's what I want to say to you that we probably want to have more resources, but unfortunately we don't have them. Since the Administration we have to be compromised to the cent_per_cent with prevention, approach, the follow-up of women who suffer any expression of male violence or discrimination by reason of gender. This is a very difficult situation that we cannot continue living in our society. Catalonia is a modern country and we aspire to be much more. Genre rape can't fit into our society, as I said. It is for this reason that some of this phony want to publicly denounce the situation so unfair that many women suffer. And now, I'm going to degrate you some of the points of the motion, and I'm going to start with transversality. If we have a council of Equality and Feminisms from this legislature, the gender policies that include must affect all areas of government, and that's how they do it, or how they've been doing it for a year. We're chasing the territory. As important is transversality as territoriality. I think that much more emphasis needs to be placed on this subject than on Lleida's land. The organization network and the services of gender policies need to be very present throughout the territory so that our rights are guaranteed throughout the country. I add that Catalonia is a country that is characterized by a network of volunteers, and in this sense I also want to give great value to the great pocket of non-governmental organizations and bar associations that end up with this very good management. I wouldn't want to name them because I don't want to leave any, since I could be hours and hours naming them, but I would like to express from this Faristol my sincere thanks for the pocket they make for all of us every day. For another band, the pandemic has posed very complex situations. We have been aware of the figures that, due to reports or abuses during the pandemic, have increased considerably. We could see that during the pandemic there were some very important territorial differences. On issues of sexual and reproductive rights, for example, in the pandemic we saw that there were inequalities above all at the time of this service. From here I also want to thank the Health Department for all the efforts it has made to guarantee this service to all the citizens and all the women of this country. Also for what it does to the emergency services, habitats, SIAD, hospitals, jutjats, all departments have done their work in a transversal way and we must continue this way. I focus on one of the themes that is most important and that, without a doubt, is prevention: sex-affective education and co-education. We know that 2019 has passed a motion so that sex-affective education is mandatory in all segments of compulsory education and in a cross-sectional way in the academic curriculum. Inexplicably, Spain is the only country in the European Union that has not foreseen sex-affective education or co-education in its curriculum, for the great pesso of Catholic England in education in this country. Since 2019, the Coeduca't programme has not yet been implemented. And it's much more complicated now, at the height of the extreme right, that directly attacks this type of education with the mantra that is part of the genera agenda. Finally, I commend you for this young man, who has a very comprehensive approach and a restorative look. But I need to think about it, because we need to work harder than the mainstream of proactive policies, so that women, young people, have opportunities to develop freely as they do and, at the same time, be judged for what they do or what they want to do. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.77.0	Thank you very much. And finally, in this block of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.78.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. It is good that we have made it clear that there are 'feminisms', because there have been various Members here speaking, right? , various ways of hearing feminism. I think it's a good thing, and I think we need to be able to confront parliamentary groups as well, which is what we think about which is the will and the ability and power that feminism has in our society. Well, as the young man is very broad and perhaps difficult to comment on in five minutes in all his magnitude, I would like to highlight three things. The first, the question of time. It's true that what we do is a scale, isn't it? A year old. It is true that what we were doing was building a building, which was not easy, because it was necessary to redefine the skills, management, design, leadership and, therefore, it had to be done with an interdepartmental and also cross-cutting look. We already know that these two words that they mean are adding to it, so a level of complexity that they don't have, right? other skills that are more concrete and that make it difficult. But we are also aware that one year is enough, that in one year we should begin to move to the next stage and there are compromises. We are all committed, from the government, to parliamentary groups that we support the government. And so, we understand... from the extreme right, don't we? They were talking about the advice she wants to politicize. Indeed, what we want is to politicize many of the issues that they have to do with women, who have historically been invisible. And when we talk about politicizing, we are actually talking about what this motion proposes, which is about human resources and economic resources. And he's very curious... and he said this about feminism, because for me there are two very important things in this young man. One is the aneurysm – which I then enter –; but the second that I thought was very important was, precisely, that with the ideas presented by the UPC there was this will that we said yesterday with the LGTBI law, which is that the struggles cannot be separated, they are not incompatible, they are not indivisible. And, therefore, he's very curious, isn't he? We see here in this rostrum how there is a feminism that wants to expel the fight LGTBI and the anti-racist struggle and how there are other feminisms that do not contemplate a way of fighting that does not go together. And, therefore, I think it's quite different from denying male-based violence and saying that it's intra-family violence, and another thing, that it's what we're saying about trans-inclusive and anti-racist feminism, that what we're denying is not male-based violence, and what we want is not to draw down male-based violence, but to understand that the origin of this violence is patriarchal and that the origin of this violence is shared, with its specificities, of course, but that the origin of the aggressor and of this aggression and of these structural violations are shared with LGTBI-phobia, with racism and with masculism. Therefore, two questions. The first, the avortion. The term we understand was inexhaustible, these three_months, but there are no more excuses. And, therefore, I believe that, from our parliamentary group, what it is, therefore, to send this message: that there is enough, that the rights of women and of pregnant persons, that the right to abortion..., that it is a fundamental right, that it is a very concrete right that has historically been invisible; that it has been a taboo and that, therefore, while it was a taboo, for many of the women who had to access this right, it was invisible and silent. So we understand that the institutions are still cheating somehow, but now they are, the women have raised the veil, the pregnant people have raised the veil..., which, by the way, we believe, right? , that puts the focus in which we cannot invisibly all realities. And, for another band, the entities are also complaining about land grabs. And, therefore, there are no more excuses. And, therefore, we understand that these three_months, although they are inexhaustible and that we understand the difficulties of deploying territorial equity and the right to abortion, to be informed, that everyone is informed and that they are willing, right? We understand the difficulty, but we also understand that there are no more excuses and that we can no longer afford to be a historically up-to-date right. For another band, we talked about motherhood and awe as a tragedy. What's a tragedy is having a child or a daughter with sex not allowed. What's a tragedy is not coming at the end of the month. What's a tragedy is having an undesired motherhood. That's what a tragedy is. And about giving support to families, totally agree, but to all families. And two final commentaries. The origin of the problem of forced marriages is not the origin of culture, ethnicity or religion, the origin is the constant aggression suffered by many women. So, when we put the dot, the focus on the origin of the attacker and not on the origin of the violence, we're wrong. And it has a name that's very concrete, that's racism. And finally, about the workshops of masturbation of the children, spoilers: the children and the children are masturbated with and without workshops. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.79.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.80.0	Thank you, President. This motion of the commons requires a rational and unprejudiced approach in order to vote in conscience and in coherence. I have already told you that we are going to ask for a separate vote on each of the points, because the motion contains absolutely favourable, absolutely observable points, and others that reflect the ideological prejudices and the interventionist desire that characterizes them so much. We are a party committed to the elimination of gender-based violence and to the fight for the effective equality of women and men, and where we have ruled or where we have been able to be decisive, we have achieved results in this line. That is why we, as liberals and advocates of moderation and the just medium, are going to vote in favour of all the points of this motion aimed at protecting women victims of the scourge of macho violence, which unfortunately continues to hit the lives of many women, who often pay for it with their own lives. We will also vote in favour of all those points which lead to greater social equity and to the fight against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. We, as liberals, will always defend freedom and equality, because we will only be free if we are truly equal and we will only be equal if we are truly free. What we are not going to do is support those points in which the interventionist impulse of the commons is shown, points in which the proposing group intends to indiscriminately multiply public expenditure and the intervention of the State in matters which do not correspond. Pretending that five_per_cent of the Generalitat's budget is devoted to gender policies reflects a maximalism that makes the progress of our society extremely difficult. What these types of pretensions denote is little realism and an obvious lack of sense of proportion. And that, gentlemen of the commons, let me tell you that it favours practically nothing of the cause they claim to defend. On the other hand, some of the points of this motion could also be a source, if approved, of great legal uncertainty or greater capacity of the Administration to further increase the number of chiringuites and amiguetes placed in the Administration itself ; which may be precisely what they are looking for. Among the meeting points, we are glad to see, for example, that they add to the importance of mental health, no longer only in the sphere of women, but in young people and in society in general. Citizens have always been in favour of this, of the need to recognize the problem, to move it into the public sphere and to approve a genuine strategy and a mental security plan with sufficient budget, not as is being done here in the Government of the Generalitat or as the Government of Spain has done so far. So let us fight for equality and the elimination of gender-based violence, but without excluding anyone, without silenced voices, without seeking to confront each other in order to achieve political objectives. Only then can we build a better Catalonia and a better Spain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.81.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.82.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I think we have a new motion today, like the one we discussed yesterday with the CUP proposals, to mark the ideological agenda. It is true that there are some of the points on which we can agree, and, in fact, it will cost me to position myself on the seventeen points there are, because we are going to make a quite varied vote. But, for example, on the subject of equality plans, the publication of such plans, which has generated and raised some controversy, we therefore consider it reasonable that these equality plans should be published. With regard, for example, to the point that he is also talking about providing more resources for mental health disorders and especially disorders related to food conduct, we have, in fact, already defended it on other occasions and, therefore, we will also vote in favour of it at that point. We have many others who are also dedicated to the fight against macho violence and who are dedicated especially to the victims, including here also the children and children of these victims of macho violence. And, therefore, on those points we too will be voting in favour. But it is true that, after listening to the speeches and some of the considerations that have been made here, and taking the overall set of the motion, we do not even share the concept, the conception, nor do we share the terminology. We do not accept the deletion of women or constructs as pregnant persons, which we have heard here today. Nor are we going to whitewash that supposedly feminist policy of the left parties, in general, and of Minister Montero, in particular; a policy which is biased, which is hypocritical, which is exclusionary and which, moreover, has managed even to divide the feminist movement itself, precisely by the "removal of women". There is also another point that talks about trans people and the coverage that needs to be in social security. Nor do we share the postulates of the new trans-government law, and it seems to us that amputating healthy members must always be the last option. And therefore, in this sense, we all support those people who obviously do not feel or are suffering from the sex with which they were born, all the support, all the recognition of rights, all social and health insurance coverage when necessary, but not under the umbrella of the new trans law, because, I insist, we do not agree with them. At the point where abortion is being discussed, we have already discussed many proposals that come from the group of the commons in the Health Commission and we always say the same thing: we are comfortable with the abortion law that is in force, but always – always – guaranteeing conscientious objection. And you already know that at this point we always clash, because I don't know if you want everyone to have to commune with your ideas. I believe that the right to conscientious objection must also be guaranteed to doctors who do not agree in this case. And I've said it many times, I think a doctor's vocation is to save lives, which is quite the opposite of what an abortion means. Also with regard to the allocation of resources to various structures, which in the end we believe are therefore structures for the placement of parties; therefore, we will not agree on this either. But, as I say, there are many of the points that we will be voting for, because it seems to us that, despite not sharing the concept, despite not sharing the terminology, we do not believe that we should also violate people who could be left unprotected and who are suffering right now and who are also limiting their rights. And, therefore, in those specific points, we will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.83.0	So finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.84.0	Thank you, President. It's always hard, in these two minutes, to answer so many things. Yes, he wanted to start by pointing out that one of the points in the motion is just referring to one of the aspects of the assumption agreement that we made with the government, which is this study to move forward in systems that allow regularization and stable donation to the workers of the flat. And I want to take advantage of it, too, and celebrate it, that today, by the way, it's okay 189, that it's something that's been going on for a long and long time and that will allow us to put on the medal, that thanks to keeping Yolanda Díaz in the ministry..., and that we now expect the minister to write there to continue, because many of these 189 things affect social security. So we are sure that the Minister of Writing will be at the height of ratification of this agreement. [[Some applause.]] I could also say a lot to the deputy of VOX; among other things, tell them that lobbyists are Make You Hear and Citizen Go, that they are friends of VOX and Putin through the Kremlin. Telling her that abortion is not an obligation and that many women do so simply because they don't want to have children, beyond having or having money. I would also like to reply to the Socialist Party deputy, telling her that, although I disagree with many of the things she thinks and says about feminism, I respect her. And I will never compare it to the ultrathreat, no matter how different you think, as you did. [[Some applause.]] And that seems to me not to be a feminist sorority exercise. That we think differently doesn't mean that I don't erase or deny male violence. Let's say we deny male violence to the group that pushed the reform of the law of male violence – it should postpone its intervention – to the group that pushed it in the past legislature, is to deny an evidence. And I also want to see that perhaps who is in a position very close to the feminism of the People's Party is the feminism of the Socialist Party. [[Some applause.]] And maybe you should think about it here. For the rest of the points, thank the contributions of the CUP, which we believe improves the motion. To say that women are fifty per cent, but that we are also part of other collections and are something more than women. We're lesbian women, we're racial women, we're impobrid women. Therefore, incorporating intersectionality in no case is to erase women and, if not, they can count how many times the word "woman" appears in the motion and maybe they will come out a few. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.85.0	So let's start now voting on the motions that we discussed this morning and the late afternoon that we moved to this block. As you know, the texts of the motions that we are voting on incorporate the drafts and the compromises that have been accepted. There are six Members who have delegated their vote for this session today. Let's start by voting on the next motion... [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.86.0	I am sorry, Madam President, that I need to ask for a separate vote, which had passed me. Excuse me. From this last motion that we have modified, we should vote for separate point 3a, 4.b, and 10a, that these two could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.87.0	3a, 4.b, 10 and 10a, all right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 10 and 10 bis can go together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.88.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.89.0	Perfect. Okay. All right, thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the energy mix (cont'd)]] [[302-00154/13]] So let's start with this motion following the government's inquiry into the energy mix. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has obtained 40 votes in favour, 91 votes against. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has received 8 votes in favour and 123 votes against. We're voting 2.b and 2.d points now. The vote begins. This point received 19 votes in favour and 112 votes against. Finally, we vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point received 48 votes in favour and 83 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the resources planned for the summer season (continuation)]] [[302-00155/13]] Let us now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the resources planned for the summer season. We begin by voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points received 114 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting point number three... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I 17 abstentions – I'm sorry. The vote on Point 3 begins. This point received 67 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point received 56 votes in favour and 75 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point received 114 votes in favour, 7 against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point received 89 votes in favour, 31 votes against, and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point received 56 votes in favour, 64 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting 8 and 9 points now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point received 56 votes in favour and 74 votes against. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point received 89 votes in favour and 42 votes against. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point received 113 votes in favour, 12 against and 6 abstentions. [[Pause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of feminist policies of the Department of Equality and Feminism (continuation)]] [[302-00159/13]] We continue to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of feminist policies in the Department of Equality and Feminism. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point received 48 votes in favour, 50 against and 33 abstentions. We're voting points 2, 3 and 5a, letters to and b. The vote begins. These points received 80 votes in favour, 13 against and 38 abstentions. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. This point received 80 votes in favour, 11 against and 40 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. [[Feels like a background music.]] This point... – yesterday the entrances to Bruce Springsteen, and now..., all right. [[Rialles.]] This point received 114 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. This point received 50 votes in favour, 17 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting now for point 4.b.v. The vote begins. This point received 101 votes in favour and 27 votes against. And now we vote on the rest of point 4.b. The vote begins. This point received 112 votes in favour and 19 votes against. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point received 88 votes in favour, 11 against and 32 abstentions. We're voting points 10 and 10 a.m. now. The vote begins. These points received 86 votes in favour, 11 against and 34 abstentions. We're voting point 11.b. The vote begins. This point received 22 votes in favour, 107 against and 2 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of point 11. The vote begins. This point received 56 votes in favour, 11 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point received 24 votes in favour, 11 against and 96 abstentions. We're voting point number 14. The vote begins. This point received 50 votes in favour and 81 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. This point received 111 votes in favour, 13 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. This point received 50 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number 17. The vote begins. This point received 112 votes in favour and 19 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points received 120 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.90.0	Let's resume the session with the split of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the first year of government]] [[302-000156/13]] It is the motion following the question to the Government about the first year of government, which the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units presented to advance. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.91.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Well, we did 15 days ago... we asked the government this first year of the Aragonese government, and we asked them a question, we asked them a question to the air, which was if you believed that you had improved the lives of the citizens in these twelve months. We came to the conclusion that no, because we sorted out four themes, we put some facts that I want to remember very quickly, and with them, therefore, we saw that they were not better, but on the contrary, rather worse. In attendance in the field of salvation, for example; we have the primary attention col·lapsed. So much so that here, in this House, we voted that when you called the primary care center, your CAP, you would be served in forty-four hours, and today the list, say, we have, the hope we have because it's more than fifteen days, huh? Therefore, look how we are evolving: in denial. In education, not to say, we still do not know how the course will begin in September, we follow the region or one of the regions of Europe with more school drop-outs, with more segregation, and neither do we see any type of proposal to change this. In social services, we have already said: we are the autonomous community with the longest waiting lists in dependence, around the middle of the divide, when other communities are between the six and the seven. And in renewables, you don't have to say it, do you? , we are at the Cua d'Espanya : neither wind nor photovoltaic... And, therefore, many times when we look at the others to look guilty... so, look, in these areas, you have skills, you have assumptions, you have an administration in the service and, in change, you are unable to put solutions. What have we done with this young man? So try to donate answers, put answers to help them in this difficult task that is to govern and that seems to you to have been impossible many times. And, well, we've made some proposals. I must say to you that we accept two points: that of the field of salvation, that they change the plan of shoc – that they do not like to make plans of shoc – for measures already planned, they say, but the results are not yet, and then in renewables, that they change a verb to us and, obviously, if in the accounts of "investing in" we also seem to be looking at it. The case is that we actually have a lot more of net energy going to Catalonia when I finished this year 2022. Then, we wanted to see – which seems to me to be evidence, seen the data – that you have been a year of inaction, largely because you have been concerned and dedicated energies to your divisions, that every day you are bigger. But you're thanking me very much, because you've done a task... first, you've done a joint task – very well, well done, Junts and Esquerra Republicana – to say..., not to notice the inaction, but to find that the Government of Spain, how so, that the table of the dialog..., we sweep it all. But then Esquerra didn't make another one, separate, on this one, too, is to say, that, finally, you very close are not. That's to say, so much so that, just at the point we're talking about division, you're presenting two papers. The Republican Left will already explain it to me, Mrs. Serret, because, of course, you're making a statement and another kind of separate statement, right? Anyway, you already see that this government is very not going. Actually, today, to a young lady of my companion Marta Moreta, they voted differently, the government, different, to the moratorium on the rescuers, which, say, is no longer the airport, the dial table, important things. In fact, we talk about things, say, day by day, management. So you don't even agree with that. And we follow them: more self-requirement and less blaming others, more self-requirement with not being at the cove of renewables, at the cove of dependence, at the cove of how we attend primary care centres, at the cove of school segregation. More self-requirement and more solving the problems that are at their fingertips, because they have skills and resources. And, look, there's no government, but I'll tell them, and someone will get them to the councillors. This morning the councilman turned, who took advantage of himself here in the Faristol... Certainly, an inquiry that was made by the Canadell deputy to him, but that was not so; he followed an inquiry by Mr Canadell to the PSC. The PSC will be here for the government, but for now he should have made an inquiry to Councillor Giró, and he hasn't been there. That would also be to study it. But in any case, I wanted to say a few things to Counselor Giró, so I wouldn't lose sight of him. He said we had some implementation data from around eighty per cent. First, I have to tell you that you get the data, because the 2021 presupposition settlement data is not published on the web; that today is June 9th, it would be good if you were published. They're not there, they're only there until 2020. And then yesterday the president gave some other data; to see who the good ones are, to see if the public, to see if there is some transparency in this government. But, in addition, two facts I want to give, to the Counsellor Giró, that these are indeed on his website and that he has published his department to them. Accumulated execution of investments in infrastructure of the Generalitat in Catalonia from 2018 to 2021 – execution –: 50.3; 50.3 cumulative execution in four years of the Government of the Generalitat – 50.3 of its data. And, to give another data, because we all hope very much, that if Spain does not esteem us, Spain... Miri, from 2018 to 2022, in these four years, Spain has invested, executed, investments executed in Catalonia, 3,671, and in these four years Catalonia in Catalonia, Government of the Generality, 2,371: 1,300_millions of difference more from the Government of Spain to Catalonia than the own Government of the Generality. [[Greetings.]] Two figures I've given them – two. Now, I'll tell you one thing too: it's not a thirty-per-cent execution, it's a low cipher, but we, like at least, we're honest, we recognize it and we try to remake it, which you never come here to be self-demanding, honest and to recognize reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.92.0	In the defense round of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs. Glòria Freixa. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Well, I don't know what they're up to, ladies and gentlemen. [[relays]] But we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. If they don't mind... [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.93.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Of course, I had prepared an answer to his young lady, who had to go from waiting lists, social rights, education... but I see that Deputy Canadell has made a motion that should have been for Councilman Giró. And you say that this wasn't supposed to be so, because they actually did it to the PSC, and you take advantage of the motion to answer Deputy Canadell, that's to say, here I see that everyone takes advantage of their time for what they care about. You see, marriage..., or so on, marriage – I've already told you more than once – we don't talk about it, because yours hasn't just gone too well. So, we just landed at the Mirall. Because, you see, the star, which is home, the star of the commons, the fan, and you, the husband of the pair up to Madrid and brings it to the Constitutional Court and it is the law that the poor lords of the commons had made. So, you see, let's try a little more adventurous, too, this marriage from the Spanish. Let's see, the one he was giving us from the government plan, if anything we've been doing is transparent. The president and vice president made a appearance to explain that we already carried, in a year, executed more than thirty-five percent of the government plan. So, I think if we're still wearing... we haven't really spent a year, so, I think we're going well with everything that you were talking about government actions. I would not mention, however, how he left me for other topics, well, I will tell him about the national language pact, the seventy-per-cent more help in research, the national pact for industry, the gratuity to the P2 infantile, the drop in university fees, the more inversion, much more inversion, in mental health, of six-cent more places in the degree of Nursing, of the rural agenda of Catalonia – we do not forget the whole territory – or, in habitation, of the reserve of the twenty-i-five per-cent of the new habitats of logging for young people. I don't know why I have to say it again, because we've already made the year of government, the counselors have explained themselves, the president has explained himself, but... And, plus, it's published on the web, but as many times as you need it. For what he does to the waiting lists in dependence, we've explained a lot of measures, which we'll explain again. The councillor has come here and in committee many times and has explained it: digitization, a lot of digitization of all shippers because they wander faster, because they can examine these degrees more quickly. You also have access to the clinical history of salvation, because it was something that would also bear this value on the part of dependent workers. Also the impulse of teleassistance, and you said – that you didn't say so, and I'm going to stay out of time, because I thought we were coming to talk about it – making an appreciation of the degree of dependence and the individual care program in a single installment. But we'd like to say that they know that it requires a lot of regulatory change. And so, so, even though we don't see this as a good solution... And if we want to talk about it later, because I see he didn't tell me. So, I'm going with the rest of the stuff. For what he does to the waiting lists in salvation, which for you is one of his star themes and they ask once and another to Councilman Argimon. You see, it's worth more than 160 million euros to avoid these lists, and we've incorporated professional profiles into both primary care and hospital care to make it possible. Yes, a recovery program has been developed, which will also have to give more resources to primary care as well as to the hospital. And on the cues, the advisor Argimon said here and I want to repeat his words: 629,000 surgical interventions in Catalonia; with a population of only 1_million more people, 382,000 surgical interventions in Andalusia, and in Madrid, 386,000. So, we don't just hear how it turns out that we have the tallest list of waits. And since data isn't reliable, so we don't play this game. And now we're talking about you, we're talking about the alternate government, right? Because the first thing we could do is call Madrid, where they run and where they have the key to the box, and decide to return to the Catalans all that still goes on inversions, right? Or pay us back for everything that we should be and not be, because Councillor Giró said very well: "What can we do with all the money that you have stopped investing here? That it's not Catalonia, that it's you Catalans, too. And so, as long as they want to make alternate government, so, well, start running assumptions from there and make our lives easier, because we'd probably have a lot less waiting lists. And I'll give you an example, because the one thing I care about most about is that every time we give them from this bench, you laugh. And to me I know very hard, because today, as if talking about the fiscal deficit we wouldn't get out of it... imagine that you have three children. One has a very high ego, and the other two, lower. And the father said: "All I am going home, that I will already distribute it. But in time the other two kids end up having the same one as the other. And he said to her, "Look, listen, as if this is good for us, we will not give you what you pay and the others will live better than you because they will still have more money. Your son would leave home. So, I don't know, let's start hearing the situation, because I think every time we're out worse. All right, I'm running out of time, 'cause we had to talk about things that weren't happening. And, therefore, thanks for listening, but there is no more time – there is no more time. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.94.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mrs Meritxell Serret. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.95.0	See, quiet, and please. Mrs. Serret...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.96.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, this is quite a curious young man, because, from a gang, it's a free, empty, generic sentence to the government, and from here it comes to adopting measures that the government is already doing: more professional training, better schooling, energy transition and things that we've already seen these days precisely also in this House. That's why we vote that we either abstain from everything that we're already doing to the government, and we say that... that you talking about inaction and division is having a little – a little – to the eye. Especially because who accuses the PSC-PSOE, which forms part of the government supposedly more progressive of history, this yes, divided, which did not two days ago voted with the right to overthrow the proposal of Unitas Podemos, its governing partner, on the tax to the rics and that United Podemos led from the left the opposition to the proposal of the abolitionist law of the PSOE. This is political division. And it's not social either, because partitioning and inaction is incompeting with systemically inversions. Division is spying. Division is inaction and use hypocrisy and empty words not to face the political conflict with Catalonia. And obviating all this is, yes, division and inaction. With the rest of the motion that they present, with detailed measures, let us make it clear that today the PSC-PSOE has no alternative political agenda to Catalonia. We see this with the motions that are being tabled this week in this Parliament. Don't ask anything that the Generalitat isn't doing. And that is why we will abstain or vote in favour, because, obviously, we will vote in favour of making the changes that the Catalan education model needs. Yes, because we're already making them, and we're making them when they're advancing in gratuitousness from zero to three years, in universalization and presenting more public places than ever before, with an equitable distribution of students with special needs between publics and concerts, with a more rational school calendar and reducing first-time ratios in history. And yes, changes have a political cost, because they do for or because they involve taking people out of their comfort zone. And if the cost is to be used to make a country more just and free, we take it, and proudly, because today we can celebrate a year of republican and transformative government, which acts decisively, and we can also see that you carry an alternate year of government empty of content and with an absolute balance of weaknesses. Do you want to talk about inaction? I'll give you another example that you've missed on your list. We can't count on the PSC to get the resources that the country deserves or to end the recurring state failures. Even when the Republican Left we have put pressure and managed to maximize the PSC ministerial parties in Madrid, it turns out that at the end of the day, alien disgrace, and that, for a lot we guarantee that there is a decent premise for the runaways, the ministry, with Gavà's ex-mayor in the lead, is unable to execute beyond a supposed twenty-seven per cent. This perfectly illustrates the problem of belonging to the Spanish State, with some centralist and centralist institutions, and that no matter what the law says, they always end up benefiting Madrid and the same, more and less the conjunction of Catalan citizenship. And that's against what the most vulnerable people in our country need, and it's in favor of inequalities. And, I mean, it's this, inaction and division, its. And we will not fail to denounce it nor to give up any recourses compromised by the State with Catalonia, because the debt is historical and continues to grow, as we have recalled during this plenary, with railway access to Prat, the B-40, the variant of Vallirana, the Mediterranean Corridor, resources to the joints to make their works or to respond to the humane crisis for the war of Ukraine. And not just. You are the view in Catalonia of an incompetent government, unable to repeal the law, unable to make a decent labor reform, when we already have the employer who urges companies to get rid of the agreed collections, unable to tax the fallen benefits of the big electric ones, unable to push a fiscal reform of progress. And they say that the Government of the Government of Catalonia does not solve problems for the people, but the fact is that they are unable to put an alternative solution on the table, because they are always either escorted to the right or, on the contrary, they are already pushing this transformative Government. And if they want to talk about the table, if they want a dialogue between Catalans, we have a proper institution, which is this Parliament, because what is needed to resolve the political conflict is to negotiate, with a dialogue that is sincere and transparent. And we have told them very clearly: negotiation cannot be a theatre that goes on forever and will not be honest with the strategy of criminalization, espionage and repression acting with impunity. I make proposals about the table, because that's what we don't have. What we do have: a Catalan government and a majority of Catalan society compromised with the negotiated and democratic way, because for their band we only have excuses, espionage and incompliments. Republican Left we want to resolve the democratic democratic conflict, and there is only one way: amnesty and referendum. And don't give up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.97.0	After the defense of the papers presented, to fix his position, has, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.98.0	Well, after the weddings now come the golden bachelors, because from here everyone will want to make a deal with us. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, thank you, President. At the first point..., they see the division and inaction of the government in its first year of legislature and its inability to solve the concrete problems of Catalonia's citizenship. Totally agree. The only thing, Socialists, that you are part of this government, is the opposition councillor. They have jointly approved, these marriages so badly avenued, twenty-seven of the thirty-and-one laws that have been processed in this chamber. Moreover, you also govern together in Madrid, by invisoring, the separatists, President Sánchez, and ruining the nation with its policies. Illa – we say it a lot and it's true – is the crutton of Aragonès in Barcelona, as Rufián is the crutton of Sánchez in Madrid. Each Sánchez scandal has a counterpart in the form of an assignment to the separatists. It was previously the pardons to the coup; yesterday, the agreement that violates the legality and discriminates the Spanish to silence the criticisms for the Pegasus affair. The PSC – and I know it wrong to say it – has openly betrayed the values of all its voters and has already given itself to separatism, which remains in the coup d'état systematically breaching the law. And both parties work together to betray the most popular and humbled classes they claimed to represent. They have approved most of the anti-prosperity measures proposed by the Department of Climate Religion of Catalonia. They also join separatism in demonizing those who suffer from the insecurity of Islam, calling them "racist and xenophobic" simply because they want security in their neighbourhoods. And, following the points of the motion, on vocational training and the labour market, for VOX, of course, vocational training and the culture of the profession are fundamental pillars in order to achieve an efficient and productive good labour market. And, indeed, there is a mismatch between the supply and demand of our labour market. You see this these days, talking with several sectors, especially in the restoration, hospitality and construction, which denounces a low quality labour force. We are faced with a high unemployment rate and in turn with very low wages in these sectors of our economy. That is why we are betting on the dual vocational training model, the collaboration of companies, which are the ones who really know what is going to be needed in the labour market and can help to make the academic curricula necessary for vocational training to adapt to this demand. On waiting lists, we are presented with a series of measures on waiting lists which seem to us to be positive, frankly. However, the objective seems to us to be a little poor and insufficient. Why do they aim to reduce the list by 40 percent in just two years? Without waste, without ideological spending on feminism and its shared climate religion, one could go to more and better. According to the Dincat, in its budget preparation report approved for this political course, ending the waiting lists would mean devoting 113_million_of_euro to the budget. For since VOX we have expressed it and we repeat it, we have made it very clear: by eliminating the councils of Feminism and External Action we would save approximately 200_million_of_euros and we could allocate the, for example, 4_million visits of primary care. With regard to energy, your 2030 target proposal, as you know, we are for energy sovereignty, which will gradually buy each of the groups present here, to defend that we do not have to rely on external energy, to seek the well-being of the Spaniards with a cheap, accessible and sufficient energy. Finally, they ask to "convoke the table of Catalan parties to open a sincere dialogue and to address those issues that are of relevance to Catalonia". Look, don't talk about a sincere pact or party table when they systematically discriminate against our political formation. We see it in the committees, we see it in plenary and they continue with their anti-democratic cordon to VOX, which we thank them for, because more and more socialist voters are going to vote for us. In relation to the issues of relevance to you, the issues of relevance are already known, is to agree the « body, Board of Guarantees Statutàries, Union of Accounts. Those are their issues of relevance. And since VOX we will continue to denounce these pacts that go against our coexistence, because they deal with thugs who want to end this coexistence and this unity. And we will continue to focus on post-separatist Catalonia to solve the problems that you have jointly generated from social economy and insecurity. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.99.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.100.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, we have to admit that they have presented us with a very strange motion, totally lacking in textual coherence and that, under cryptic... under what I really want to look for who the intentions are. You begin a text that opens up a huge umbrella, noting the division and inaction of the government in its first year of legislature, its inability to solve the concrete problems of Catalonia. And that's what they say, in fertilizer, in general. And then they go on to make a list of proposals that focus on salient aspects, necessary aspects, obviously, but that are very concrete, that they surprise that, after opening this brand so wide at the political level, they move to this very prosaic and narrow area and, let me say them, also little ambition. We already agree, that there is inaction respecting the real needs of most people. Inaction of all of you in Madrid and here. And the truth, too, we see them folded, to the government and to you. We see that they agree very quickly to continue pushing the ancient formulas of neoliberalism and of the strongest autonomy, that the only one they do is to serve to perpetuate inequalities and oppression – Olympic Games, to convey the castle to the school... In fact, we call all of you "the republican socio-vergency," and we think that this game that you do to name "the alternating government, more than not to bring people, when it is joked about this – today we see it, that if the alternating government, that if the governing in the shadow – sincerely, if we pose ourselves to the skin of the majority of the people, of the game that is left behind and that is left behind, then there is no power. We think that these problems..., we agree that they are not solved... But the problems that are not solved are not precisely solved with your model, with your model, because the model that you defend is more of the same: more neoliberalism and more autonomy. But, well, I'm in the middle of the show. Under this so generic and so open title, there are no concrete proposals at the political level; we only find one at the end, which we have already voted against in the previous legislature. This mania that you have to want to create fictitious dialog tables. No, no, And the precise and unambitious proposals that you make, that many of us will vote for, because some of us have also defended them in previous motions. On the waiting lists for dependency: what's important is that it's over, not just that it's over. Formative cycles: we understand that they are the brand of demand of the educational community, which you propose. The toilets are on the same line as we've already proposed to the genera. Renewables already know they can't approve without this planning. We want to stop at the d point, where you say ‘take the changes and take the decisions necessary to ensure the proper functioning of your course 22-23. I'd like to say that it's a matter of a few changes and decisions that are talking, because we can obviously say that they're the ones on the wave march, but we'd like to be clear. Because a few weeks ago you withdrew from the consensus that we had worked to reprimand Councilman Cambray and request his resignation. Two times in this House in a short time they have had the opportunity in this chamber to speak in favour of this change, and two times, later, they have made themselves back. And on Tuesdays, this very Tuesdays, you left families to plant without a place in public school, which is one of the hard problems faced by the 2022-2023 course. And you and the government parties unanimously did not attend the meeting convened to listen to these families who have been left without space for this detail of public places covered behind the curtain of the fallout made for Councilman Cambray. Do you see that? Another time, all three, well united, giving the skeleton to the strewn rights of most people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause and remorse of voices.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.101.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.102.0	Thank you, President. Well, when the investiture debate is done, we already said that this was the government of resignation and that it was not a government of transformation. I think the one who spent this year giving us enough reason. Basically, it's a government that lives between paralysis and resignation. The paralysis because I think they devote all their energies to managing a relationship that I've already told you several times that you don't rehearse. The proof is yesterday. That is to say, yesterday was to be the great day of the consent of the català and it was a new baptism that continues to be a symptom from some statements that, obviously, I think we share that they were out of place, that they are from Mr. Rufián. But it's that, besides, we live in the first person, because, in the end, when we negotiated the assumptions, we approved some assumptions in which the secretary general of one of the parties that gave support to the government said he preferred not to have assumptions in Catalonia before they could agree with us. Up to that level up his level of confrontation and also paralysis. Clearly, you play the comparison. And that's true, isn't it? I can always compare everything. I would like to make the list, and I will do it: the labor reform that you voted against, which was the highest level of indefinite contract we have in Spain; we could talk about the reduction of the act; we could talk about the plan of response to Ukraine of €16,000_million; we could talk about the covid fund. But we also talk about laws: we can talk about the law "it is only yes; we can talk, for example, about the trans law; we can talk about the law of euthanasia; we can talk about the law of climate change. Do you know how many laws your government has made? How many Bills? One. [[Greetings.]] Do you know why there's this bill of law? Because we prefaced the interests of the country to the interests of the party, and that's why he assumed it to Catalonia. And, of course, you compare it to me – and you know Mrs. Romero that we have differences, but I also think that everyone knows that we have a very good relationship – with the situation in the state government. But I'll put three differences in it. Miri, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz is not the head of the opposition, like Mrs. Borràs, who is looking all day for the saying to the ull, Mr. Aragonès. Among other things, Mr. Jaume Asens has never insulted the president of his own government; he would never be called upon, Mr. Jaume Asens, to insult the president or an expression of the Generality. So, the differences I think are abysmal. But it's that, to say the least, if we're in a government like the government of the state, we'd never consult to say if we broke the government, like you're planting. [[Greetings.]] That's what I'm saying, the mass's repicant. So they can compare what they want, but I'm already telling them, and, uh... home, right? I'm heading to the Republican Left: we didn't start the legislature well anymore; don't look for solutions that you no longer have, so... It's not the government we wanted, and I think it's not the government you wanted, and you know it's not the government that needs Catalonia. And I think his relationship is more than exhausted. And then they were talking about resignation. And, look, I'll give you three examples that respect... you speak... the President of Aragones speaks many times of green transformation. I think he's a government of resignation in environmental policies. I'll give you three examples. We... that is, the expansion of the airport – the expansion of the airport. And yes, look, we worked with the state government to expand the expansion. But you were in favour of expanding the airport. The Olympic Games, which I also want to say here: it's a healthy one, the one they have with the Olympic Games. I mean, there are Members and Members of your parliamentary group who are against the Olympic Games. We were sharing a demonstration, which we also celebrate. But it's that, besides, they also have, and in this case Together for Catalonia, you also have, I don't know, one, say... Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, because... I feel it. That's to say, if you break ties with the Government of the State... Miri, there's nothing more Spanish than the EOC; or so – I've told you more than once – there's nothing more Spanish than the Spanish flag passing through the middle of Puigcerdà inaugurating the Olympic Games with the King of Spain. So... I mean, I mean, in the end the contradictions hold them with a project that didn't go away. And, besides, after Hard Rock too – which I'm also pleased that there are Republican Left MPs with whom we also work very well –, that they already say it's a project that isn't going to be done, and I hope it's not done. I believe that this government suspects – I said it the other day – suspect in three camps: suspect in salvation – we have primary attention as we have it –; suspect in education – I believe that what is obvious..., no? Mr. Cambray's management no longer gives for more – and they suspect in environmental leadership and they suspect in economic transition. And, if they leave me – because in the end it's a PSC movement – I'm also giving them a prec. It's all right, this alternate government – I think they can go through imaginary decrees – but I think we can't have a resigned government and a resigned opposition head. And, look, it doesn't matter if they ever ask for Mr Cambray's resignation, that I think he won it and I think it's about time this Parliament asked her to. And maybe it would be good if, once and for all, we failed Mr. Cambray, who won it and I think it's his turn. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.103.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.104.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, today we have a motion from the PSC, which, certainly today, the PSC, unfortunately, is neither opposition nor alternative. As much as they present themselves as an alternative government, the PSC is certainly pursuing a policy of nationalism, as, unfortunately – we regret many – it has done in the past forty years. Indeed, one of the great problems facing Catalonia has been the attitude of the PSC towards nationalism. The PSC has done good things for Catalonia, of course, and I will not deny them; the problem has been that its attitude towards nationalism has always been complacent, has always been condescending and has always been deeply shameful. And, in this respect, I believe that the fundamental thing is that the PSC has assumed the premises of nationalism, it has assumed them in aspects such as speaking its own language, to refer only and exclusively to Catalan, excluding Spanish as its own language. No, there is not a language proper to Catalans and another that is improper, but that both languages are not only official, but are proper to the citizens of Catalonia. Languages are not native to the territories, they are native to the citizens. And, in this respect, I think that, by extension, pretending to say that the Spanish is not the same as Catalonia is a real contradiction. And that's what favored the PSC along with the nationalists. He has favored it speaking of Catalonia as a nation; speaking of a single people to refer to the citizenship of Catalonia; speaking in its own terms, I insist, of nationalist parties. That is why I have sometimes commented that the problem, or the main problem that Catalan politics has had these years, has been the deep Stockholm syndrome that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia has had with the nationalists. Until there is a really strong opposition, really hard against nationalism, Catalonia will hardly pass the page of this time of obscurantism, of this time of politics of confrontation, of politics based on openly nineteenth-century terms and parameters. In this sense, a separate mention also deserves the common ones, of course. Now, the spokesman for the commons, Mr Cid, was affronting the members of the Government of the Generalitat who are no more belligerent against the idea of the Olympic Games, because there is nothing more Spanish than the Spanish Olympic Committee, and he was joking, he was joking, he was joking, to walk with the flag of Spain through the Pyrenees. A representative of a party currently ruling Spain is speaking. It is a real drama for Spain to have a party in the government with representatives who mock, mock, of their own national badge; it is an unprecedented, unmatched thing in Europe. I certainly believe that the citizens of the rest of Spain should know what they make common and socialist in this Parliament. What they do, for example, by validating, giving a letter of nature to the law that they agreed yesterday with the nationalists, which in practice is true that it is abstruse, that it is difficult to understand, but that the Council of State Guarantees itself gave us a clear clue, that is that this law, that legal dungeon with which they have given us nationalists and socialists, does not consider the Spanish language to be used in the classrooms – it is clearly stated by the Council of State Guarantees. Indeed, he only preaches the condition of the Catalan language. Yesterday, the nationalist politicians themselves told them, lords of the Socialist Party, that the law you passed was precisely to prevent the execution of the sentence of twenty-five percent Spanish in the classrooms. As much as you strive to say otherwise, all you can aspire to with this bill is to create greater legal insecurity and to create greater defencelessness in the individual rights of the citizens of Catalonia, Spanish-speaking or Catalan-speaking, who have the right to learn an academically worthy Spanishman, an intellectually and culturally valid Spanishman to go around the world. Unfortunately, with the current educational system, with the current composition of the languages we have in our educational system, that is not possible. And you, with your vote yesterday, with your photo on the stairs of this Parliament, what you do is perpetuate that discrimination of the Spanish language in our educational system. In the PSC, or socialists, they fill their mouths with supposedly nefarious photos that others should be ashamed of. To be honest, seeing them yesterday in a photo with Vice President Puigneró, who once again coined, once again awoke the nauseous« Spain robs us, it would give me real shame. I can honestly tell you, gentlemen of the PSC: I would be really ashamed to take pictures of those who once again hold a slogan as deeply xenophobic and Hispanic as that of 'Spain steals from us. And, in this respect, I insist again on what I was saying: if the PSC made real opposition, another cock would sing to us – unfortunately, they don't. Beyond that, your motion seems to us that in many places it is acceptable. And I wish they would really do what they say in these texts. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.105.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.106.0	Thank you very much, President. This is a motion that begins correctly – and that we are going to support the initial points – and that breaks abruptly at its last point. And already in the penultimate there is also some question that we will not be able to give you support, right? That is to say, putting figures on energy issues as you do is one thing that does not need to be an expert in this matter to know that it is Martian and that it makes no sense, and therefore we will not be able to support it. But, well, the key question is the last point, isn't it? : "Convoke the table of Catalan matches to open a sincere dialog. Good. It's a well-intentioned proposal, isn't it? Who in this life, what charitable soul does not want a sincere dialogue? Right? It is especially appreciated that they say, from the Socialist Party, that dialogue is sincere. I do not contemplate any other form of dialogue that is not sincere, and it is appreciated that you recognize that you have various categories of dialogue: the sincere and the other, it is understood, that it must be the one that applies normally and with which you usually gift us in each of the things that systematically fail, and betray the other talking party. Sincere dialogue, in democracy, is exercised in parliaments. There are more than enough mechanisms for this; in fact, we should now be engaged in a sincere dialogue – at least that is what I put it. As I said a moment ago, unless you are in Parliament unable to be honest and need a table outside Parliament to say what you really think. Anyway, it's a thing that's got me pretty perplexed. But here the fundamental question of your proposal is that what you are trying to do is to whiten a table that is neither inclusive, as you ask, because it excludes a substantial part of it – I will not go into if the fifty_and_five, if the sixty_per_cent– of Catalan society –..., and I am talking about the table that you have opened between the Spanish government with government parties – not with the whole government, with a party – of Catalonia, and that, as I said, is neither inclusive nor sincere, because, in fact, every time you leave the meetings you are betting, precisely highlighting that you are not sincere and that you do nothing but lie yourself. So, why are we going to import here a system that you are using in the Government of Spain which, in addition to being a stark failure, is characterized by a lack of sincerity and a lie sustained in time? I don't think that suits Catalonia, frankly. I think it is much better for you to regain an active, contentious parliament and not continue to extract the substantial dialogue with instruments: some take it to Waterloo; you want to take it to a table, all outside Parliament, when sovereignty resides in Parliament. Here I see that some elementary issues of democracy..., you can see that that day did not go to class. And it would be advisable for them to learn these lessons again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.107.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, once again hold the word the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.108.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly. Miri, Mrs Serret, I don't know if the twenty-three_per_cent of the citizens of Catalonia who are at risk of poverty; or all these municipalities in rural areas that do not have optical fiber; or those citizens who take the Equal Railways to Barcelona and delay the ninety-four minutes, twice as much as the bus; or the assemblies, who give 14_million euros for the Bressol schools; or the universities, who follow as they do not get to the assumption that they have the year 2010; or the families, who still don't know if we will start the course on day 5, if it will be again one, whether late or early in the morning, whether they have monitors or not. I don't know, honestly, if all these people are very happy; nor if the women, unfortunately, who have had a breast cancer have to wait five years or more for a pit surgery. All these people are very happy, Mrs. Serret, it seems to be, of their government, which is what you said here. No, look, listen, I wouldn't be ill, talking about honesty and honesty, that as much as I accept that they don't do all things well, though they wear many years of rule. The figures, some figures... that we've tried to touch some themes, not all of them, because then it would already be a plan of government, and we'll do it in a few minutes. Listen to me, these things need quick solutions, and what we've done is make proposals that you don't have in the plan of government. He said: "They are the ones we already do. Oh, yeah? Where are they? Because in the government plan they're not there. And, look, Mr Cid said the proposals they have put forward in Madrid in relation to Catalonia. Miri, it's that here you haven't presented eight, you've presented eight. Do you know how many the alternate government of Catalonia has presented, what you've done so much? Yes! - I said! [[Greetings.]] He said against eight, the real government, that it has an administration behind it and 34,000_million euros of unfunded expenditure. So, look, yes, you know how many documents we've approved with concrete proposals and economic studies? Forty-nine! - Forty-nine! That's it! They're doing the job! They voted for you. Listen, the CUP gave them the support for the investiture so they could rule. So they rule, work, and stop complaining. [[remorse of the voice]] And to look at the others, that all day is the fault of the others! No, I'll scream and say what I want. [[Greetings.]] Because I'd just need you to shut me up. That's it! Home! [[Perlonged applause and voice remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.109.0	When the debate is over with this level of agitation, I'm guessing that this vote is going to... it's going to be somewhere when we're done with the last point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of the university system]] [[302-00157/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the Movement following the question to the Government on the situation of the university system, which has presented the Parliamentary Group of VOX to Catalonia and which will present Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.110.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the past plenary session, in the debate raised by the Parliamentary Group of VOX on universities, Conseller Geis spoke describing the Catalan university community as if it were a literary topic, the literary topic of the locus amoenus, that is, that common, idyllic, natural place, whose land emanates milk and honey, quiet, safe, inviting to calm and constructive conversation. But, yes, only in Catalan, there would be more missing. As I've already told the councilwoman, nothing further from reality. Through this motion we have pointed out a number of worrying anomalies – we see the most important ones – that are tearing down the university, proposing a series of measures – eighteen specifically – based on the common sense and real needs of the Catalan university community, that only the autocratic closure, the anti-democratic spirit and the interests of parties of some people or parliamentary groups will prevent their approval. Well, the eighteen measures focus on five key lines of work: three on combating job insecurity among teachers, researchers, university administration and service staff; five on improving the funding of the university system; five on reducing university fees and prices; two on ending language indoctrination, language discrimination and ideological totalitarianism imposed by the Generalitat in the university system; and three on rationalizing bureaucracy in the university. I will, of course, only comment on some of these measures for the time we have. I will start with the following: we bet to immediately reduce and equalize the price of first degree tuition and master's credit; reduce it to 16.06_euros. It is possible to do so; only political will is needed. In addition, we believe it is fair and necessary to eliminate the increase in the price of credit of degree and master's degree in second enrollment, as well as to eliminate the surcharge, the increase by credit in second degrees of the same academic level. Because we from VOX think, and so we are convinced, that training has to be fostered constantly and continuously. In the field of research, we propose to expand and strengthen the industrial doctoral programme, to reduce the rates for doctoral programmes and to expand the number of scholarships available for all university studies. We also want to eliminate territorial discrimination and enhance the comparative, competitive advantages of universities that are currently undervalued, abandoned by the autonomy of the Generalitat, as can be the Universitat de Lleida. Mrs Geis has to stop her linguistic imposition, devoting resources to productive spending, which promotes the excellence and freedom of the university. Simply, the university is missing a lot of opportunities because the Generalitat prioritizes indoctrination and the linguistic and ideological imposition on the excellence and well-being of all the professionals of the Catalan university system. Next week – another point that interests us very much – will be the tests of selectivity, the tests of selectivity, crucial tests for the academic and professional future of thousands of Catalan students, which must therefore be carried out scrupulously on equal terms and without any discrimination that can negatively influence the outcome in the final note. The student who chooses a model of examination in Spanish cannot be allowed to be publicly mentioned, as civil society and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia recalled last year. And if anyone argues that the majority of students answer the exams in Catalan, they are giving us reason and they are acknowledging that we live in an educational system of imposing monolingualism in Catalan in the classroom, despite the fact that society is bilingual. Finally – with this I conclude – the right to university autonomy cannot contravene the right to freedom of chair, expression and investigation of the persons who make up the entity. Thus, the consolidated doctrine of the Constitutional Court maintains that public institutions, such as the university, unlike citizens, do not enjoy the fundamental right to freedom of expression and must adhere to the principle of political and ideological neutrality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.111.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.112.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... thank you, Mr Acosta, for your always thoughtful and kind intervention. I want to start, in fact, by highlighting precisely his moderate style, because just this morning I heard an intervention by a colleague of his party, Mr Acosta, Mr Antonio Ramón López, where he ridiculed moderation, where he put the idea of moderation, of sensibility, of tranquillity. And it is precisely from this atrium that I want to make a praise of moderation, a praise of respect for each and every member of this House, a praise of conviction and firmness in defending our positions, all of which, in my opinion, are legitimate, provided that they are, logically, within the framework of law, respect and reasonableness. And, in this respect, I sincerely believe that criticizing moderation is gross error, because a policy without moderation, a society without moderation is a society condemned to confrontation, it is a society condemned to confrontation. And I sincerely believe that what is most needed by Catalan society, and by Spanish society as a whole, is precisely that moderation, that policy of conviction in the important thing that is to know that reality is complex, that reality is plural and that we cannot fall into dogmatic, Cainite, civilistic attitudes, which I denounce in any case. That is precisely why I was surprised this morning by that statement and I want to rebut it from here. Moreover, I believe that the motion tabled by VOX can be dealt with in most of its points. There is something that seems to us to be somewhat contradictory, but in general it is a motion that addresses some of the fundamental issues that affect the university system of our community. And, in this regard, I would like to draw attention to an issue that has recently taken place in one of the Catalan universities, specifically in Pompeu Fabra, when the cloister of university professors has called for a motion before the Rectorate to demand that both internal and external communications – on social networks, for example – of the university be unique and exclusively in Catalan, excluding, of course, the Spanish language status of usual use of the university. It seems to me to be an exercise or a further demonstration of sectarianism, manicism and deep fundamentalism, which unfortunately presides over the attitude of Catalan universities, often of Catalan public universities, and very specifically of Pompeu Fabra University. I am extremely concerned that such attitudes are normalized; that university professors think it reasonable to ask the rector to exclude the Spanish language from university communications seems absolutely unacceptable, absolutely entrepreneurship. That is why we agree with the point where it is precisely bilingualism in university. A very curious aspect of the nationalist discourse is when they say that education does not go by percentages. They say that the fact that twenty-five percent of the subjects in schools are in Spanish is little less than an attack on the freedom of the chair and also on the children's own freedom. And it turns out that the fact that eighty_per_cent of the subjects or teaching hours in the university should be by law in Catalan, that does not seem worrying to them nor with that percentage they have the least problem, quite the opposite. That is why I believe that, in Catalonia, unfortunately, in the world of education, which should be the world of intelligence, in the best sense of the word, what called Unamuno "the temple of intelligence..., I regret that Catalan universities are being carried away by a drift tending to impose spirals of silence that damage, greatly harm coexistence and, of course, greatly harm knowledge as well. From this point of view, I believe that VOX's motion points to some of the important aspects of university education. I sincerely believe that in Catalonia in recent times we have seen very worrying episodes of attacks on freedom. We have seen it, for example, with certain attacks on members of Universitaris per la Convivencia, an entity of teachers who defend precisely coexistence and freedom in the university. We have seen it with successive attacks on the young people of S'Ha Afinat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And from this attrition I want to reclaim precisely the role that these young people do, as well as the association of Universitaris per la Convivencia; the role they play for freedom, the role they play for equality and, ultimately, the role they play for the quality of our democracy and our university institutions and of the entire institutions of our community. That's all. And in any case, we will vote in favour of the whole motion. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.113.0	Then, to fix his position, has the first word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.114.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies and deputies. We will vote against today's VOX motion. And we would like to explain in detail why we are going to issue this vote. Fortunately, in politics there are always some issues that often generate broad consensus among different parliamentary groups. They are often those related issues, where there are rights and where there are images, where it is very difficult to show against the beneficial opportunities that contribute to our society. Improving the university system can be one of these issues. And, precisely, if it wasn't because in front of us there are some parliamentary groups that want to place this debate on how we can improve the university system and not so much on what... that would surely happen. Listening, a couple of weeks ago, to the VOX group deputy on the question that he made to the councilwoman about how to improve the university system, we thought we would have before us today a motion with very sensible proposals, which we could see if we really worked on that how to improve it and not so much other variables. But unfortunately – one more disappointment, rather than a surprise – we see that the VOX Parliamentary Group does not work that way. Of the eighteen proposals presented by VOX, we can make a small schematic summary, with five blocks, in the same way as has been defined by the deputy Manuel Acosta. The first three proposals they put forward refer to the reduction of university prices; a reduction in university prices which, while we share from the Socialist Group, we think is late and bad on the part of your parliamentary group. Precisely a month and a half ago we had in this Parliament a debate of the ILP of universities, where many student organizations came to demand the reduction of university prices of degrees, masters and second degrees. At the time, the VOX Parliamentary Group did not put forward any proposals, did not put forward any amendments, and to the agreement brought to us by Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and the CUP of a very concrete reduction to a price voted in favour. It was the Socialist Group that did not support the reduction in the university price which was set and tabled an amendment, precisely to go a little further. In the second block of the proposals that are before us, they speak of reducing procedures, of reducing administrative processes, of eliminating bureaucracy in the university, because everything is becoming especially slow, as in any other public administration. And it's true. This is the best example of what they talk about, of the goal, but they are unable to fix how; there is neither one – nor one – action to show how we can speed up administrative processes in the university. Regarding the third block, they ask for many things from the Department of Research i Universitats – they don't seem to want to close it – but there is something very concrete, and what they ask is that they reach an agreement with a relevant entity – we don't know which one, because they don't say it – so that the transport cards for college students have three hundred_sixty trips. In other words, what they want is for college students to have one hundred and eighty days to get back and forth from college. And, in other words, what they want is for the people who are in universities one hundred_eighty days to be in college and the other hundred_eighty days I guess they'll want them to be in their homes. There is a fourth block in which they talk about working conditions, it's true, and they name temporality. We do not know very well what they mean, whether they intend to maintain the same staff by reducing temporary contracts or whether they want to reduce temporary contracts by already taking advantage of it to reduce the number of university teachers. If your proposal is the first, do not worry, because it is the same will that pursues labor reform, and it is noted that it is already bearing fruit. If your proposal is the second, you cannot count on the Socialist Party. And a fifth block in which they take advantage to put all their ideological star proposals, which come to be those of suppressing strategic plans, university legislation with measures related to linguistic immersion, gender perspective, climate change and references to multiculturalism and immigration. That means something that unfortunately we already know, and that is that VOX wants a closed, intolerant, homogeneous society that is subject to climate emergency and structural machismo. The Socialist Party is radically opposed to what you always propose: we are the ones who advocate that universities have to serve as public entities to generate talent and knowledge, precisely to achieve effective equality between men and women and to achieve compatibility between economic growth by eliminating the ecological footprint, in a world and in a country like ours, in which what we want is precisely to have everything, that has all cultures, all languages and all people. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, with you we share practically nothing, not even in those things where it seems relatively easy that we can share something. The Socialist Party's proposals are different. First, increase funding for public universities, because they all ask for it, and you here don't talk about it. What we want is to work the scholarships, increase the scholarships, because we are concerned about social cohesion concerns universal access to the university, and these concepts do not speak here. We want to solve a generational problem that exists in university, because people come to have a fixed position as a university teacher when they are forty or forty or five years old, and you don't talk about this here. We want to comply with the national pact of knowledge, and of course you do not even name it. I'm done, President. For all this, for the reasons explained, not by dogmas or sectarianisms, but because we look at the motion and the content, the tone, the forms, the opportunities that explain that we have lost in the past, precisely because of all this, our vote will be against. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.115.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.116.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Today I find myself here to defend a young man for a democratic anomaly with which we do not agree, right? Thanks to this democratic anomaly, the extreme right has entered the institutions, and this means that we lose time that we can invest in the best of other aspects and make proposals for our society to read, analyze and devote time to the Faristol to make positions on aspects that we do not share. That said, as this democratic anomaly has allowed and, unfortunately, we must live with this extreme right in this chamber, listening to racist demonstrations, xenophobics, tranphobes and a long time, which are not interrupted and which are allowed to be pronounced in their totality, I will use this time to position myself on this young man, who, as I have said, is a waste of time, I will go in and analyze his incongruities. And there are incongruities because most of the proposals are totally inconsistent with your political agenda and your world view. In the first..., in one of the points, in point 8, he says: "Require the Research and University Department to arrive at an agreement with the relevant entity– we don't know which –" so that the transport tickets for the university have a duration of 360 trips, regardless of the time of its activation. This means that they are recognizing travel throughout the year in public transport. But this was not a mission of the green religion of the "greenhouses and of these people who want to carry the private transport media and the private vehicle? They're asking for public transportation for all the students throughout the year. First incongruity. Point 9 says that "in less than six months there will be a strategy of attracting young talent, with the aim of promoting and encouraging the academic, academic and research university career. Young talent attraction. Young talent, of course? Because young talent's got it all figured out. And this isn't his racist bias and against all the other nationalities. Talent young there is in Cuba, there is not all the Latin American countries, the African countries and much more beyond the European Union. But here it does not specify; therefore, we understand that you agree that there is this attraction of young talent. So we open the doors to all that talent out there, don't we? , of which they are against. Another incongruent point, isn't it? Or maybe not, on the contrary; now I'm going to go to a point that's the only one who's going in line with his ideology: point number 13. Point 13 says: "Delete from the strategic plans and university legislation in force in Catalonia all measures relating to linguistic immersion in Catalan or ideologically related to the gender perspective, climate change and references to multiculturalism and immigration. The only point of the motion that clearly reflects its ideology; all the rest, incongruences. Then, the point number 17 diu – I will read it in castle –: "Strengthening the collaboration of Catalan universities with the rest of university centers in Spain. Because I am a daughter of immersion and I demonstrate that I have acquired Spanish competence. [[Greetings.]] "In less than six months, a report on good practice at national level and a strategy for attracting Spanish talent to universities in our region and for strengthening academic relations with other educational institutions in Spain will be prepared. And here's where this idea of a Spanish Iberian male comes in, that we in our territory only defend that of linx, that we would very well have the Iberian linx masculin, that eats rabbits and that ends with the plagues that our page has. This is the Iberian male we're defending. And, besides, there are many other incongruities that I can relate to this young man and his party in general. Why do they want to end the bars and not hesitate to address themselves when they have any interest? They want to pass the scissors to the political class and they're against the submersible. And the government of Castella and Lleó have increased the expenditure on assessors by thirty-three_per_cent. This is the treasure to the political class that passes this game and that has increased spending in advisors said, Germans of some people. I'm done, President. I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in the same way that we do not agree with your presence in the institutions, I would appreciate it if your presence would not bother me between the past and the rest of the world. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.117.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, Mr Lucas Ferro has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.118.0	My big one. It's just that I think there's an obvious contradiction between filing a college motion and making a copy of the paste. And your young man is obviously a detail and attachment of questions that are, all of them, out of time and out of time, because he came today after a lecture on the ILP of universities, which lasted what it lasted, because we were discussing the tax download, and I didn't remember you. It's just that I don't think he came to the stand. And come now to say that you propose a tax download seems to me out of time. I think it would be nice if the university motions didn't copy them; he's a bad student and he's a bad congressman. On the university bureaucracy I will not say king, because, in fact, you do not say anything either. But I went straight to point 13, which is what I particularly liked the most, or so, I think it's where you guys give for debate, because the rest of the place doesn't say anything. "Delete from university plans and legislation all measures related to immersion in catalá and ideologically speaking. That is to say, if this young man is approved, we have a task that I think is unaffordable in the current university system, which is to suppress català, the ideology of genere. What do we do with sociology assignments, anthropology assignments, university genera studies? I understand that we have to suppress all this, because it bothers you that universities have rules against sexual abuse, for example – to universities – and it seems to them profoundly ideological and annoying. Against the climate change, which I assume we have to go to the Faculty of Biology to say that the gene was studied. That it seems profoundly ideological that the climate change and evolution is being studied in the Faculty of Biology, that much better the holy Writings. And to see, why, clearly, do you consider, in this academic asepsis, that it is profoundly ideological that Paul Preciado studied at the Faculty of Biology, Judith Butler studied, under this mantra of "why does my son have to study a person who says he is homosexual? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When the honest question should be: who is it that you or your child consider to be to say what is to be studied and what is not to be studied in a public university in this country? Who thought it was to question in this country the freedom of the chair, the right to education and the right to freedom of education in this country? And there's a problem. He said the Nacho..., he did an apologia of moderation, and he said it because at this point he has typed some things; he has typed some things in plan « yes, but here you have already happened. And I think that in this perverse game we will always lose it, because there will always be something that will seem profoundly ideological to you based on this science that makes you see that its harms, also scientific, have no ideological basis. The university has studied many things that say they have scientific origin and that they have scientific basis, such as the Lord Vallejo-Nájera, the « Mengele spanyol, which makes psychiatric studies ask themselves whether « red is born or done. And he was looking for the communist genre and publishing scientific articles. We understand that behind these scientific positions there are also prejudices and there is also ideology. And that, therefore, the universities must be free spaces of their harms. I don't know... it always seemed like a bit of a trick to me to say that I gave Unamuno that universities are the temples of intelligence. I believe that, as intelligent people, there is no outside university and that, as stupid people, there can be no inside. That's all right. As I said, intelligence and stupidity are democraticly distributed across all institutions. What should be the university is a reference of critical experience, critical analysis of the reality we live in, and transformative will from this critical spirit. And I believe that, with dead universities as you propose, this country would not advance. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.119.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.120.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we're going to support most of the motion; in fact, sixteen of the eighteen points, which are those that relate to the reduction of fees, fees, elimination of charges, bureaucratic simplification, stabilization of staffing, improvement of staff replacement rate, etc.. So to reach sixteen of the points. But we cannot support two of them, which are 13 and 16. The 13th – it has been commented on in another sense to which I will now do – says "to delete" in general – of the strategic plans and existing university legislation of Catalonia all measures relating to linguistic immersion in Catalan or of an ideological nature related to the gender perspective, climate change and references to multiculturalism and immigration. I'd ask you to say exactly what text, what article and what it says. Because I, like Mr Acosta, have devoted myself to teaching for many years and have seen everything. I have seen references to the gender and immigration perspective that may seem out of place in university materials, and others that may seem logical and shareable to me by anyone. I think that before supporting something like this, it would be good to say exactly what articles and which universities they refer to. I think it would be the most rigorous, because generalizing in these cases is very dangerous. You have already seen that everyone else is doing it in the opposite direction; do not fall into the same mistake. And, since we are talking about falling into the same mistakes, I was particularly surprised at point 16: "To complement the work carried out by the Agency per a la Qualitat of the Universitari System of Catalonia with an external evaluation agency, with the aim of improving the transparency and independence of the educational evaluation processes. I mean, you want to set up an agency, you guys, the chiringuitos? Come on, unless you think that agency will be able to decide you, I'm afraid if you create a new one they'll decide, huh? , with which we would have another chiringuito, using the usual terminology in this chamber. Frankly, are there problems of transparency? There are. But creating a new agency to control a pre-existing one seems to me to be an absolutely Kafkian point, which has nothing to do with the rest of the motion, which, I insist, on some points seems reasonable and that we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.121.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.122.0	Thank you, President. Today VOX presents us with a motion from an inquiry that was made to the councillor. A long, divided young woman who raises all the issues that seem to them to be better off than the university system. These are proposals that – as I said earlier – we do not see clearly, which means that we will all vote against them. Now, yes, some of his petitions and assertions, that we believe they do not bring us anything again, I beat them with data. Talk about reducing the prices of credits of degree, master, etc. I would explain to him that, as a result of the national pact for the knowledge society, an agreement was reached with all the stages in order to guarantee, first, the equity of access to higher education, also to complete the process of reducing public prices by shielding the drop of thirty per cent of public prices, to equalize the prices of grades to the lowest level, and thus to eliminate any economic bias in the study tria, as well as to establish equal prices between grades and masters. In addition..., and here I want to highlight the good work of the council, since this course 22-23 is expected to lower the price of the credit of more than twenty-yes_per_cent in average and more than thirty-three_per_cent in the high degree of experimentation and in the masters, setting the same price of 18.46_euro per credit. And, in addition, the pay per income is maintained for lower levels with a one-seventy and one-eight percent bonus of the price. It is to say, that it is from 1,600 euros of the subjects to 1,100, so that it can sort – that is, because this is clear – the university career for vocation, not for economic capacity. The Government is committed to ensuring access to university, and, of course, to ensuring the presuppositional sustainability of all universities. Also, at some of their points, they talk about research. And it doesn't seem to be enough, it doesn't invert enough. At this point I would explain to him the capacity for European financing that Catalonia has, and I'll give him some data. Catalonia has captured 1,740_million euros during the 14-20 period coming from Europe. From these, 524, about thirty_per_cent, have been captured for the search centers, which participate of 1,112 projects, for which it is located Catalonia in the fifth entity with more capture. Now well – and I can tell you the truth – each of these points of this young man could go to him debating and rebutting and arguing that we disagree. But I have to say that I don't know if I can give so many explanations to a party that I constantly defend shutting down the Parliament, that I can shut down the institutions of Catalonia. And, frankly, we don't think you've just worried about Catalonia. And, in addition, when it has been seen that with this electoral campaign in Andalusia only proclaim against Catalonia so as to increase Catalanophobia and achieve, quite simply, a few more votes. We, like Junts, are a serious party, which values Catalonia and works for Catalonia, for the Catalonia of Yes, to build and help day by day to make a Catalonia for our citizens, who can live there every day better. We are also clear that this will not happen until we truly have a state close to us. But, look, I'll use a few words from my dear friend Carles Capdevila. And he explained that in life, in institutions, in the way of doing, there are two types of people or two ways of doing: some are entrepreneurs, that they look at life with optimism, with illusion, that before problems they stay and that they seek solutions, and others are entrepreneurs, that they only destroy, always negating and always standing up to the wheels. I make it clear to you, and obviously, in Catalan, because I understand, that Together we are from the first group. You, with your way of doing it and your way of acting for Catalonia, will decide which group they are, but I have clear where they belong. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.123.0	And finally, on behalf of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.124.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Members of Parliament. I have to say that the first person who surprised me of this young man, coming from a group who claim to be traditionalists, is to present a letter to the King in June. They may have confided in and the arrival of a king of the East, so he turned them away, but the king who came a few weeks ago was the one who took the money, not the one who carried it. [[Some applause.]] It looks like after this year this is still political, so it doesn't look like it's for the extreme right-wing group. Let's go back to where you were when there were political debates that affected the university this year. Month of November, debate of assumptions in commissions: looking for bronchi to the Autonomous. Months of fever, debate of the ILP to Parliament: looking for bronchi to the Pompey. Zero exams to the ILP. Cap participated politically in the debates of the tax reduction. So now they're coming here with a whole set of proposals. I have to say, they've tried hard, because they've been pinned down by the català to create an appearance and disguise a mike. But, listen, to do these things are resourceful. Because there are resources, so that there is a government that makes them go and, therefore, that agrees with the flexibility of the repositioning fee, with lowering university taxes, with making the transfer, by the way, of scholarships, which agrees with these proposals that we could say more social, above all that must not be done is to vote for the extreme right. Because they would eliminate the institutions, eliminate the rights, eliminate the governments that are going to make the policies, because the paper can't stand it all. That's to run, that's to stand there, and that's not winning with motions in Parliament, it's winning in the legislative work, it's winning in this government's work, which, if you won't win a few elections, you'll demolish stone to stone. From here, and celebrating, therefore, that, by the way, they recognize the usefulness of this Parliament, of this Government, and hoping that from now on they will present some message, that they will see from so much as the register, that, in fact, the law of science that will be approved soon, that we do have a clear line: that of the decree of imminent price, that of the ILP that has approved, that of the law of science that will be approved soon, that of the assumptions that have increased from this new council, therefore, that it was a bet of the Government. And finally, to tell you that I am not surprised that I have begun to disguise all this speech from the spies, from the vigilance to the universities and all this, because after the ridiculous to have unmasked that there was a spy, that there was an infiltrator, but it turns out that it was national police and not cultural, rather than fire away from running a thick veil. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.125.0	Well, and finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the parable of Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.126.0	Thank you very much, President. I welcome Mr Martín Blanco's reflection: temperance is necessary and, above all, now. All those who know me, no one will be able to reproach me that I have not always followed this maxim: to be, therefore, tolerant and to let myself be guided by temperance. Several things I can say in a short time. To Mr González, of the Socialist Party, I remind him that we did not come late to some of the proposals, and that too I would like to comment to the Members of En Comú Puem. It turns out that the ILP was approved in April – April – 2022. For we have introduced into the register – the one that Mr Morales made special mention of – a motion for a resolution requiring that the price of credits be lowered to 16.05, as I argued in my speech. Oh, what a thing! In June 2021... Madame de la CUP... By the way, if you don't know the organism to which I refer is the ATM. In case you had to write it down, next time I will try to further break things down, because I understand that some, then, may not reach that level of realization. About what the CUP lady said, she simply says she does not want to discuss with us, with VOX, because we present many inconsistencies in our motion. Man, to your incongruity, that you want is a society, the establishment of communist, tribal, compulsive, separatist society, I do not know, as I wish to call it, through the revolution of the proletariat and violent. Man, that doesn't marry much with a rule of law in which you're participating. Issues out of place and time, we have already commented on them. And finally, about Republican Left, man, his hypocrisy is capital. Who I was looking for was you, Mr. Morales; it was you chasing a five-year-old boy in Canet [[some applause]] to the front of the slavery, manifestation or call whatever they want, which formed the separatist groups, that is indeed repulsive and disgusting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.127.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will be in place when we finish the order of the day this late. [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the Correspondent Parliament at 2021]] [[360-00008/13]] Let's move to the fifth point of the order of the day, the presentation of the report of the Synod of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to the year 2021. Before starting this point, I would like to greet, in the name of the chamber, the heavyweight syndic and members of his team who are here today with him and accompany him from the platter. And, according to Article 181 of the Rules, the syndic will present a general summary of the report he has submitted. And that's why Mr. Rafael Ribó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.128.0	Thank you, President. Thank you to all the assistants at this point in the order of the day. Formally, I have to present the annual report of the syndic of 2021, already discussed in the syndic's committee – I don't remember exactly the date, but a few months ago –, as they have also been discussed in the syndic's committee the other annual reports of 2021: the one that presents all the rights of children in agreement with the Geneva Convention, as established by Catalan legislation; the one that presents all the actions of the Catalan Mechanism of Prevention of Torture, and the one that presents everything that affects the assessment of transparency and access to information. Or else, I complete with the mandates that you, or your predecessors, have established on the figure of the syndic of heavyweights. I'd be ready to start the intervention... Independently... I'm sorry, first I wanted to say them: independently of all the monographic, specific reports, about many of the materials that they have at their abst to the syndic's web and Parliament's registry, I'd be ready to start the intervention by flooding them with ciphers, huh? , as, for example, reminding them that 2021 is the word, that I don't like people, that we've hit again the record of the name of complaints. And I don't like it because a society that is moving forward in a democratic maturity should, if in any case, in the name of complaints, understand by complaint a very noble act, more than the ex-abrupt coffee, that can make a person when you see a problem in a public company, in an administration or in a private company that you don't serve of general interest, that has the courage to plant it. And say courage because today, 2022, there are people who have to lodge complaints, for the sake of reprisals, and that, if it is resolved, it cannot only benefit that person, or perhaps even that person, but many other people, and, above all, that we improve the government of administrations and, therefore, the welfare of society. The memory, I say again – obviously, of the year 2021 – is clear, both in name and in working complaints. Let's face it... there's this whole perspective... we're approaching 700,000 people, and the whole perspective of previous years or performances, 370,000, etc. But, I say again, it's not my intention today to detail all the complaints, all these figures, that they have, precisely, in the documents and the syndic's website. Yes, I wanted to tell you that things that are worth undermining are that we have greatly increased the displacement for the territory: we are getting out weekly overruns from the territory to collect all kinds of needs, consultations, complaints, etc. That we've increased the number of reports we've delivered to the chamber. That has improved the ranking of the citizenry, as they value the inquiries, absolutely private, secret, of the performance of the syndic – institution. And that, besides – this is what least pleases me – we go out, but very little, the period of response of the complaints, which implies the period that the person'marries and facilitates the material, the period that the administrations triangulate to answer us, the period that we work until we make the resolution. But we still have to go to a shorter period in this sense because we can be more effective. And, in this sense, leaving behind the collaboration we have had with many administrations in Catalonia – the proof is that we are still at the bottom and bottom of the bargain for a hundred of the syndic's resolutions accepted–, leaving aside, we would have to compromise everyone to the fact that in the future the work of the syndic's institution was still more agile and with greater celerity and we could give a better result to people. That is to say, I can say this by thanking all my colleagues for the task they are doing and without which I would be impossible to be in this forum talking. I'd like to talk to them about fears. And it was also time to start talking about issues reading them complaints, like those that I've cleared this morning or those that I may have untied on the last day of 2021, the typical unstructured coexistence unit that is about to be deboned, that has a basic sub-administration level, that there's quite an aggressive slowness in getting a series of official helpers. You fear that, in its reality, any imagination of those who can go to revel·lar, and that new·len, with all the right of the world, facing serials and all that we read, we see at times of disembarkation. But it may be much clearer to tell them that 2021 makes it worse for two phenomen, that it's the quake of the crisis and the one that stops social left, and the pandemic, the cove, that it's not that I believe new lefts, but that it's lefts and, above all, there's no evidence that we may not be very conscious. And that's even more dramatic the stories that can reach the Greuges Synod. It is obvious that, if we were to report 2022, then there would be a third factor, for which I must say to him: everything that is derived from the war situation in Ukraine and what it means in the sense of inflation, in the sense of food crisis. And we don't think that if we talk about the food crisis, we'll talk about sub-Saharans or about countries in the name of Third World; we can talk, for example, that the food bank is very busy, where they were used and used, to be able to finance to facilitate a daily thing, that is to eat, to give food to people. We, in the report, again note a very high number of complaints about social problems, in a broad social sense, public policies of well-being. And, obviously, in a year we have to start with salvation; not because it is the matter that, in proportion to the name of possible users who enjoy what is public sanitation, causes a name of complaints– proportionally, it is certainly of the least –..., yes as to the size of the topic and its various chapters. A public greeting which, from the outset, is excellent, a public greeting which runs a huge risk of being progressively eroded by the privatization of health services. Studying – it's a lot more complex than I'm saying – why is it going to happen and who can end up and still benefit from public money through the privatization of sanitation, money that the contributor pays, for salvation, and that can go to the benefit that even they spend on a purse – and that's how I study it very seriously. But a sanitation that has a very important problem at the entrance door, which is as evidenced by 2021 in the primary assistance services, the CAPs, which have to undergo major changes in the middle of the covid crisis, but which will then be re-adapted to the situation and, above all, finance with more means than they have until now. I say to you again that, after passing a hard time, perhaps the worst days – and I forgive you – to save my life, I have had the enormous privilege of accompanying many visits to many health centres, and I can see from what point of view the enormous effort that the professionals have made, much more than the applause, to transform everything that had taken hold of all the unsuspecting and in the face of that crisis. The year 2021, especially for vaccinations. What have you been complaining about? So much. As, for example, on the certificate of vaccinations on the covid; as, for example, on the turns; as, for example... Obviously, there is a public policy of hundreds of thousands of tons, of vaccinations... sure that there are human failures and that they generate complaints that reach the syndic. But I am more interested in underlining the issue of the need for more than ever the integral plan for primary assistance; recognition, not only in word, but also with personal and promotional work, of the professionals of health, of all the scales of salvation; the provision of major means of reversal in health, and, obviously, the major connection of health with scientific research. And again to say it: 2021, it is a scandal that there is sleeping the dreams of the just 9,000 million euros of the general budgets of the state approved for the covid crisis and that there is no disposition of these moneys; not in Catalonia, to all the autonomous communities with their corresponding percentage that would touch them. It's incomprehensible. It's from those things I can't hear, beyond the tripijoc, that it's not transparent people, that public money is about. It is obvious that, for all those who do salvation, there are many sectors of improvement such as, for example, mental salvation, which does not correspond only to salvation, as the same salvation is not only the Department of Salvation; the salvation of people also passes through habitation, passes through working conditions, passes through education. Mental salvation goes through many more of these dimensions that I have just mentioned. But it is obvious that the coven has shown us even more, it has raised much more still the problem of mental salvation, especially between minors and infants. We, in the second place, have always placed them, not because they are graons, as someone said to me: "It seems that you are posing categories... Salut has an undeniable category: it occupies forty_per_cent of the Generality's assumption. But in the second place, and possibly also by volume, also by importance, we find everything that affects education: the right to equal education; we go from the right to equal education. It's been a long time since we've been together, and we've been trying to figure out the differences in this right. There is an inequality of educational opportunities in Catalonia. Some experts may say that we are at forty-six, forty-sep_per_cent segregation. It's not a xifra problem. It is very clear that, if there is another public service where everyone has to be able to access, there is not the same equal opportunity to access education with quality. Hence the pact against school segregation, where the department was added, practically the whole educational community. We have advanced, with a reduction around the deu_per_cent. We're far from what it would be; we're possibly going a little too slow – we've moved on. Caldrian more medium and warm, obviously, take more into account things that are now assigned to the beginning of..., to the beginning of the bidding of places as a problem, which is the detection of educational needs because we can invest, where there is more need, more resources. And this is absolutely transparent to the 2021 report. Fent, moreover, a cultural change for what makes the school inclusive. The syndic is not against, as someone has said, that there are special educational choices. No, no, He's in favour of us being inclusive education, keeping the right of whom I want this special education. This means a change of culture and all of the teachers, who think that this was only at the hands of the monitors who take care of the inclusive school: it is a cultural change of the entire educational community, which we have not yet been able to seriously consolidate or put into the world of education. And obviously, in the educated world, I can't help quoting what the linguistic model means. Those who wear a few years in this house – some, absolutely in favour; some, fiercely against – know that I tell them that we have a model that is a tresor and that, if the curse, it will be a monumental error, when there are societies in Europe where there are physical buffets – not just dialectics, no, physical buffets – for linguistic reasons, and when the Council of Languages of Europe, again a year, when it makes its report on the situation of languages puts Catalonia as an example. Of course it can be all, some, that it's been going on since I don't know where. The members of this Council of Europe were changing, and they reiterated the praise of the language model in Catalonia. And I would like to say to myself, to some Members and Members who have many objections, to go together with them or with them to be informed, to discuss, etc., with those who, on the outside of the legitimate and necessary democratic contradiction of this Chamber, are watching us about the linguistic situation. We are talking about something that depends a lot on pedagogy, a lot on learning – not on percentages, a lot on learning – and a lot on understanding that there is a huge wealth in Spain when there are four languages: the castle – not Spanish, which is separatist –, the català, the basc and the gallec. As the Spirit says to La pell de brau, « always remember this, Sepharad. / Make sure the bridges of the dialog remain secure and try to understand and estimate/ the different reasons and words of your children. Who applied Article 3.3 of the Constitution? Constitutional mandate? Spanish public powers to promote and protect other languages? Who applied it? And I'm talking to him about a warrant he's had since '78. Figure out what your age is. And I would also point out that, again, in this matter, the syndic has very few complaints, as any other defender of the geography of the Spanish State has – and I advance before anyone wants to take this example –, so easy to prove as they look at the corresponding memoirs. Yes, it's a shame that in a cultured matter we also have few complaints. I don't say heritage anymore. And I'll complain about it again. A country that has little to do with its heritage..., fails something, and that the citizenry does not have enough care in the instrument of complaint – as I said before, a noble instrument – to raise problems around the heritage, is mitigating and means that we may not promote a culture enough, starting with the support of great creators, some of whom must go outside to seek the support, and possibly to the expansive multiplier of these throughout the geography of the territory. And, thirdly, we have to – it's not bad to say, I'll say it every year while we don't change it – the third chapter, which is the one that's most unpacked, that of directly social policies, that of policies that can be proven with all its indicators and that show – says that it is now fashionable, disarrayed – the enormous vulnerability that there is in a way that grows to our society. We decided to create the Syndicate's Social Emergencies Table with the most important entities on the social front a couple of years ago, and in the midst of the crisis we decided to create the most important new entities; there are no others, we started with these – from the Food Bank to the Friends of the Great Gent, passing through what Dincat means, which means Fundesplai, Creu Roja, Caritas, etc. They're the ones who never stopped being in the trench. We discussed this morning with arrest experts – there are many local syndics and many academic authorities – about the digital bretxa, and they were talking about the pre-date. In the midst of the crisis there were public services that neither previa nor digital bretxa; they closed. And, on the other hand, who was in the Bretxa without closing it were these. They're the ones who... as Primo Levi would say, this is a man, when he explains Auschwitz, the greatest experience that can explain a person who survives it, who is the frontal fight with his life to fascism, and says: "No, they tell me that I can explain it because I've been a girl of Robinson Crusoe. He says: "No, Robinson Crusoe fought, with all right, for his life, and I fought with all my companions who survived the struggle for the lives of all, who were struck by what the bestiality of Nazism meant about the survival of people. Those who are in the trench, on a reduced scale, are the ones who have been fighting and continue to fight at every moment about the worst conditions that we can have in social problems at home. I have to say that the two times I have asked the Vice-President and President-in-Office, and now President of the Generality, we meet with him, with advisers or advisers, because I listened to him, we have had positive answers. And so good is the one who stood in these meetings forward. And we're so good at emerging. There is still an emergence – 2021 and 2022 –, and this means, if you like, stick – I don't need another word: emergency solutions – but because we don't always have an emergency solution, structural reforms – and in this report they have a bunch of proposals – and obviously a recognition of how it started with the legislation on these entities. In this apartment I will start again, as always, for the great people. We need to change the model of attention to the big people. The covid crisis doesn't give us a crisis of residences. The residences by definition are to reside there. They're not prisoners, they're not cynics closed for the big people. You said the word. And then we need to know how to differentiate the treatment and cure of the great people according to the problems they have. And the most advanced countries, on which I would like you to continue my country, start by caring for the great people at home, at home, with all the public and private media that are necessary and possible. It's an absolute change... a radical fall. And it's even more fucked up, if you focus on a model that's absolutely different from what we're focusing on today, that even has a share that's bag cooking and that allows a certain exploitation of something as important as the cure of the big people. There's a radical change in the big people, there's a follow-up to the big people, and there's a much deeper listening to the big people, who have a lot of different degrees of knowledge and ability to act and teach each other to their own society. It is as important as this chapter that if we are talking, in this social area, about housing, housing, what are the emergencies, that there are still large cities in Catalonia today that after recognizing, assessing the emergency, as shown in the 2021 report, give a solution that takes two years to see the emergency. We are no longer talking about the award of a park of "social living" or logging policies: to the emergence! A two-year wish for the absence of serious social housing parks with a special promotion of the logger, for not having used when it should have used everything that meant that all contributors paid in the bank's toxins; he said. There were more people who benefited from private butchaques, and today there is no serious policy, when it is already in public hands, because it is massively reversed because it is able to make a housing policy. In that quote I told you that you could read them complaints, going back to 2021, a lot of complaints that refer to people who have to end up in camps, pensions or other types of facilities during months and months, with families, with descendants, such as, while waiting for the solution to this problem of emergence. Obviously, in the social apartment it's a xifra, but it's a worrying xifra. The poverty rate continues to rise. The social exclusion risk rate continues to rise. And there is a series of factors that still make it worse, as is the whole issue – I mentioned inflation; this would be more quickly as it was in 2022 – as would be the subject of the basic sub-administrations and the invoices of these sub-administrations, the much clearer policies of condoning these debts or of beginning to exercise the theme of social accountants. A layer that crosses all these policies that deserve a special chapter is, of course, childhood and adolescence. They have a monographic report on respect. I say that because, in today's accounts, I am entertained about this, there are all the performances and predictions the trustee has made of respect, saying that there is a right that we may not respect very much. Minors and infants have the right and the right to listen. Not the child's silence. He was able to listen and co-participate in the measures taken in many of the dimensions of his life. And they have a higher interest, defended by international treaties that we all recognize and that we do not apply in public policies and that should give place to certainly priorities in the award of certain public benefits. And it'd be nice to encourage a lot more collide. Again, it's more like a family welcome than bringing them even in months to residences. And I return to play with the ambivalence of the word'residence', to close them there. Make a much more supportive policy of this welcome. All this respects the great questions of the complaints of 2021, which pass in a country that is called Catalunya, which has a territory and a natural one that surely we do not take into account as a basic right. It's an elementary right, it's a fundamental right, the preservation of territory, of energies, of all its benefits. For us and for the generations that come. Tell him, "climate change, all the measures that you want to agree with the international debate. I'll tell them in a whining key. Air contamination. In the middle of the low cove; after the cove it goes back up again. Maybe we're looking at what happened and what we can... And now we're discussing – let me make a current parenthesis – the AP-7. Maybe if you thought what was going on when I managed to forcely reduce a circulation and what we should have bet and what we should be betting on now. Where is the serious stake in public transport, especially railways? There are European countries that have advanced, even in the midst of the crisis, with encouragement to respect this measure. And water contamination. We continue to have communities in Catalonia where water is not drinking because we have the contamination of the purins. And it's neither yesterday nor yesterday. If it's 2021, it's because it's been years since we've been in our territory. The soroll. We have a right to rest, it's an elementary right. We're an immature society because we don't respect it. It's one of the proofs of our immatureness. We have right to rest and we have a set of urban agglomerations where a problem is number or soroll, and we don't know how to fight with the corresponding pedagogy, with the corresponding measures and, if so, with the many corresponding ones. And it's an elementary right that every time up the syndic more like a simple, basic and strong claim. I also think about what genuine policies of redistribution of the territory population would mean. The seventy_per_cent of the population, in the set_per_cent of the territory. Perhaps it would be worth it if... if we had good communications, good connection, good education, good energy in these territories, even with their corresponding protection, we could get us to have much more escaped and at a higher quality of life a good part of our own people and with much more respect for what is this environment and nature. We have rejected timely complaints about things that may not have been well explained, such as carbon dioxide emissions tax or selective collection, or the decree of urgent climate-emergency measures. The selective gathering, the policy of renewable energies, all this, which are positive measures, demands not command and order, calls for an important period of explanation, encouragement and conviction, of education to the people because they are vaginas accustomed to a change of their daily life as a function of some objectives, such as that of the preservation of the environment. And lastly, I enter the right side of what it means to be civil and political rights. I am not telling you that every time I weigh more think that we do not all have the same rights, that there are citizens in Catalonia, as can be the great majority of us, that we have the full from legal recognition. If we are European citizens of the European Union but we are not of Spanish nationality, we have a little less. If we're from outside, from third countries, and we've got the papers fixed, we've got a little less. And if we're not in any of these categories, we have a lot less. Seven-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-th-thousand-thousand-th-thousand-thousand-th-thousand-th-thousand-th-thousand-th-sand-th-sand-th-sand-th-th-th-th-country-th-th-sand-th-th-th-th-sand-th-thousand-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th Three years, at least, in hiding. And then, according to how, at the end of the three years, it allows, that it can last one, two or three years, to normalize the situation. The band of bills, of course, and of your age. This is, in the first place, a very important theme to take into account, as the absolute discrimination of the rights, regardless of which we also receive and propose to combat specific decreases, such as the equality of genera, such as that of the LGTBI rights, etc. By the year 2021 we still had a lot of situations coming from the state of alarm, and obviously there were things that could be wrong right. What were you guys gonna need? It's a public policy debate. That they could affect rights? Possibly, I can keep that in mind. If not, like a lesson. For example – and if someone has taken it as a provocation, ask for forgiveness – you are elected as MPs and MPs with an increase of 20 per cent in abstention. And it was because, for fuck's sakes, there was a situation that reduced electoral participation in those elections. Remember that there was a big debate, there was an attempt to postpone the elections, there was an intervention by the judiciary, it was necessary to keep the elections on a certain date and a long etcetera. That's 2021. We think we need to pamper the right to good administration for everyone. With the delay; we continue to have three_months of response in public documents, three_months – I know it's Spanish legislation – when most of us can consult things in fractions of a second. I know you have to make sure, and you have to contrast. But three months! You're incomprehensible! But, apart from this, disputes in the local powers that are dilated for weeks and months and that, therefore, stop the legitimate aspirations of an economic activity. And that's happening to the administration in Catalonia today. Or the technique I've mentioned before of the pre-date or digital brettxa, which particularly affects large people or people with little culture at this level. We can have a supply and demand per cent of mobile phones, of people who have mobile phones; we don't get to fifty per cent of the people who usually use the computer at home. And, then, we could go through fractional things that could affect this size. It's much more respectful of respect. It is a good policy of security, which begins with social policies. I know there is a discussion in this Parliament about the police model in Catalonia, in which I have been summoned to participate. Far from it, social policy. Fighting insecurities means social policy, not falling under the umbrella of insecurity and detailed freedoms. With good social policies and raising the level of well-being, we can reduce a lot of motivations that can make us less secure. And I mean a serious police model, with a sure and certain belief in the Squads as the full police of Catalonia, at all levels, even with international recognition or with the recognition of the skills they don't have today and that the State is and should have, as is the whole issue of protection of nature, as are many other questions. This full-time police must have a good coordination with local police, of which the syndic in 2021_has helped a lot to go to close detention units because he is away with as little time as possible from the Squadron Roads and is missing the period of detention, and a good coordination with all that is across communities with the police of the State. I have a major effort at all levels of security. It may take more account of the people who are deprived of freedom, who have rights and who respect themselves, at all levels. We didn't practice a few in the middle of it, 2021, when we made it easy for all of them to communicate with their families, like those they did years ago who knew nothing about their families and were able to connect them through the iPad pants that were distributed to prisoners to make these types of contacts. Positive measure, and so much solidifying anessim. We need to get the promotion of a good policy to work at the prison centers, with all the laurels in the pocket they make, to make a pocket on behalf of all of us for the frailties they represent for all of us in prison. That's right, with respect for the rights, too. And we are in discussion with the current government on containment measures, which agree with the European conviction of human rights we may have abandoned, as regards respect for rights. And maybe we could take a step back. This will also be found on the 21st report and then in a monogram report delivered to this Parliament. And apart from the right, obviously, I must quote the Council of Europe. I know that some Members think that the Council of Europe is a bodrio, it is something that is there. It is a council that has the planetary task of vetting for the most important human rights convention that exists, the European convention, and for this reason it has a binding court, a commissioner – because it is now a commissioner – of Human Rights, it has a commission of democracy through the law, which in the day of the Venice Commission, it has a parliamentary assembly and makes motions, resolutions, judgments, etc. And Spain in part, and Spain sends its parliamentarians: senators and deputies, and there are also Catalans. And it turns out that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, by an overwhelming vote, says that there must be pardons; that all Euroorders and persecutions must be left beyond the borders; that all political persecution must be ended at the expense of them; that there must be no economic persecution through what the Court of Auditors means; that there must be a dialogue between them within the framework of the Spanish Constitution and with political fruits. Seven recommendations, of which it had perhaps been supplemented, but we have now seen that for a retirement change in a member of the Supreme Court there may be a re-opening of the revision on the grant of indults. It is not normal, and for this syndic, it is indignant, that there are public charges, starting with councillors of this government, deputies of this chamber, who have pending cases before the courts. [[Greetings.]] It is indignant when the Council of Europe says it has to end. The syndic doesn't say, the syndic doesn't make it up. And perhaps the syndic has a magic power to inflate on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The deadline for completion is over I don't know what day at the end of June and, as I was told by the Spanish government when I was invited to be the pontiff in Strasbourg, we still have time. So much bo– so much bo–, if we still have time, we could complete this mandate. The rights need information. And you're in charge here, elected syndicate, of guaranteeing the rights: information, accessibility and follow-up. But they need willing to realize them. Says a poet friend of mine, in a quote I made a few days ago to the Hospital de Sant Pau, with a few splendid verses: « To the country where I live/ the people that I may not want, / the people that I want cannot/ to the country where I live. / If the people who can turn around/ and the people who want to turn around/ other countries would be/ the country on visc. I think you're quite the pitcher. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.129.0	So, after the syndic's presentation of his report for the year 2021, then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.130.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. President, members of the government... well, now I've seen that they were seven minutes; I thought they were god. So, if it's hard enough to sum up a whole report, it's more like doing it in seven minutes. The syndic started saying that maybe he read the complaints he had, more than the reports. I think so much good has done that. I believe that the members of the government have not reached a better conclusion than the syndic's thirst every time he makes some of his reports. I'm telling you because he seems to me to have not commented on the figures, he said there were twelve thousand complaints this year, again. It's true that it's an absolute memory. Of these, more than sixty per cent respect social and health issues. Clearly, one sees the syndic's intervention not only today, but also in others... in the commissions basically, I would think it's the other way around, that, in any case, there are other issues that concern society more than not. The syndic said he was indignant – this discussion was already held by the committee. I understand that it is also indignant that the syndic, making an extra limit of what their functions are, enters, as he has done many times, against what the Venice Commission also says, to judge, to qualify judicial judgments. This you know perfectly well, and we discussed it last year or when we talked about the 2020 report, which the Venice Commission precisely forbids. And so, you skipped every time you do, and you always do it with the same quality. To me, taking advantage of the fact that I have a small government here, I would, therefore, like to say that if someone is reading not so much the report, but the data provided by this report, he will see that this 2021 which has been done is basically a collapse of public services, basically in sanitation and in social services. The same syndic says this doesn't have an apparent cause. It basically attributes it to the covid. Obviously, the covid had a lot to see, but we should also bear in mind that 2020 for everyone caught us unsuspecting, which was the covid, but 2021 does not have this excuse. The syndic doesn't talk about it, but there are several other items that are important to see. I will not repeat what I said at the time with respect to social services, the bad planning that there was, people who wanted to process services, who were overflowing with social services; there was no program contract that was funded; there were no media. Actually, we don't have the special social service program at these times. The same theme in sanitation. The syndic also spoke of other themes, but to me what, for example, I am concerned – that the syndic does not refer to it either – is respect for the topic of performance, guaranteed income from citizenship. I have already told you, Mr. syndic, at your time that if 2020 the Idecat said that the population with severe material deprivation reached 6.2_per_cent and affected 474,000 people– more or less – and on 31 December the Social Rights Department was saying that it only recognizes the guaranteed income of 170,000 people, perhaps here in your report is where you should have done so, both you and the syndicate as, obviously, all the members of the Government, or, in any case, of the corresponding department. Because there are 300,000 people who at this time are in a severe and unprotected material deprivation. The same goes – and it seems to me that it came out in yesterday's debate – respects the sufficiency income indicator of Catalonia, which continues since the frozen year 2010. And that has a lot of relevance. Regarding the disability, the same. I have already commented, Mr. Syndic, at your time that a 1.5_per_cent we are only able to insert them into the private enterprise. This is a minimum insertion fee. Well, in any case, I won't be talking more about background issues than the report, because I don't have time, but I would love to talk about a little bit, and taking advantage of the fact that we're probably having the last year that you are going to be, and we're going to have the syndicate change in process, but I would like to reflect on the union and these mandate years. And I have to tell him that I'm a very young man, because I saw him until the year he passed from outside and now I've seen him from inside. And I'm very disappointed, because I think it's done the most that you say the masses bite, and an institution that isn't elected as it is the syndic's, this one, that has been said years, I think it's done worse than good, but not to you, but to the institution. Because I already seem to have told you once – and they reminded me today –: you were an excellent Member at your stage in Parliament, and I think you have shown today that you are still an excellent Member at your stage of syndicate. [[Greetings.]] And I'm telling you, I'm not just referring to what I've said many times, to his independence. Yes, I've told you many times – the company Marta Moreta had asked for it, I had asked for it – that it is positional, since it was positioned on other aspects of the process, on which it passed on September 6 and 7, 2017. I have to admit that the last committee did it, just the last one I'm sure I've ever seen. But, all this being serious, as we understand it to be very difficult to get this argument, there are other questions that we have commented on many times that we also seem to have weakened the union's institution. We know the data you provide, but we believe that these data are completely incomplete, because we lack the socioeconomic origin of the people who complain, the cultural level, the level of studies, similar circumstances... Therefore, we do not know whether these data that you are at these times working are correct or not, are indicative or not, whether we have large population bosses and problems that remain invisible. We have also commented to him many times that his union has been very closed; it has closed itself. You've been downtown, when what you should have been downtown is the city. The evidence shows that. You said that twelve thousand complaints and that they have gone forward, but we are a universe of seven million people who are directly related to all administrations. Twelve thousand complaints to us seem few to us. And you also talked about the sorties that you made to the territory, but, of course, with a cipher of – and we've always told you that we agreed –... that with all the sorties that you've done, there have only been eight hundred consultations, you leave us..., well, it's an indication of the people's confidence in the union. In addition, only a two-per-cent of the rebud complaints are present. This with a digital bretxa – which you, in addition, have done some days on this subject today, you are not aware – also indicates a lot of who and how it goes and is related to the union. Also what we have expressed to you many times: you have focused everything on the union, you have focused everything on your union, let's say so, but you have left on the margin public right-wing corporations, joint ventures, regional councils – I mean, president. What we have commented to you many times: the fact that you only sign three agreements of collaboration with assemblies during the past year already says a lot. In the same way, the nullity of the collaboration that it had with the offices of the defender of the city, the municipal syndics, that could have made a task of complement. In short, Mr Ribó, you leave an arrival of said years that for us I believe you have been denied, as I said, denied for the institution, and even though you have had some positive aspect, the final balance is denied. Leave a pocket for the next syndicate. You will have to re-prestigate the institution, starting with many of Parliament's groups, but also for the rest of the administration and for the citizenry. We hope that at this new stage there will be dynamism, collaboration and impartiality in the institution, that the union will put the citizens back in the centre of its task and its protection against the actions and omissions of the administrations. It won't be a easy pocket, but that's why we'd stop looking at the past so we wouldn't lose in the future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.131.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergio Macián has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.132.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise... You are brave, I see that the whole government has gone, you have remained at the intervention. Mr Ribó, as a Member of Parliament as early as 1980, as a Member of Congress, as a Secretary General of the PSUC, as a President of the Initiative for Catalonia and as a syndic of heaviness since 2004. After forty-two years in politics, because you have never stopped doing politics, even now in the union, you are already like a postcard of the past. Fixed, in the eighteen years that you have been in the union there have been five defenders of the people: Enrique Múgica, María Luisa Cava de Llano, Soledad Becerril, Francisco Fernández Marugán and the current one, Ángel Gabilondo, each with his style and his personal imprint. Not here. The heavyweight union smells closed down, ideological naphthaline. After eighteen years with you at the front, the union has become one more instrument at the service of the separatist cause and the Government. Proof of this is his reports. And I wanted to look at some of these last monographic reports, which, rather than reports from a defender of the people in defense and guarantee to the citizens of Catalonia, are authentic dosieres of the Government in defense of Puigdemont, of Torra, of Junqueras and company. They're quite a political statement. Look, for example. Report of May 2018 on the violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms on the occasion of the criminal reaction to October One and the application of article 155. In other words, in the syndic's opinion, the judicial response to the serious crimes committed by the trial leaders and the subsequent application of article 155 violated the rights of the coup perpetrators. And it's just the other way around. Here the only violation of rights that has occurred is precisely that caused by the coup d'état to democracy, by the breach of constitutional legality, by the serious damage to coexistence and by the serious crimes committed by the coups. January 2020 report on the judgement of the trial and its alleged impact on the exercise of the fundamental rights of coup perpetrators. Report of November 2020_on_a purported allocation of rights in the prison execution of the sentence of the trial, also with respect to the coups, that we all know that in Catalan prisons they lived in the body of king and had all kinds of privileges and prebendas. Or the September 21 report, in which you are in favour of pardons also in favour of coups, because you, in this sense, are monotheme. All the monographic reports are practically related to the process leaders. And, of course, we understand that these are made to wash the face of separatism, to support the coups. And that is why the parties that give support to the Government applaud him effusively in every commission of the syndic and applaud him today also in this plenary, because his eighteen years of office have been a shameful servileness to the dominant political power. And for this reason today, as on other occasions, VOX demands the suppression of the figure of the Greuges Synod. And we demand it because it is an unnecessary duplicity, which costs us 7_million_of_euro per year, and we already have a defender of the people to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. Because we are sick and tired of the syndic and his team paying millions of dollars, far above the ombudsman, any other autonomous ombudsman, even the president of the Government of Spain. Look, this is the information obtained from the Transparency Portal of the union this year 2022. Heavyweight syndicate, 131,000_euros; general adjunct, 115,000; junior adjunct, 105,000; direct staff, including the chief of staff, 96,788; Champions League salaries. Look, and it's also because it's a hairpin that the Catalans have to finance the syndic's travels, accompanied by his chief of staff, throughout the world. This is already a well-known issue, but in 2019 alone, 74,000_kilometres traveled on idyllic trips to more than fifteen destinations. And what we're surprised is that you've had time to make some kind of report in the meantime. In short, because there are 2,258,000 people in Catalonia, twenty-nine_per_cent of the population, at risk of social exclusion, and these astronomical wages and this life train of the Catalan political establishment in which you are included seem immoral and insulting to us. As far as the report is concerned, I should like to highlight a few points. The covid pandemic during the year 2021. Look, neither a criticism of the health management of the Government nor the economic management of the Generalitat; nor a mention of the two states of alarm declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court thanks to the resources of VOX in July and October 2021. We wonder what the trade union of heaviness is for if in the face of the greater deprivation of rights produced in democracy by a government, both of Spain and of the Generalitat, the syndic is shamefully silent. And not a criticism of the vaccination strategy of the Generalitat of Mrs Vergés i Bosch, who discriminated against national police and civilian guards in a scandalous manner for pure revenge and sectarianism. The pardons? Another chapter. Mr Ribó, you stand in favour of pardons. You stand alongside a president of the unworthy government, who has prostituted the purpose of pardons, who grants ideological pardons either to thumpers or to a kidnapper convicted criminally as is the president of Free Childhood, a convict whom Irene Montero calls "protective mother". And, look, neither this delinquent nor the thugs of the trial have ever repented of anything, nor have they asked for forgiveness, nor have there been any reasons for usefulness, justice, equity, which have justified the granting of pardons, because they have had only one reason, which is to yield to the blackmail of the separatists so that Pedro Sánchez can continue in the Moncloa at any price. With regard to the linguistic rights of Catalans, you have bought the speech of linguistic immersion; linguistic immersion is a clamorous violation of the constitutional rights of all Spanish speaking Catalans and is illegal, it is purely social engineering. And you have always defended non-compliance with the ruling of the TSJ and all judicial decisions in the matter of the Castilian, with absolute contempt for the judiciary and the separation of powers. And, look, finally, in the area of violence and rights, your report is also of great sectarianism. You refer to different cases of violence, but you make no mention of the political violence suffered by VOX, other parties and university associations such as S'Ha Afinet! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Only in 2020, VOX suffered twenty-three attacks by separatist groups and 37.10 of all incidents of political violence in Catalonia. And in the face of this political violence, the syndic has always remained silent. In conclusion, Mr Ribó, I can only tell you one thing. His management at the head of the union has been sectarian and partisan. You've been the syndic of people and you... sorry, you haven't been the syndic of people, but you've been the syndic of the government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.133.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.134.0	Thank you, President. Well, syndicate, thank you very much to you and your entire team for your presence in Parliament and for the report that you submitted to us this late. I will begin, first, talking about the context, the socioeconomic context mainly, in which we can place your report. If we take into account the current situation, which is essential in order to have a more global view, we can talk about the fact that we have accumulated, at least, three crises. In the first place, the 2008 crisis, the totxo crisis, plunder the working people from ultra-liberal housing policies and job insecurity, with the addition of large-scale corruption by parties and elites with a full-fledged state scam that has two names: bank rescue and Sareb. We have to accumulate the crisis of the covid, which manifests the cruelty of the system in an obvious way and how, while the public sanitation was saturated, the private had thousands of empty beds; we knew that at least 3,500, a scandal. If we add infra-habitat and precariousness to this in transport or work places, we see that these inequalities have also affected public salvation and the salvation of the people of the popular classes of our country. But, well, to this situation, as I said, we have to add to the crisis that we are now suffering from the war in Ukraine, which generates, as we know, speculation, energy crisis, food crisis and arms supply escalation to the detriment of public services. What are the consequences of these three cumulative crises in a synthetic way? Increase the inequalities; increase the risk of poverty in Catalonia – you say it very well in your report –; increase the poor child; increase the redistribution of income; there is a speculative increase in prices, which impoverishes the popular classes; improve the occupation from some point of view, but increase job insecurity, especially considering that this occupation increases in the tourism sector and the services and wages lose power. In one year the megawatt hour has gone from 71.49 to 214. This is a shame and a large-scale scam with the connivance of institutions. In the second quarter, denunciations have increased a disset_per_cent, and the energy poverty is on the rise. Public services are still without the minimum resources needed. We see this in health, primary care, waiting lists, and we see it also in education, in which we do not complete inclusive school, school segregation increases and we lack public places. But it also has to be done with other context elements, in which to place your report. In a context marked by male violence, LGBTI-fóbic attacks, institutional racism and the rise of the extreme right, we must pay special attention to the problem of housing: denunciations to vulnerable families, 2,400 in the first quarter of enguany; lack of social and emergency housing, now aggravated by tourist speculation, and repression on the movement for the right to housing. You also refer in your report, syndicate, to the climate change, a climate change that on the part of most governments has as response a hypocritical speech. Speeches and reports of the fight against climate change, speculative projects of extraction and attack on the territory that only increase the risks of this climate change and of this ecological emergence. We have an example in our home: Winter Olympic Games, large infrastructures, macroprojects. You also talked about the language. Indeed, we are in a country where families defending immersion, like, for example, Canet de Mar, according to the TSJ are not subject to law, do not have to be considered in their legitimate requests. Attacks on immersion, attacks on social cohesion in school, with a government response that gives the education community the bait and smoothes the path to bilingualism and school segregation. We can also talk about the terrain of repression, which you also quote. Continue the trials to more than three thousand people retaliated, exile. These very days, a sign of strugglers in defense of the rights of all, in this country, like Gina; all our solidarity, esteem and our demand for their absolution. But she's not alone. In ten days, thirty-three people go to court and fifteen have been cited. He repressed against those who fight against misdemeanours. Limitations and restrictions, as you acknowledge, to the right of expression and freedom of expression, while the extreme right is facilitated for such a free camp for our country and for our territories. All this requires, as you also indicate in your report, a change in the security model, in the police model and, therefore, also in the public order model, and rights. It requires all this to confront a democratic radicality and an inescapable defence of rights. And as he concluded, we are surprised, in this context and in this framework, that his report highlights an increase of forty per cent in social demands; we are surprised that these demands are centered in the field of health, education, rights violated by migrants, the LGTBI-fòbia, which is concentrated in the field of the right to housing, people with disabilities. They are structural problems, syndic; they are not just questions which, as you very well know, correspond to a concrete year. What you do is to look at and reflect a structural problem that is called capitalism, that is called neoliberal policies and that is called policies that prioritize capital and the market over work and rights, and also the rights of the people. The alternatives are clear: social justice, redistribution of wealth, decent work, housing, basic sub-administrations and public transport to everyone, universal and free public services, and a green and social public economy, and also environmental justice. Because, today, in our home, social justice and environmental justice, the healing of the territory, are not destructible. We want the institutions, as you claim, to remain walls in defense of the rights before the capital, the state and the 78 rule. And we want to build a society of masculinism, racism and fascism there is no place; a society where all social, civil and political rights can be exercised, including the right to self-determination as a condition for progress in the struggle for all rights. And I finish, President, with a commission to the syndic – today will probably be his final Ple among us –: thank you and congratulations to you and your team; a great task and a positive impact on the defence of rights, not only reactive, but also the most important, also proactive; not only passively hoping for requests, but also an active search for where the rights are being violated and where we can claim our solidarity and guarantee. Special mention deserves the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and the human rights plan, which the union also wanted to promote. We have had some disagreements, which have been public and visible in this Parliament: the premise of the union – knows and knows well our criticism of institutional assumptions – or the pact against segregation, which we consider to be a tool with good intentions, but useless or, far from it, very useful in order to guarantee the fight against segregation that does not stop. Despite these discrepancies, with everything, congratulations. Thank you, and that's it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.135.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.136.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, syndic, and to the people who accompany you. From the start, thank the report to the syndic and all the team that made this report. That's a good report, huh? Recollecting complaints, pointing hard and announcing answers. I think that's important. We have a report that is useful and, therefore, this is also a level of prestige of the institution responsible for collecting complaints and hardships that, in the future of the administration's activity, of public powers, the city, and has an institution that can convey them, and can even aim and resolve these complaints, rather than focus on the administration itself, on public powers, because it gives an answer. I believe that from the report it is found..., and the syndic gave it in his intervention; without wanting to abound in the data, but it found the reality that the level of complaints is increasing, and that the level of complaints is increasing I believe that we have to hear it in positive terms. From the point of view of the democratic culture of country or society, that people are aware that they have rights and that they can claim their rights think that it is important; that there is an institution that is able to collect the complaint from those who want to demand that their rights are fulfilled think that it is very important. Therefore, we value the increase in complaints in positive, but we also value it in positive because this increase in complaints also allows the union to enter before the government asking for explanations regarding the complaints and the difficulties that citizenship has. And this is important, that the government knows that it has before it an institution that will ask for explanations when citizenship is a complaint; that it is a complaint of citizenship and that someone has asked the government to respond to these complaints. And thirdly, I believe that it is also a very useful report politically for the Members and Members who are here, because it gives us elements, gives us tools to do our political activity and to demand it from the Government, from our legislative capacity, answers that solve the problems that citizens have. Certainly, the report, as it cannot be in any other way, has a leading role to play in complaints concerning social policies, the demand for social rights. It cannot possibly be in any other way, because citizens ask the public authorities to guarantee rights, quality of life, attention to their personal problems, equality, and also, obviously, transparency, information, follow-up. I think that's what I somehow turn back the report, this will of the citizenry that the public powers guarantee him right. That is why it is worthwhile that this report is read very much by the government, in order to adapt its political action to the demand for greater social welfare that demands citizenship. I think the report makes clear some elements because the government is acting, and you say it clearly in five points in the summary you make in the initial considerations, right? : when there is a need to devote more resources to primary care, when it speaks of health, to the consideration and professionalization of health personnel, to research or to technological renewal; when it is, in short, asking for more investment in health. Because there is a social demand, not just for the pandemic, which is also, obviously, a social demand that a better health system is wanted, but it is above all a better primary care, much devalued in the last few years, and this demand is on. There is also the consideration of the importance of the fight against school segregation, as a guarantee of equity in education, of better public service education from the full respect of children's rights. This importance for a quality education, for an inclusive education that does not secrete, that equips children and adolescents with the maximum instruments in order to exercise their rights, both as children and as adolescents, but also to exercise them as full citizens in the measure that vagina emancipating and entering the world of work and social full. I believe that the report also places the need to adapt, to influence the imbalances that the social pillar has in our society. The whole problem of equality, of the equal treatment of people, and the need to place social rights as a basic, fundamental element, in the political action of the Government. And when we talk about this, we talk about many things: we talk about immigrant people, we talk about disabled people, we talk about access to culture, we talk about many questions. But this element, this reference to the social pillar being key to government action, is important. And it also places it, as it cannot be otherwise, this growing concern of citizenship for nature, for the environment, for the respect, in short, also to this sustainability of an evil planet and of some civilizing perils, which also, from everyday policies, goes away. It's not just contamination; it's more things: it's sustainability, it's a lot to respect. And it also places, like the fifth question, the right to self-government and the full willingness of the Government to share in the Catalan, Spanish and European spheres. It places these things, and also that requests for political freedom can never be confronted with the Criminal Code. I think that's important too, because this is back and forth, to hear us, huh? It's all levels. Requests for political freedoms cannot contradict the Criminal Code. This means many things, also this importance of putting at the centre the value of the social dialogue, the value of political negotiation, the political dialogue, in order to move forward, in short, in our society. And I would also like to end by thinking that... I think that the report is also a situation in some way that is the last report the current syndic presents. And he points it out in the report, and I think it's also worth putting it in value, when he says in the report that since March 2019, the staff and staff of the Greuges Synod are prepared for the institutional renewal that the Parliament agrees without failing to obey or promote the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of everyone. This is why a detailed information guide has been prepared for the institution and a material book to which the results of the Account Union are attached. I think this is important because it somehow recognizes that we are ahead of a reality, we are ahead of an expired mandate, but this expired mandate has not prevented the union from doing its job fully. But it has made manifest the incapacity that this Parliament has, in short, had to make the renewal that is necessary in time and form. Possibly now the renovation will be done. Although the renewal of the union of heavyweights counted with the same degree of consensus as the election of the current heavyweight syndicate – we remember that it was chosen by 117 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions–, that it does not follow that the sum of the majority of three groups simply limits the consensus that was reached at those times and we find ourselves in a situation different from that which we had at those times. I think it's worth appreciating the great consensus we got, and it would be worth continuing to work to get it and not limiting the substitution to what three groups say. And I just recognize the syndic, too, the poem he quoted from our friend Raimon. And it's true, because if we do... if we want to, if we want to, and we want to, I'm sure we'll have another country. But he also finished his poem by saying: "Send the years and we with them, / the empty years and the full years, / the good years and the sorrows. / Spend our years with them. Therefore, congratulated for the good work done and that takes good note, the Parliament, that spend the years and ours with them; will change the syndicate, but the union has to be romantic with the good work done and moving forward. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.137.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.138.0	Thank you, President. Lord syndic of heavyweights, Mr Ribó, well, it seems that, at last, his almost life-span in the institution he incarnates until today reaches its end. And the truth is that I believe that this is good news for the citizens of Catalonia, it is good news for respect for the fundamental rights of each and every citizen of Catalonia. And in any case, allow me to justify our criticism of your management. Your term of office expired three years ago, and therefore you have been on an extended term of office for three years, which makes an institution that should be..., precisely its meaning is that it is not the person who occupies it, irremovable, but quite the contrary, that there is an alternative, a succession, an alternation in office to avoid, therefore, that tendency to caesaropapism that you have implanted in the institution of the Synod of Greuges. In this respect, I find it incredible that you come to give us lessons about the treasure that it means for the citizens of Catalonia to have two languages or for the citizens of Spain as a whole to have several languages. Indeed, that is what we defend in Citizens, and that is what we have systematically denied since the successive governments of the Generalitat, of course, with their invaluable collaboration. You present as an important fact, which to you seems relevant, the fact that there are few complaints about the linguistic model in Catalonia. Listen, Mr. Syndic, is it that with the ideological climate that presides over our public debate in the political sphere and with institutions embodied by people like you, do you think that someone can be as heroic, as brave, as to claim or as to complain about or denounce that situation of exclusion from the mother tongue of most Catalans? I think there are many already, I don't know how many, you will tell me, but I think there are many already, given the climate of pointing out that there is anyone who dares to question that oppressive regime of linguistic immersion, of evil called 'linguistic immersion'. In this sense, I would like to remind, for example, the Canet family, a five-year-old child whose family suffered a real harassment by radical nationalists, driven by the nationalist parties of this chamber, normalized by you and which we still expect some complaint from you, Mr. Syndicate. You defend the rights of the citizens of Catalonia, do not defend the prebenda and privileges of the Government of the Generalitat. You should not be the defender of nationalism, as you have been all these years. You shouldn't be the advocate of the process. You should not, in short, be the defender of a political cause such as separatism. To all this, you make constant references to the decision of the Council of Europe and to the one you like so much, the report called 'Cilevics report'. I remind you that Mr Cilevics, when he came to Catalonia, met uniquely and exclusively with citizens of Catalonia nationalists, with nationalist political representatives, and with you, of course, who is an incline representative of the nationalist cause. And, in this sense, Mr Cilevics incurs deep inconsistencies in his text. At the outset, it begins by establishing in a text a parallelism, or by including in a single document, in a single report, two countries as dissimilar, as absolutely dissimilar, as Turkey and Spain. That doesn't even draw your attention to you, when it's obvious that there's no comparison possible. However, you are committed to submitting that report little less than as the fifth essence of the truth. I believe, sincerely, that you, Mr Syndicate, have emptied of prestige, have emptied of respectability, an institution, have denatured it and have made it an institution absolutely useless to the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. That is why many citizens of Catalonia do not even intend to use you to defend their rights, because you know, that citizen to whom you may have violated your rights, for example in language matters, which you are not going to defend. I keep waiting, we keep waiting for you to denounce the political violence that has been exercised against constitutionalist entities and parties. We have a report of the year 20 and another of the year 21 in which precisely the number of attacks – up to 351 – that have suffered constitutionalist entities by groups of radical separatists is denounced from the Observatory of Political Violence. And that does not deserve you the slightest comment, which certainly, Mr Ribó, does not cease to result in the observation or direct correlation of your involvement with the nationalist, separatist framework, which President Catalonia. So don't be surprised or some of us won't be surprised when we saw this image. [[The orator shows the camera a photograph.]] I am not in favour of displaying images in Parliament, but this image will be familiar to you. It's your image, your image, taking a plane, a private jet, with..., a plane, no, an airplane, a private jet, with a conspicuous representative of the three-per-cent plot. This is the image that the syndic of pelages leaves for many citizens of Catalonia, the image of a person at the service of nationalist power, at the service of the nationalist cause and which, moreover, is dedicated to chalanar with the plot of three_per_cent, the most rancid and caspian corruption that has existed in Catalonia and, probably, throughout Spain in the last forty years of democracy. Therefore, the truth is that you have a titanic task, your successor, at the head of the heavyweight union, has a truly very complicated task to try to reverse the deleterious damage that you have done to the institution, probably irreparable. The truth is that the institution of the Greuges Syndic should be an institution, as I said before, to defend individual rights, fundamental rights, in the face of excesses of power, in the face of excesses of the public administration. And you – I insist on what I was saying – have denatured and emptied of content, in an absolute and irreversible way, an institution that should be respected by all the citizens of Catalonia. Certainly, Mr Ribó, I do not think there is any reason for you to be pleased with your own management during these eighteen years at the head of the union. You have been one more link to the chain that separatism has created around Catalan institutions. And, therefore, the only thing that you have done, basically, has been to whitewash and credit each and every movement of separatism against the individual rights of the citizens of Catalonia, which you had an obligation to have defended during these years, but which, of course, calling itself a walker, has done exactly what a defender of the citizens would never do, which is to put himself on the side of oppressive power and power that violates and violates fundamental rights. Thank you, Mr. Syndic; thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.139.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.140.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. To greet, of course, also the syndic, Mr Ribó, and also the team that accompanies him, and in this case the councillor Argimon, who accompanies us also this afternoon. Well, I these days, while I was reading and working on this report, I remembered something I said a couple of years ago in this very rostrum. I ventured to believe that Mr Ribó would leave his post, and the 2020 report would already be signed by another trustee. It's obvious I've sinned naively. And you have not only signed the 2020 one, but you have also signed the 2021 one, which we are discussing here today. I think I can, at last, think that it will be the last time you come to report on a report, because apparently a new appointment is going to take place, but I also tell you that, despite that appointment being blocked, nothing prevented you from leaving your post. But, of course, I imagine that your work as a processist at the head of the heavyweight union is not easy to release, because, of course, without your invaluable help, how were the different nationalist governments going to justify their abuses? Because you, of course, do not let down – do not let down. And this report today is another proof of that. You have a capacity to make partisan value judgments and to sit chair, besides without any evidence, without any evidence, that to me, I have to tell you, I confess that I wonder and always do always you in favor of separatism. How curious, listen! I'm amazed and outraged, too, of course, because you charge a dollar and because your reports we pay you all. Look, you with your attitude have degraded an institution that should be at the service of the citizenry. You with your biased reports have lost any credibility that you might have, to the point that when, for example, the non-nationalist Catalans have to ask for protection, then we do not come to you and go to the defender of the people. What a pity, Mr Ribó, to have handled both an institution like this, which should protect and protect Catalans. In fact, I even wonder what we need to continue to support pro-nationalist relations with everyone's money, as if we don't have enough. You use the public media as a loudspeaker, and you as a defense attorney. And, hey, if the Government of the Generalitat wants an advisor, pay him with his money. Look, we have little time and it is impossible to get into each and every one of the issues contained in this report. Some of them, moreover, have already been dealt with in previous reports, such as, for example, the unsustainable situation on waiting lists, which if they were already bad before, because after the pandemic I do not want to imagine under what circumstances it is. You also point out, Mr Ribó, that there is a gap between the data on waiting times, between the data provided by the Generalitat and those that really explain the patients who have to wait for treatments or surgery. And you wonder if this is a point case or if it is a common thing. You would do well, Mr Ribó, to follow the parliamentary sessions, because more than once, from different groups in this Chamber, we have already complained about this situation and we have highlighted the lack of transparency in this data, which does not coincide with what patients explain to us and denounce. It also notes, for example, in its report the unsustainable situation of primary care. You say this is derived from the pandemic. It is true that the pandemic has aggravated it, but these are structural problems that we have been dragging especially since the cuts of more than ten years ago and that, however, we come here, we make proposals, but yet the situation – and you, Argimon, you know perfectly well – does not improve and, on the contrary, has worsened with the pandemic. The report also talks about the persistence of sexual harassment in different areas. Today we were aware of this new detention of this doctor attached to the Department of the Interior for that fifth complaint. They have not served the protocols, it is useless if they are not applied. The advice of feminism is of no use if they remain in mere words, and at the time of truth these movements of squadrons have become totally helpless. And the Greuges syndic would do well to investigate this matter. And I would like to refer in particular to the part of the report relating to the language skills of Catalan pupils. He acknowledged, Mr Ribó, that pupils did not have the level of competence in the foreign language required at the end of university studies. That's weird, isn't it? How strange, with this system so wonderful and successful that it is immersion, that makes Catalan children crack in the domain of languages that they do not study. How strange – how strange – Mr Ribó. I just don't understand how we don't have a queue of international observers waiting here to learn how we do it so that those kids, two_hours a week, get out with a much better level of Spanish than the La Rioja kids, who give them all. I really don't explain it to myself, honestly. Of course, you too come to evaluate the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. I was not going to pass up this opportunity to question justice once again, because it is unfortunately not the first time that it has done so. You literally say in this report – you say –: "At the length of the years the syndic has had the opportunity to pronounce on various occasions on the non-existence of a real conflict in this matter, as demonstrated by the scarce complaints to the institution and the fact that until 2021 only eight families had obtained judicial application of the linguistic quota. First, how is anyone going to complain to you if you are one more extension of the process, if you stand together for immersion, even though it goes against the pedagogical criteria set even by UNESCO? Second. It doesn't matter if it's eight families or if it's eight hundred. It is that rights are being violated, and you are supposed to be the guarantor of those rights, Mr Ribó. By the way, more than three thousand families have joined the complaint. Third. If there is no conflict, as you say here in this report, how does it explain the harassment and the wave of violence unleashed in Canet de Mar by calling for the Spanish to also be a language to carry along with the Catalan? Perhaps that has something to do with few complaints, because the most radical separatism is already in charge of trying to silence these families who dare to denounce. The report also continues by saying that Catalonia's language model ensures knowledge of the two languages, which is an internationally recognized model as a good pedagogical model of coexistence and respect. Fully valid model: I remind you that right now it is illegal, because we have a sentence and because it says so in the Constitution. Recognized internationally, by whom, Mr Ribó? What sources do you have? Who recognizes it, Puigdemont from Brussels? Is that the international recognition that is coming to you? Look, the European Parliament itself has taken steps to defend the rights of Spanish speakers, who are being discriminated against. Thirty years of violation of these rights. In the same vein, the European Parliament has warned them that linguistic immersion undermines the rights of students with disabilities and problems in the development of language. You also say that it is shown that the system is not harmful to non-Catalan speaking pupils of origin and that the differences in the results of knowledge between Spanish speaking pupils in Catalan and their peers in Spanish are not significant. And I'll ask you again what sources you have, Mr. Ribó. What sources do you have? How do you measure these variables? Because you don't explain it to us in this report. Look, I'm going to quote three studies: Analysis of the results PISA 2015 in Catalonia, of Catalan Civic Co-existence ; Effects of linguistic immersion on Spanish speaking students in Catalonia, of the European Foundation Society and Education, and Equity, excellence and educational efficiency in Catalonia. A comparative analysis of Jaume Bofill, which is not very suspicious of Spanishism. They all conclude that, because of the immersion, the Spanish-speaking students produce worse results in all socio-economic strata. And, in addition, there are also studies that show that immersion also harms students of foreign origin, as explained by the professor of the UAB Sílvia Carrasco. Look, in short, Mr Ribó – and with this I finish, Madam President – not only is this a report on the part, it is a report that has zero rigour. And, already as a truce, I wonder what an institution like yours does by criticizing judgments and violating rights, which is just the opposite that it should do. You, your legacy as a syndic, therefore, is that of being the less independent syndic of history, less objective and less representative of Catalan society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.141.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Quim Jubert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.142.0	President, councillor, Benvolgut syndic, deputies and deputies. The role of the syndic is not to please the public powers, but to be demanding in the right and in the good administration, seeing what they have least means to make themselves felt. And sometimes that's understood as a cork. "Syndic of hardship is the name that responds to our historical tradition, but as a lawyer I recognize more in the appeal of "ombudsman or defender of the people, because he describes more accurately the function, or, as the subtitle of his report says, "defender of the people. These extended years of the syndic Ribó, as it could not otherwise be, have dyed lights and shadows, since, although they have not been free of controversy, the balance is not very positive, as they have recognized the conjunction of their colleagues to appoint him for more than two years to the governing council of the European Chapter of the International Ombudsman Institute, from which he has been president since 2016 until this later year, to the band of other two previous mandates, and he is uninterruptedly a member of his global board of directors since 2009. Thus, the report that today presents us, and that is expected to be the latest in a ple, the whole of the activity due to end for the Synod of Greuges, highlighting in each area the most significant actions in a year in which the continuity of the pandemic of the covid-19, with various onades, has had important effects, not only in the system of salvation, but also in a wide range of rights and freedoms and in the economic activity of the country. This comprehensive report is complemented by other free reports, such as the children's rights or recommendations formulated as the Català Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture or other monographic reports, and the details of the actions and recommendations due to the end of the year. Entering the concrete data, and the more than thirteen thousand rebuttal complaints, it should be noted that the sixty-set_per_cent, want seven_mil, have been processed, and in the ninety-eight_per_cent of the cases detected the Administration has accepted the proposed measures. Fifty per cent of the metropolitan area, Mr. Aparicio. They are remarkable figures which unequivocally demonstrate institutional respect for the work that is done by the syndic. The Government of the Generality shows a good willingness to respond to the syndic's claims and work to resolve outstanding issues. However, it cannot be obvious that infra-financing continues to be an insurmountable obstacle to give response to many of the recommendations that you are a fan. This Parliament has approved a number of resolutions immediately by the State to resolve this chronic problem that affects the services that citizens demand. The LOFCA has expired since two different legislatures, Mr Martín Blanco, or the General Council of the Judiciary, but the governments of the PSOE, those of the PP and now the most progressive of history continue without addressing it. And a few days ago we've rejected data that doesn't just show that the State doesn't complete with compromised investments, but only executes them. As the very honorable President Puigdemont said, a Catalan city rep the thirty-yes_per_cent of which he is close, and a Madrid city, 184_per_cent. And there's no right. And from this we have already been shown in detail by Canadell and his advisor this morning. Sindic, it could do more, but we need more resources. Mr. Apparicio, all this has been omitted in your intervention. Entering into the various concrete aspects of your report, even though we cannot address them all, I will hold on to some of them that I believe are relevant. The pandemic of covid-19 continues to be present on this year's report, and this is referred to repeatedly when it addresses the complaints and problems that come to the syndic. On the vaccination strategy during the pandemic, which was predetermined for coordination between the Ministry of Health and the departments of the autonomous communities, as the report acknowledges, the effort has been enormous, both to dispose of cows and to distribute them to the city council. It is true that there have been many complaints, and the healthcare administration at times has been overwhelmed, and therefore needs to improve reception and resolution of incidents. We have already mentioned that the vaccination strategy was global, but what is also true is that it allowed vaccination to especially vulnerable people, doing so by age groups and at some point overcoming the hundreds and thousands of administered days. Primary care has been intensely affected by the pandemic, which has affected the programming and care of the city that was being used to treat other diseases. In order to resolve the incidents produced during the campaign, they agreed and enabled two parallel circuits. These circuits were agreed between the CatSalut, the Institut Català de la Salut, the 061 and Salut Pública. Technology means have failed, and they have progressively rectified malfunctions. On the difficulties for the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, it is clear that it is necessary to guarantee to all women access to the service, also respecting the right to the conscientious objection of the faculty, which affects 44.6_percent of the teachers. But who can be an objector is the professional, not the institution, because the centers have a relationship with the Catalan Health Service, which is who establishes which is the basic portfolio. At the same time, motherhood cannot be a factor of discrimination in public administration, and the syndic finds that this still passes and recommends the adoption of flexible formulas to prevent pregnancy and motherhood from being an obstacle to access to a temporary public work place. Administrations must take active measures to remove obstacles that allow discriminatory conduct to be maintained in access to public work [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] by interintagge. With the pandemic, social inequalities have increased, and situations of poverty and social exclusion, and the right to access existing benefits and aids, play with the presuppositionary limitations caused by them too – I said before – for the reason that we skate. Rebuffed and justified complaints believe that it is necessary to improve information on existing services, and above all to simplify the procedure for accessing them, and possibly to set up a new protection system adapted to the needs of the most vulnerable people. I'm done. The delays and incidences in the processing of work claims that already existed before the pandemic have increased, and the syndic has rebutted numerous complaints motivated by delays in the resolution of requests. The processing is slow, and the two-month process to resolve part of the joints is never complete. In fact, the answer always refers to deficiencies in the project to interrupt the term. This is to the detriment of the right of participation and information in urban matters and, therefore, they are inescapable. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] systems to manage the city in a reasonable way. In summary, precisely with the fair denunciation of social inequalities, the difficult problems of "living" and the defence of everyone to arrange it and the rebuttal complaints in relation to social emergencies and the slowness in assigning "public life in situations that have occurred denunciations as a result of judicial proceedings... It has also rejected complaints about situations of over-occupation and under-living, which need to be answered by the Administration. It is certain that action decided by the public authorities to complete the legal duties of conservation and maintenance by the owners. And that properly denounces his report. But we also found the defense of private property lacking, which is often damaged by the slowness of justice and the mafias of the occupations. The right to a ‘living', to a ‘dignified', must be compatible with the right to property and also with the peaceful enjoyment of this in the cases of the loguers. Because in Catalonia the ‘living place' has been a mechanism of estalvi and reserve of values for many families. Well, I'm done. [[Widow's remorse.]] The past year we were referring to the fundamental rights, to their protection in the face of abuse of power, and we put in full that many public servants conceive of public office as an exercise of authority in accounts to have a public service vocation. The syndic's report refers to it enough, and we sincerely appreciate it. We have a serious problem of the neutrality of the public authorities, especially the judiciary, the prosecution and the police itself, as has been shown these days by the escandal of the escorts of Commissioner Villarejo and the "Catalangate and, in the past years, with numerous lawsuits connected to the proceedings and the repression closed. Now I'm done, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Benvolgut syndic and his team, we must congratulate them, one more year, for the work they do and for the report they have presented to us, and wishing them the good and the better for the new vital stage that will begin within a few weeks and wishing us that their arrival as syndic is preserved for whom I come to replace it. I, Mr Gallego, summarised the new syndicate candidate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.143.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.144.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, syndic... me, before we start, I think it's from... out of respect for the institutions we have, huh? , as organized, and especially I as a person, we do want to advance in making the recognition to which has been until now the syndic of heaviness, Mr. Rafael Ribó. And also convey to all his team our sincere thanks for a hard work, an important task, which is no other than that of being an organ defender of people. [[Greetings.]] And we also want to extend it, obviously, to his deputy general, Mr. Jaume Saura, and the deputy—who I also see accompanying him—in defense of infants and adolescents, the Maria Jesús Larios. To all of them and to all of their team, which is not here, but which is always doing the task, and to the company that accompanies you here to the rostrum, thanks for the work and compromise in defending people's rights. During these four years in the Commission of the Greuges Synod, as I can say – not as the president, but as the deputy – that the reports of the Greuges Synod have a very great utility for parliamentary activity. They have a utility for all Members; not only for us, but above all – above all – they are useful for the better of people's lives, who carry out their recommendations and conclusions. The legislature that encapsulates the republican leadership makes clear the importance that our public policies must have, therefore, as we have been able to approve a presumption that has an extensive social purpose. Today they can celebrate that three_of_each_four euros is destined for social investment. And, why are we talking about this? Well, because, as you also said, we observe the growing trend of expedients that have been cherished by the syndic..., correspond to the social issue. We're worried, yeah. And since it couldn't be any other way, the main objective of this government is to improve the welfare of all people in our country. We enter, therefore, into the concrete report, and begin with what continues to be a key pillar of Catalan society, and that is salvation. We fully agree with the conclusions reached in this report: to strengthen the public health system and to invest much more in salvation. We celebrate the work that has begun in this Parliament in the approach of mental salvation and addictions, not only in the monogram, but also in the study committee. And an assumption that the syndic has made years that, let's say, denounces and that we have also claimed in the later years. In the area of social rights, we note that there is still much work to be done, and we are fully aware of it. Measures have been put in place such as guaranteed citizenship income, which will continue to improve, but which have meant a boost and support for many people in the country. Still, we agree with the syndic at the time of continuing to work for clarity and complementarity of all economic performance in our country. And we remember that the coordination between the vital minimum ingredient is still pending and managed by the Generality. And in this legislature we will not give up, and so we are demonstrating, as, for example, for the first time, and under a republican co-government, we deploy the pilot plan of universal basic income, which also does not stop being a country initiative. Another big issue we're going against is the right of access to decent housing for all people. And here we have a lot of work to do, and it's an urgent repte – it's an urgent repte. Cal increase the public housing stock. It has been said in this report, and we also carry, again a year, denouncing this situation and also proposing measures. And in this last assumption, obviously, there has been a endowment for housing policies of up to 1,000_million euros. We know it's not enough, but we also share, let's say, the concern of the report. It also ends the shameful impediments of the government, which prevent us from working in this complex situation. And we denounce from here that laws are suspended like, for example, the limitation of the price of wine, which helped many people – it helped many people – but today, unfortunately, it cannot help them. We know that from the Republican Left we have a firm commitment to mobilize all the mechanisms we have available to work for this right, the right to housing, a right that we consider inviolable. We continue with the education pillar, which, as you also remember, continues with the deployment of Decree 11/2021, with the objective of continuing to fight against this school segregation, always from a preventive perspective, to make our model of education, a model just and with equal opportunity for all the children of our society. And they're not worth lying about. Just expanding the offer of public places and reservations of places of special educational needs to ensure that there is no segregation in our country. We know with contrasting data that the model of the Catalan school, the model of linguistic immersion, the gathering in Catalan language is what guarantees fairness and equal opportunities. And that's why we defend the pedagogical criteria and not the percentage imposition criteria. That's why we're dealing with the educational community and the experts, and we can't tolerate the judges saying how to teach themselves. And this is one of the reasons we've approved a law with a consent to prevent the imposition of twenty-five percent of the castle. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I understand, Madam President, that you will also be generous with me in time. [[the speaker laughs]] So I will continue my intervention. In the environmental field, we see how the report makes various complaints about the costs of the sub-administrations and also of the sub-administrations. And, in this line, the modification of the law on renewables presents a turning point to an energy model of proximity and with an equitable distribution throughout the territory. We also highlight the approach to energy poverty and the difficulty of accessing the social good. I would urge the government to reconsider this accessibility, which... as a social worker, I can assure you is very complicated that a user, a user, can access this appeal. And, finally, I would also like to make clear the organization of the different administrations for the gathering of refugees because of the war in Ukraine. And, in this sense, from my parliamentary group, we add to the recognition of the work done for the different departments of the Generality and also for the local administrations, and in particular the Department of Equality and Feminisms. Catalonia is the land of all, we never forget it. We're putting the equal right of dealings in the center. And that's why we condemn all kinds of behavior that tempt against the dignity of people. Here too are included the crossings of the flag that still have many gatherings of our country. We cannot allow it, because we do not want a country of first and second citizens, and institutions must be there to guarantee rights. To end, it is obvious that we will repeat our thanks to the syndic's pocket and wish him great uncertainty in this new stage that begins. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.145.0	After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, if the syndic wishes to do so, he can use his word. [[Pause.]] So thank you very much to the heavyweight syndicate for his exposure, to all the parliamentary groups and naturally also to the team that accompanies him here today. I would very much like to thank him for the task he has carried out at the length of these years and congratulate him and wish him all the luck in the future. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the creation of a public pharmaceutical company]] [[302-00158/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-first point of the order of the day: following the question to the Government about the creation of a public pharmaceutical company, which has submitted the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy lady Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.146.0	Thank you, President. Sorry I'm late. Well, we defended the whole past, once more, because that's not new, because we need to create a Catalan public pharmaceutical company and because it's an essential bet. And we say that it was so often from a health point of view, because we do not want to be hostages to the interests of the private pharmaceutical industry, neither in a context of health crisis nor ever; but also to be able to fight the poor pharmaceuticals and to guarantee the supply of medicines and research for the general interest, and not for the particular interest of these pharmaceutical companies. But we also say that it is essential both from this health point of view and from the point of view of national sovereignty. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, but there were currents. [[Rialles.]] Well, we, in short, say that this Catalan public pharmaceutical industry is the key to being able to refocus the pharmacological investigation, because, more importantly, it would allow us to alleviate these resources that we are going to the private pharmaceutical industry and that we then give this part of the investigation so complex, that it is the basics, and that we then have no control over the prices that end up putting a stop to developing these medicines. We say that the public pharmaceutical industry would allow us to ensure transparency in relation to the problems arising from some medicines, which would allow us to avoid economic criteria being imposed on the safety of medicines, which would allow us to improve the relationship between the real price of production and the final price – because it is scandalous, this difference – which would serve to solve the current difficult problem of shortages and which would make possible, moreover, the expropriation of patients in cases such as the one we have experienced in the healthcare crisis. What can I do to make progress on this public pharmaceutical creation? So that's what we put them in this young man. First of all, we need to know what our people need and what we are producing in order to determine the real possibilities of driving this public pharmaceutical. Next, we propose, in agreements 2 and 3, the characteristics and functions that this public pharmaceutical would have. Maybe we've sinned ambitiously for what it does to the amount of functions we've attached to it. We were willing to talk about it, but in the end, we wanted to put them all together, the functions, because for us the most important thing is to start walking to this public pharmacy. As for the rest of the agreements that we propose, they are actions that we consider to be slow and that we can already last a long time: the creation of the Catalan agency of medicines, beginning to develop in an immediate principle, if they want, therefore, those functions that enter within the minimum competitive mark that we have, but with the gaze set to develop a cocoon of legitimacy with the Spanish State. We also propose to you the creation of a public operator who intervenes in the distribution sector and which guarantees a price control, which is essential today. We propose to age so that there is pharmaceutical attention in the rural area, and so to combat depopulation as well; to focus on rationality and sustainability in the pattern and prescription of medicines, and, lastly, to prevent the interests of the pharmaceutical industry from conditioning our health personnel. We are not proposing to create from night to day a company that can end all functions. We are fully aware that it is not a simple task. We are aware that lack of production of active principles can be a limiting factor. But we're not proposing a chimera. If there is a political will, in short, it is that we choose some production lines according to the strategy that we think is the most effective to achieve no economic benefits, but social benefits in an economic viability framework and that we deploy it. That is why the first of the agreements we propose to them is so important, to determine, on the basis of these questions that we ask them, what is the best strategy both on the basis of the needs of essential medicines that our people have as well as the production capacity that we have. What brings them to our people? What's easier for us to produce? And, we insist, for the UPC the most important thing is to start walking, advising; start walking with the clear objective and stop moving forward, with those most effective strategies, towards pharmaceutical sovereignty, as one of the most important tools to guarantee the right to salvation. Because, look – and in this they will agree with me – we have clearly demonstrated the lack of scruples in the pharmaceutical industry at a time of extreme benefits, not only in its daily practice, but also in the context of a pandemic that has led to millions of deaths from the world. The salvation of the people, deputies and deputies, counselor Argimon, cannot be in the hands of the pharmaceutical mafia. On your account. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.147.0	Next, and to defend the papers presented, has, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.148.0	Thank you, President. Well, she's certainly an interesting young lady, and I want to thank the UPC for bringing this debate here, because in the little space we had to discuss the issues, I think she gave a lot of herself. We were able to prove it as much to Mrs Estrada as to Mr Juli Fernàndez, who, moreover, as to her subject, could say that she lit us up, so with her knowledge in all this. And, therefore, I think it's important to talk to us here at the Faristol. Because, certainly, when we talk about pharmaceutical industry or when we talk about pharmaceuticals, drugs, and so on, a public pharmaceutical, it's a debate that's going to go a lot further than we can do here in a youth, because it's obvious that there's a deeper debate, that it's going to go beyond it, that it's going to take me to say the purely ideological debate, because we're also getting to talk about a much more technical debate, and that, besides, it's going to allow us to run away from fears, to seek synergies and collaborations in the pharmaceutical industry, between the public and private sectors, to correct things that don't work, and that's what you need to do. And, therefore, I think it's an important issue to work on. But also without demonizing the combination of the pharmaceutical system. It is therefore already clear that our vote will be unfavorable at point 9, in which it speaks precisely, therefore, of banning the entry of the industry from the commercial perspective into the hospitals. And, therefore, here we do not agree, among other things, because it is to demonize a whole set of pharmaceutical sectors, which is formed by many professionals and which, at times, touches many areas, ranging from industry to distribution, pharmacy offices, hospital pharmacy. And also not only in the commercial sphere, which is an area where each time more is regulated, but also an important part of training, research and funding, even, of research centres. But sometimes we can't just focus on the headline, can we? In the creation of this public pharmaceutical company, only to touch and work on all and every aspect of this process. I am talking about research, R & D, control, safety, effectiveness of medicines, cost, expenditure. Therefore, we are talking about production, as well as dosages, which are returned to this young man. Let's talk about receptions, dispensation. We need to talk about blisters, single-dose, other dispensing systems. And sometimes also, for example, an important point of this young man, which is the subject of pricing. We have different international experiences on this topic of public pharmaceuticals. There are two different models: some very limited in their effects, precisely focused on very concrete areas of pharmacy, and others because they have countries that have very different economic models, which are hardly comparable to them. And what we really need to ensure is that there is a balance with what is produced and more sustainable. And, therefore, we must take advantage of all that knowledge in the world in this field and with initiatives being made by the same WHO in order to facilitate access to the medicine, to the pharmacy, of all people. Only four facts that are very relevant to me because..., that justify why some points we would vote for them favorably, as it is part of point 1, because it is certainly important to know what we have to know after knowing what we may need. And in other points of the motion... and in others, obviously, we can't give support, because, for example, to develop a new medicine is necessary between two and fifteen years of work and, at a time, between 1,000 and 2,400_million euros, assuming that the risk of this reversal has a favorable feeling of the ninety-nine_per_cent, right? So, man, it's a risk, I think, very high for a public enterprise, for example, isn't it? Or, if we consider that each year some 40 medicinal products are authorised and there are nine or fifty indications of authorised medicinal products, it would be useful to study nine thousand of them to accurately match this current production rate of the pharmaceutical industry. Or another fact: we would need to resize the investment in public research in a substantial way, and, therefore, it would be equivalent to increasing about four thousand simultaneous projects in the clinical phase in order to be able to raise ourselves, therefore, of the access that we have now to the pharmaceutical industry. It's data, I think, very uplifting, it's important data. And, therefore, it is in this line that, while thanking him for the debate and that, certainly, in five minutes it is very complicated to position yourself on a subject as deeply as this, we, of course, will support those points in which we can move forward, certainly, to improve what we can share, which is certainly better in accessing the pharmacy of all the patients and citizens of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.149.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.150.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. In the first place, Mrs Estrada, many thanks for having had the opportunity to share with you an area of my passage, which is the economy of health and medicine. And, therefore, I hope not to be very heavy; I will try to convey part of the passage that I have for it. Focusing on the title part, huh? , "the creation of a pharmaceutical company, I think many times we can sin to think – and I'm sure we'll hear it later in some intervention – that this is the fruit of Bolivarian or communist societies. And part of the way that looking for lives to focus on the offer on the pharmaceutical market can be positive; that is to say, it can be positive both for the compliment and the supply of the medicines..., does not assure it directly, because also on the markets, it is to say, we are on a European market, and many of our supplies are the fruit of parallel exports to the price differences for the same medicines in different European countries. But if we focus on issues that are not so much therapeutic innovation, but rather on forms of dispensation, or to cover the need for specific collections that do not have them solved, such a time could be a good tool. As we shared, we thought the way it was exposed didn't go so far around here. I'm sure they're good for finding, I think, ways to be able to assess whether this can be an interesting tool in our country, from the reports that, in some points, I think they're good for making. And the advance that we, in some of the points, will also give support. For what it does to the Catalan agency of the medicine, unfortunately, today these competitions of the agencies are still state and fall under the European Agency for Medicinal Products and its recognition, for example, price fixing or evaluation of all these medicines. We believe that the design of the Catalan agency of the medicine must have a structure that we may have prepared – it would be interesting, we were trying to trade. But the deployment, today, would be to make a change of plates from a general sub-direction to an agency, without a real change in its content, so that you could not exercise these competitions in the current mark. Therefore, we share the need to move forward, we share the need to design, we share the need to work on it to also have a model that may be less bureaucratic than it is in other states, but the deployment would be no different from what we have now. Allow me to pose in the unit dose portion. Being able to offer patients their medicines in a single dose, as you detail, can be a measure that allows a certain amount of a priori. But I think that its powerful part is not economic education, but that it is adherence to treatment, because some professional will have to do it for the patient and will have to explain it how it needs to be done. These professionals we are, we are the pharmacists of this country, and the pharmacists of this country have already done so; we make custom dosing systems, which, despite the fact that single-doses are not authorized today, allow us to prepare medication individually for all patients we have and increase their adherence. And here we believe that it can be a path in which, with the Health Department, we can delve into these rationalisation measures that you also put into this proposal. For the part of the activity of pharmaceutical companies from a commercial point of view, we believe that more regulation is needed; we are not in favour of prohibition, but we are in favour of regulation and complimenting the existing regulation. Because, unfortunately, still today a lot of the training our doctors get around the drugs they get for this channel. Therefore, regulation and ordering of this way. Therefore, please them the possibility of being able to debate, of being able to share visions. And we're sure to find ways to build solutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.151.0	So, after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.152.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. From our parliamentary group we certainly share a part of the fund, of the motius of this young man, don't we? We are aware and are in favour of having a thorough debate and will be about the provisioning, rational and efficient use of medicines; also about the proper pharmaceutical training because it aims to reduce the abuse of some drugs and also the abusive prescription, which we consider to have two essential components: the first, the culture that we have stalled the patients about the pharmacological use, and the second, therefore, the saturation that the health system suffers, which does not allow for attention to the optimal patient, which often ends with an abusive prescription of these medicines. We are also aware and share that we need to have a debate about the role of the pharmaceutical industry on its most negative parts, such as the complex pricing system, the lack of transparency and information, the over-recovery of benefits at the expense of prices on too many occasions; a debate with the ultimate objective, we believe that it is shared, that everyone has access to these products for the benefit of what their salvation requires. Surely, here we have many aspects to address and a wide margin of manoeuvre. But we also need to be aware and talk about the contribution, in this positive case, that the pharmaceutical industry makes. Because talking about the pharmaceutical industry, then, it's also talking about investment in research and innovation, an investment that can't be transferred to the public domain, or it can't just be transferred to the public domain, because it would require a public investment that could arise as it were. Congresswoman Laïlla was commenting on these figures, which I can't repeat, right? For this reason, our parliamentary group will vote against the points of the motion that are in line with the creation of a public pharmaceutical company and related bodies. The fact that we will vote in favour of most of the asides of item 1, because we think it is necessary to know where we are, both in production, in consumption, in prevalence and where we understand and where we produce the drugs that we consume here today, especially if we want to have this debate about what we were talking about at first. And from here, by the way, we can also take advantage of what has happened to the Catalan pharmaceutical industry, an industry that was powerful and pioneering in Catalonia. We will also vote in favour of points requiring pharmaceutical attention that are accessible to everyone and for the prescription of more economical medicines, whenever it is possible, therefore, to guarantee the safety and effectiveness of these medicines. Because, as you see, we do have this margin of manoeuvre in the public pharmaceutical service. On item 8, our group will abstain in the vote, although it does seem good, effective and necessary to make a bet for the single-dose system in order to avoid embezzlement and make an efficient use of resources. But we also believe that, before other administrations, what should be asked of the government is that it does its job and that it is satisfied with what the pharmaceutical order plan says, that it is a year ago that is already part of its government plan and that we are still waiting. And, last but not least, at the end of the vote we will also vote against it, against banning commercial activity, because our bet, therefore, is more in a line of regular, regular commercial activity. Mrs Estrada, this, according to our point of view, is once again a young woman more eager to wish and to commit herself to a model of country which, moreover, we do not share – which, if we approve, is more than, we know, that it will not complement – not a young woman who touches a few on the ground and who has committed the Government to deal rigorously with the problem of the pharmaceutical industry in Catalonia, the culture of overmedication, which we have so much internalized, and the problem of the poor, that in the case we are dealing with pharmaceuticals, which affect people in situations of vulnerability in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.153.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs María Elisa García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.154.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor... state interventionism, that is the indispensable rubric in each of your proposals, with dyes reminiscent of rancid and cruel communism. Today's the turn of the pharmaceutical company. You are asking for a Catalan public pharmacy, following the steps of the most chavista Venezuela – yes, Mr Fernàndez, of the most chavista Venezuela – which, for example, in 2012, launched a state pharmacy, Farmapatria. Only in four years, four years later, in 2016, the whole world organized authentic beats to collect basic medicines, such as amoxicillin, to supply Venezuelans, as in Cuba and the former Soviet Union. What you propose here is not only economically unworkable, but also counterproductive for the development of new medicines. Who do you think is going to invest in research and development if it isn't the big pharmaceuticals? The Generalitat of Catalonia? The Generalitat de Catalunya, in its budgets of 2022, will invest in research 481,000_euros. Fixed: Pfizer invested 13,800_million_euros last year; Roche, 12,829_million_euros; Bayer, 7,200_million_euros, etc.. Come on, come on, But it is also that a Catalan public pharmacy cannot function efficiently in the optimal sense of Pareto. That is to say, because there is no free market governing prices, there is no way of achieving a stable market. It is not possible to benefit from something without harming something else; you cannot state resources without harming businesses and, as a result, the general population, workers and users of those drugs. The truth is that this proposal is oriented towards another autonomous structure rather than politicizing, another entity where to put your hands and fill your pockets at the expense of the most basic needs of citizens: their health. They seek to discourage private enterprise from nullifying competitiveness, as what really scares them is the culture of work and effort. They promote ideological spending, such as this, without social return, the Catalonia of poverty and the lack of opportunities; they deter citizens from seeking prosperity, and they deceive them by making them believe that the Government will provide. What you propose destroys the freedom that we all are supposed to exercise freely, which allows us to create any kind of business as a method of generating wealth, even if it is a pharmaceutical, eliminating any kind of initiative that reports personal and social benefit. State interventionism, the seed of the economic weed of any country, always sown and watered by communists and socialists, which aims to plunge the people into the most absolute poverty and do what is dependent on the State, while their ideologists swim in abundance and rejoice in the misery they have created. In short, another clear attempt to destroy the personal initiative, the investment, the public-private collaboration that Catalonia so much needs by having institutions and weak rulers; another attempt to attack the work and the effort, to cut freedoms and social indoctrination oriented towards its ideology of dependence on the State, with the consequent servility. Look, 'universal' does not mean 'public' and 'public' does not mean 'free'. Stop lying to the Catalans and generate false expectations. You represent the worst policies of the worst regimes. And here you won't be able to implement your poverty project and rationing cards. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.155.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the words of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.156.0	Well, thank you, President. It's complicated to talk now – a little more and defend our eugenics – but we'll try. I think the young lady raises interesting debates. Go ahead and we'll give support to the young man. There are some elements that we want to place that for us they are also uplifting and that have not been located. A key element that we also live in our societies is poor pharmaceuticals. We also met a few months ago with the pharmaceutical bank and placed the difficulties that a large part of the citizens have in accessing their treatments, so that they can't be paid. In fact, it found that around 3.5_percent of the population of the Spanish state's conjunction suffered poor pharmaceuticals. So I think it's also one of the elements that we should consider when dealing with these debates, right? And a second element, about the need for a public in the pharmaceutical sector, I also think you have to see what happened with the pandemic and, for example, with the cows. I want to place some elements, because I was talking now too, right? , on relevancy – and it is impossible to deny – that the private sector has, but we all know that in the development of the cows, for example, of the covid, all private initiates have counted on public resources. And without these public resources that have been so active in basic research, but also in applied research, the cows that we have had with the cove could not arrive so quickly and also at the conjunction of the population, on the part of the population on a global scale – then I will also talk about it, right? And the other thing about public resource spending, too, because it's a lot of talk, isn't it? , of the investments that the private sector is obviously making, and I will not be denying the import that the pharmaceutical industry has, but we are also talking about the benefits. I would say that it seems to me that there are five large pharmaceutical groups that have put into the cowshed of the cove; its benefit has been EUR 44,000_million, that is to say, that practically would be the equivalent or more, at all, than the presumption of the Generality. In fact, between 2019 and 2021 the benefits of pharmaceutical companies increased by €16,000_million. Therefore, I believe that it is also an element that, when we discuss the need for public intervention in the field of investigation and also, obviously, in the pharmaceutical field, we also need to situate, because, in the end also..., and I enter in the third element, the situation of the patent, which is what has caused, for example, also in the management of a pandemic like that of the covid that we have not been able to address as we should have addressed it and that is probably what has been going on with new issues and new variants. Because, also, the fruit of these patents, many countries that do not have the capacity or have a national health system that can cope with the price that they fix these pharmaceutical companies, that I remember, despite having received public resources, we have the situation in many countries that still do not have practically controlled the pandemic of the covid or that have degrees of vaccination that are much lower than we have, for example, in Catalonia. Therefore, I believe that this is an element that we must also place. And then you also have to look at the pharmaceutical expense. One of the main, we say, spending fronts that the Health Advisor has in the press and that, moreover, is probably what limits us in these debates that we always have on the need to strengthen other camps in the health press is pharmaceutical spending. And, therefore, here too, despite the fact that they are companies that know that they have, say, a guaranteed expenditure on the part of national health systems... but that, obviously, it accounts for an important part of the expenditure, right? Then, the young man also places another element that is important to us, that is accessibility. For example, he's talking, right? , of the difficulties that many municipalities have left Catalonia in order to be able to access, for example, the pharmacies, not only from the whole of the territory, is also passing through us, but also to the metropolitan area, because many times the times the times of the pharmacies are directly linked to having a night emergency in the municipality. And this makes many times, for example, the comings and comings of Montcada, who do not have night emergencies, have to move not only to be able to go to night emergencies in Barcelona, but also to be able to go to the pharmacy, in this case, to Sant Andreu, despite the fact that there is no direct public transport. And then there are also interesting debates that I think are of the fundamentals, as well as the theme of the systems of unity, that I think are also, in the end, relevant if we want to reduce this expense. And I end up with one element: for me it is key to intervene in this camp; I think it has to be regulated. He was talking, too, wasn't he? , from commercial activity to primary care centres. I was lucky enough to study... everyone we've studied related to the world of biology, pharmacy, knows perfectly well how the campaigns work or, in this case, also the interventions made by the marketing departments of large pharmaceutical companies in primary care systems. And they have nothing to do with – they have nothing to do with – efficient systems, but basically they have basically classified the meths according to whether or not they understand them there and why they buy their medicines there. And we all know that. And I think it's something that we would do well to improve regulation, that it already exists, but I think it still has black holes where a good part of our spending on the national health system is getting away with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.157.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.158.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor... Thank you, yes, it is true, as at least having a debate on pharmacy, that it is not a topic that is very often brought to this Parliament; at least I have seen in some other legislatures, so it has not been a very common debate in this Parliament. And he wanted, therefore, to confront a little the reason that brings us the CUP and start saying that for us what they basically propose, that it is the creation of a public enterprise, with the measure and, so to speak, with the objectives that are planted is impossible. And I could start here, because it's inviable, to start with, economically. And with that we could be done. They can't afford it. I can't pay the Government of Catalonia and, in fact, I couldn't pay the Government of Spain either. Next, we can't do it this way or any way. Then there is, say, the discourse about whether or not it is appropriate or not to introduce some principles, in this case, public in the world of pharmaceuticals. It's not viable for us, but it's not recommendable, at least as you put it. I believe that you have not just solved the issue or at least assumed it..., one of the subjects you raise, as are the priests; nor does it solve the problem of the food shortages that you, in some way, have exposed us here that they suffered during the pandemic. It is true that it happened and happened, but it is also true that in many cases we did not know how to confront the situation in which we found ourselves at that time. Therefore, a public enterprise could not end this situation either. For us, besides, it's only possible for a company of this type to set us up..., and here we've been talking about..., it's true that we've been talking about the public pharmaceutical model of the world..., the communist space in the world, but there are other examples, and it's true. We take the Swedish example. But what does Sweden do? And that's where we talked about it, too. I believe that this is an environment that could be explored for us, since what does or, in this case, is devoted to Sweden basically is to work on specific and highly customized treatments. And they have specialized precisely in this and do not compete with the private sphere, but it is basically public-private collaboration, which, in this case, is for us a model that could also be translated, as has been done many times and we have defended many times, in research, in development and innovation in other areas. Therefore, the public pharmaceutical business model is only viable if it is in the way it is developing or has developed in Sweden. About your young man, at the first point, we talk about knowing the situation in which the world finds itself and the accessibility to medicines, the evolution of the production of medicines in Catalonia, all that is knowing the reality of Catalonia, so we would vote yes. Besides, let's say, we think that... well, that it goes into other areas that are inviable for us to vote otherwise. Yes, it has been a subject that is also important for us and that we may be able to deepen it much further. There has been talk in this plethora of access to financial services, and here, in some way, you speak of access to pharmaceutical services to the territory. That's what we agree with. Possibly we could talk about how we can do it because these pharmaceuticals are in the rural world, where there are so many places right now, so they're not accessible, right? And at this point we have no problem voting for it. What they have finally said – and this is where we see that their model of public enterprise, therefore, is not ours – banning the activity of pharmaceutical companies' businesses at health centres, is to say, banning competition with the private world, for us is totally unworkable. In the end, I think that it solved many times many of the problems that we have and that there is regulation, a better regulation; in the end, it is the policies that I believe are lifelong liberal, but well implemented: a good policy of regulation, a public-private collaboration and in some cases also forms of innovation in access to pharmaceutical services, which in these cases I believe we do not have or do not have well worked. Thank you, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.159.0	And finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.160.0	Thank you, President. We are going to vote against all the points of the motion, because directly there is no place to take it. I was already surprised that it would take you so long to submit a motion to sink one of the few vibrant and dynamic sectors left in Catalonia, as is the pharmacist. In that it must be recognized that you are of Soviet determination and discipline – never better said. And they don't forgive. As they learn that someone is doing well and earns a little money, they go after him mercilessly. Because of all it is known that here the only ones who never do anything for money are you; you are a mixture of Snow White and Cinderella: pure, crystal clear and virginal. A pepper, which we all know here. Their childish prejudices would be heartwarming if it were not for the damage they do to the Catalan economy. You refer to the Catalan pharmaceutical sector as if you were in one of those Hollywood movies of big conspiracies, etc. They have dared to call the whole Catalan pharmaceutical sector the pharmaceutical mafia, and they have become so wide. And, best of all, with the complicit silence of all of you – here no one has said anything. Moreover, they were thanked: "Thanks to the CUP for bringing this debate. They have called ‘mafia a sector of Catalan industry, and nobody says anything. We are getting used to things in Catalonia that are incompatible with a minimum political vocation, but no one has dared to hurt them at least to call them mafia. I, honestly, am puzzled that these things can happen. Of course, we then complain that companies are leaving; of course, they are being called ‘Mafia...', because you don't give them much reason to stay. The Catalan pharmaceutical sector is no mafia: they lead R & D+i throughout Spain, generate stable and quality jobs, contribute to the wealth and health of all – yes, to the health of all. And, if you have to change some law – that through the experience of the pandemic there have been situations that could have been better managed – of course it will change. But you can't call everyone mafia here with the impunity with which you do it. So, so, what do you want me to tell them? For something that works in Catalonia, leave them alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.161.0	I, finally, to position himself on the exams, has the word the deputy Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.162.0	Well, then I'll try to focus only on the exams and not answer all the interventions, which I would give for a lot and would be quite fun. Why have we rejected the papers that have been presented to us... or some, most of the papers that have been submitted to us by Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left? So, look, the first question in relation to the report... we have agreed to extend the term, yes, but do not delete those points that were essential for us to know the situation we have right now and, therefore, to be able to determine, on the basis of objective data, whether it is really viable or not viable to create this public pharmaceutical company and, above all, where we should guide it. The second one's on the line. Mirin, they proposed to change us to design: it is that the Catalan agency of the medicine is already designed. At the beginning of 2017, the preliminary memorandum of the preliminary draft law of the Catalan agency of medicines and health products was approved. At that moment, Toni Comín... And here's an incis, a small incis of complete discrepancy with the healthcare management with Toni Comín. A very strong embrace from here to him and to all of our political exiles, which deserve all our respect, along with unfortunate comments [[applause]] That we've heard these days. Well, so the 2017 Toni Comín already explained that it was about the state structure that, although it was born in the current jurisdictional framework, it did so with the will, in the future, to assume the unification of the entire cycle of the medicine. So they couldn't ask us to do something that was already done. And as for Emena 4, so, yes, outside of the hospitals commercials, because we don't just want them to continue to offer gifts for their pocket, but we don't want their influence in the formation of professionals. For the same reason we would not put tobacco industry traders to take courses on smoking peril. We consider that the best strategy to ensure viability [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of a pharmaceutical company – I finish, president – public Catalan is to focus it on the production of those medicines that present supplies to our hospitals, and let's honestly think about it. But we can talk about it. The question is that they do not place the debate in a technical plan, because this is not where we have to have this debate, but in the political plan: do they want or do they not want to protect the population from the urps of pharmaceutical interests? A mafia pharmaceutical industry that has achieved no 40,000, 65,000_million euros in benefits thanks to cows that have created with public finance – mafia practices, of course. Do they want or do they not want to move forward with the construction of a free country, will it arise, independent, that it gives response to the people's needs? Or do they prefer that we continue as we are now, making good minutes with both the state and humiliation, oppressing us and espousing us as with the great capital, which condemns the people to misery? That's the question, after all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-09-3202.163.0	Well, then, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for defence this late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the first year of government (continuation)]] [[302-00156/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the first year of government. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point received 55 votes in favour, 62 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting 2nd and 2nd points now. The vote begins. These points received 64 votes in favour and 62 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 122 votes in favour and 4 votes against. We vote for point 2.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 126 votes in favour. We're voting point two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 100 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 3 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 2.f. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 39 votes in favour and 87 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the university system (continuation)]] [[302-00157/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the state of the university system. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 13 votes in favour, 109 votes against and 4 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 10 votes in favour, 109 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. This point was also approved with 14 votes in favour, 109 against and 3 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points have also not been approved with 18 votes in favour and 108 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the creation of a public pharmaceutical company (continuation)]] [[302-00158/13]] And finally, we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the creation of a public pharmaceutical company. We start voting points 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 6 and 7. The vote begins. These points were approved with 113 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point one now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 51 votes in favour and 75 votes against. We're voting now on point 1.g, points 2, 3, 4 and 9. The vote begins. These points were not approved with 16 votes in favour and 110 votes against. We're voting now at 1.h. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 16 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 31 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 16 votes in favour and 110 votes against. And finally, we're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved with 82 votes in favour, 13 against and 31 abstentions. Thank you all very much, and the session is up.
