ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.1.0	Good morning. [[Motion following the question to the Government about the difficulties with which the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert finds itself to do its job abroad]] [[302-00093/13]] [[Let's resume the session with the twenty-four on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the difficulties with which the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert finds itself to do their job abroad. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word, to make the presentation, the MP Aurora Madaula.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.2.0	Well, good morning, thank you. Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, public, staff of the chamber, very good morning. Today, from the Parliament, we are defending this young man in defence of external action before the interferences and attacks of the Spanish State; yes, attacks on a democratic government's competence, full competence, regulated by the Catalonian State of Autonomy, but, inexplicably, you are attacked by the interference of the Spanish governments, pursuing external action in a judicial or criminal way, using up and all techniques that would assemble more to the techniques used by the mafia than to the democratic state. [[Widow's remorse.]] In fact, The Economist's index today already says that Spanish democracy has fallen from full democracy to defective democracy. And it's been a long time since we told them that Spain is not a full democracy, it's a defective democracy. And the facts and the indexes prove it. [[Some applause.]] And it's that Catalan foreign action is a right, a right and a government mandate, and a legal mandate. And this practice, the external action, goes from the moon: it is already for the previous exiles that they carried..., from the Franco dictatorship, the role of exile, the maintenance of the survival of the Catalan institutions during the Franco regime, with the Generality, the Government of the Generality to exile; also with the creation of the National Council of Catalonia in 1939 in Paris, or already with the most recent exile, from the events of October 1, 2017, with exile around the Council for the Republic, to which I will refer later. For this reason we want to defend three points, mainly. We recognize the strength and courage of the Councillor, the Councillor, the Department, before the continued repression and threats of the Spanish State to continue representing the interests of Catalans abroad, through the reinforced Diplomat, or also through the delegations of the Government of the Generality abroad, which no feeling can hold. We also condemn the political persecution, the political persecution developed by the Court of Auditors, which is not a court and more than accounts of tales, but tales that do not give any thanks; tales that persecute others to make political; people of civil society, not elected, that persecute them with many millions that have as their object the gain, the personal destruction of the lives of these people; with many millionaires to make their work, all promote a state of por, a state of persecution; the creation of a state of mind that facilitates the worst censorship, self-censorship, to work in the Department of Foreign Affairs. Why are they against external action? The answer is very simple: because external action, not only the action of the Government, but also that of the extensive network of organizations of the civil society of all kinds that practice it, this external action, with full freedom of the world..., this annoying external action. It bothers those who do not like that Catalonia has a own voice, a voice independent of the homogenizing speech that emanates from those who still enjoy the naphthaline of the three-thousand years of history, of the one, large and free. For this reason we recognize the foreign action developed for civil society, which works international cooperation and education for development – as Lafede does, as does the NGO Coordinator of Girona or Lleida – those who work for the defense of Catalan language abroad before courts every time more Catalanophobs, or the international complaint of the violation of civil and political rights that make entities like the Assembly. And because we believe that there are no first-rate rights or second-rate rights, because we believe that rights cannot be dissociated, we also recognize the defence of political rights, democratic rights – such as the right to self-determination – from the Council for the Republic, in defense..., in the international arena, outside the repressive peaks of the Spanish State. The Council for the Republic – and, in concrete terms, its external action plan – is at this time the leading instrument for the international defence of the case of Catalans before European institutions, before international institutions, before public opinion and global communication media. Because doing international politics is not just doing folklore – which is also – but also defending the rights of Catalans to live in a fully democratic state and not in a defective democracy, to denounce repression, to promote our persecuted language and to denounce those who do not let us vote and force us to live in exile in order to speak. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.3.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... this is an easy young man. That is to say, a young man who begins: "The foreign action of the Government of the Generality continues to be persecuted, criminalized, prosecuted and spied on by the institutions and apparatuses of the Spanish State..., pim-pam. From here, we must continue reading, to see if there is any thing that could be saved. After the honourable Member's intervention, speaking of mafia techniques by the Spanish State, speaking of all these themes that she has commented, it is difficult, despite the good will of this parliamentary group... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, don't say yes, that it is true, that it was demonstrated yesterday, this will of this parliamentary group to defend external action, but it is difficult, in the following five words, to agree on a motion. He's lowered the democracy index, actually. Served, when were they one of the most advanced democracies? Was he serving or not serving either? Did you know that most countries...? [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you know that most countries have lowered their index during the pandemic? Do you know? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, but he didn't say... [[Strong laughs.]] But he didn't say. [[Greetings.]] All countries have dropped during the pandemic. Including a country, a kingdom, Belgium – I don't know who there is, over there– [[relays]] It's a lot under Spanish democracy. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Madam President, I would urge you not to make interventions from the public, if possible. We wanted to save..., as at least we wanted to save the activity of Catalan couples, of Catalan communities organized through the International Federation..., of the IFEC, and we made a statement at this point. I hope you agree, and we will vote in favour of this point. If it is not accepted, we will vote against all the motion, because we do not agree with what it is said or in the way it is said. And, Counselor, this is not the best way to do diplomacy, to do diplomacy in the Catalonian Parliament as well. It is worth reaching agreements between parliamentary groups and finding points of finding. The Council for the Republic that you are talking about, as a reference of the external activity of the Government of Catalonia..., ma'am will advise, I pray you do not pay any attention. The Council for the Republic is an entity that does not exist, that does not have any legal support – cap. And you cannot base your external action on one that does not exist and that, moreover, wants to supplant this Parliament. Are you aware that this can't be done? I hope so. So we've done this task. I hope it's accepted. And if you don't accept it, no problem we'll vote against the joint motion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.5.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, also to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. We can always defend and defend the ability of the Government of Catalonia to do external action; the ability, the need, the right and the duty to do external action. One of the main tools – and I must have heard many times – that the Government of Catalonia has and has always had to do external action is cooperation in development, a cooperation in development that, at the time when it suffered a greater increase in resources to try to move forward, to reach this 0.7_per_cent, which was until 2010, right? , which grew exponentially..., and the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation became an actor of international cooperation in the world. The Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation sits in the framework of the harmonization of cooperation policies with Belgian cooperation, with German cooperation, with the cooperation of the European Union, with the USA..., sits with cooperation from the state and multilateral spheres to define the priorities and lines of coordination and harmonization of cooperation with the countries. The Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation supported the constituent processes of Ecuador and Bolivia, giving it support because it progressed in the recognition of the right to collect and the right to self-determination of the indigenous peoples of those countries. Imagine if with outside action you can do things to defend the right to self-determination, many. The Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation approved..., this Parliament and the Government, a board of directors that planned to increase resources to 0.7_per_cent by 2030, many years late. A plate director who has been incomplete in the premise approved by this Parliament this year, in the premise presented by the Government and the councillor of Councillor Alsina. It was almost an accompaniment, when we discussed our position in my group in the assumptions and the express negotiation they made, every time I raised my hand and said: "It is that we are not giving ourselves any help to development, "It is that we are not pushing cooperation to development... I ended up feeling almost an accompaniment, because there was no way of volunteering on the part of the Government to increase resources for the main external action tool that this Government has. Therefore, we do not believe that we should recognize the work of the Department of External Action, which we consider that the priorities we have are not the same. There is also a law of external action, approved in 2014, that already previews the creation of the Council of the Exterior Catalonia, that until the past year has not begun to move – since 2014. Therefore, willing to work with the Catalan communities abroad, not at all. It's true that since the past year a little bit has begun to articulate this council and we are increasing resources for the Catalan communities abroad. But for a long time these communities have had to work, to mobilize, to organize themselves practically without resources and, above all, with much will and participation of Catalans and Catalans who are abroad. So from now on, all the recognition to the Catalan communities abroad. Of course, also the Catalan NGOs and organisations working in development cooperation. It is true that with the Court of Auditors there has clearly been an attempt to prosecute and prosecute foreign action in Catalonia. And we have already demonstrated at the time, and we will continue to say, that we are against this intervention by a court that has no legitimacy, that it did not have it, and that what is trying is, through a partisan and instrumental institution, to pursue those who have a different ideology. And in this they will also find us defending the Foreign Affairs Council in front of the Court of Auditors' appeals. What they will not find – and they know very hard – is in the instrumentation they are trying to make of external action, in the politicization and the instrumentation for a very concrete political project, because in this, as they must understand, those that we do not share this political project, therefore, we will not agree. You with this young man who has done, instead of expanding and strengthening the support for the external action of the Government of Catalonia, is to reduce it, is to stay with less. I'm sure they'll have the support of the independent parties in this place, but no one else. Therefore, the object of the motion, if it were to defend and reinforce the external action of the Government of Catalonia..., will come out just the contrary, because those groups that we could have given them support we would not have done. Because the task of the Catalan NGO Federation, of the NGO coordinators of Lleida and Girona, of the Catalan couples, of the Platform for Language with the defense of the Catalan, with clearly partisan entities such as the ANC and with an entity or institution – I don't know how to say it – as the Council for the Republic, which is clearly an institution that forms part of a process that you must share, but we don't... And not to accept the items that were called, but to separate it... Because it is no longer suppressed ; if they do not want to suppress it and they want to put the Council for the Republic, then forward, but to separate it because we can vote for what we do believe reflects Catalonia's plurality and transversality in external action..., so they did not want to do so. For all this, instead of adding support, you will still have less support than you have had if you have agreed to agree. For all this, I'm moving forward that we won't support the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.7.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, Members of Parliament. Yesterday, to the Parliamentary Group of VOX, we also presented a motion where we asked, otherwise, to put an end to the external action of the Generality of Catalonia, which has been an external action full of corruption, invasion of competences and obscurantism. We proposed to close this council, as well as the Diplomat and all the Catalan embassies abroad. In this way, we would have been able to release the 94_million_de_euros allocated in the budget and allocate them to far more useful social causes, such as, for example, food grants for needy families or improving some of the infrastructure in our region, which is missing from us. But you have not been willing to improve the lives of Catalans, but quite the contrary: you have preferred to continue to serve the money of Catalans and to waste that money on salaries for your friends, in financing illegal activities and more international separatist propaganda. Today the Lords of Junts are presenting us with a motion in exactly the same line, isn't it? , in the line of squandering even more public money in separatist propaganda. They ask to open even more embassies abroad, with their millionaire salaries for their friends, of course – this is not lacking. They ask for more money for the Diplomat – which, by the way, has also been sanctioned and closed already in the past by the courts – and they ask to create even more separatist chiringuitos abroad. And this makes me wonder: do you ever do anything thinking about the Catalans on foot? The feeling is, really, that you only care about handling the money, pocketing everything you can and continuing to fund these activities, which we have said millions of times and it has been said millions of times that they are illegal and that they cannot be carried out. You really complain about the repression, but it just seems like all you want is for you to get arrested, you're looking forward to it. And, in the end – in the end – following this path, they will achieve it. Indeed, assimilate that Catalonia..., that the autonomous communities do not have that competence for foreign policy. These powers are vested in and exercised by the State on behalf of all Spaniards alike; you do not. Catalonia cannot participate in the international community with its own voice, as you say, as if it were an independent state. But, then, in this very motion, they ask freely to exercise the powers they have, and they add to this motion a series, therefore, of tears, of lamentations, saying that the evil Spanish State pursues them, that if the general cause against independence..., that if civil and political rights, that if exile... Separatist gentlemen, really that at this point in the film have not yet understood it? It seems to me that yes, that you have understood it, you have understood it perfectly. But, of course, one thing is for them to understand, and another is for them to want to put it into practice. Because you have realized, the separatists, that you have already run out of any weapon, without any further argument to continue to deceive the Catalans systematically. Separatism no longer has anything to offer Catalans. Separatism no longer has anything to offer to the Catalans and it has to invent all this nonsense, that if a persecution of the evil Spanish State..., for what? To keep cracking, to keep living from the story. Separatism only loses voters. And that happens because more and more Catalans have opened their eyes. And as you speak of a non-existent repression, so Catalans are more concerned about paying their bills by the end of the month. Catalans are more concerned about the growing insecurity they suffer in the humblest neighborhoods. Catalans are more concerned about the growing Islamization of Catalonia, which threatens to destroy our way of life. And that is precisely where they will find us, the Parliamentary Group of VOX: on the street, in the institutions, talking about the real problems of Catalans, proposing parliamentary initiatives aimed at improving the lives of Catalans. And, in the same way, they're going to find us standing up to them, they're going to find us denouncing each of their abuses, their corruption and their constant ideological waste. Separatists, we will, of course, vote against this motion. And we will face them in Parliament, in the courts and in the streets. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.9.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity. A New Cycle to Win, has the word, now, Deputy Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.10.0	Thank you, President. Well, what are some of the characteristic features of foreign policy in the Spanish State? The absolute dependence of the European Union, and therefore of the international capital, which has drawn close to its institutions and decisions. We would have seen European foundations in the pandemic turn into retailing and privatization into public policies. Actually, we've already started to see him in pensions. Also a total dependence on NATO and pathetic participation in its military interventions. As a result, full involvement in the deproposals caused by European and NATO foreign policy, such as Iraq, Libya, Syria or Ukraine, which are some examples. A malalt support for the attack on Venice or neoliberalism in Colombia, in line with the most reactionary forces in the U.S. Llatina and with an imperialist colonial amnesia that neither recognizes nor repairs colonialism, racism, slavery and genocide exercised for the Spanish empire in America for centuries. A connivance with capital, which flows from the world, violates human and environmental rights – an example like Repsol to Peru recently. An arms trade is growing, fostering genocidal wars – like, for example, that of Yemen. These are just a few examples of why we need and want sovereignty in order to build a Catalan international policy, an international policy based on sovereignty, solidarity and cooperation, in the defence of human and environmental rights, in the promotion of global justice, in the defence of the collective rights of peoples. A public diploma that actively promotes our right to independence and self-determination and amnesty as instruments for the democratic resolution of the conflict. Now, the generality's foreign policy is still too close and often complicit – and it still shares some aspects like this colonial amnesia – from some of the focus we have denounced to Spanish foreign policy, and it is still far from the principles and objectives we have just raised and claimed. Despite this, from the recognition to the solidary and internationalist organizations of our country, remembering and encouraging that the objectives of Catalan foreign action, such as cooperation and the promotion of sovereignty and the defence of self-determination of the people, are truly equal in importance for this external action of government and solidarity against repression, we will vote in favour of this young man. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.11.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Matías Alonso is now speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.12.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, senyores i senyors deputats... Go ahead with the position of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group regarding the future that we wish to the Department of Foreign Action and Open Government – the department of agitation and propaganda – on which this motion deals: immediate dissolution, closure of the chiringuitos abroad – except the office of the Generalitat de Catalunya for matters with the European Union – and assumption of the legal and legitimate competences of the department in question by two Directorates-General of the Department of the Presidency. It is also clear that the careful reading of this..., let us call the « motion would generate me hilarity if it were not because the laxative effect of this pamphlet prevails over the charlotade. So no, I'm not going to laugh; although, yes, we could laugh at the tone of victimism of those who have been trying to implement a dictatorship for years and who, in fact, have at their partisan service all the springs of the Catalan Autonomous Administration. So no, we're going to vote for anything that doesn't. Junts brings us to the plenary one more of his usual victimistic proclamations, that kind of victimistic proclamations that they continually make wherever they go, wherever they are. Catalan separatism is very peculiar. Each and every one of them claims to be retaliated, while being warmed up; many of the self-proclaimed «retaliated» live on public salaries paid on time by the Spanish State and which are far above what a minister and even the President of the Government of Spain himself is charging. This is the case of one of the star records of the current government, the head of the Department of Foreign Action. At first glance, she doesn't feel like she's being retaliated. I find it difficult to think that the State against which he cries out every time he has occasion is repressing it. Come on, if it's repressed, there's no doubt it's with all the expenses paid. I want to focus on the head of the department, because a few days ago, at the headquarters of the Office of the Generalitat of Catalonia for matters with the European Union, which he undoubtedly came to under the yoke of the fiercest repression that has known the times, he not only welcomed in his bosom the false exiles who live as king in Belgium, but insisted on denouncing what she, her acolytes and all the separatists who call themselves repression and judicialization of politics. Mrs Alsina, those who left for their golden Belgian retreat did so after noting that, in Spain, despite their attempted coup d'état, the rule of law, a social and democratic state of law that passes all democratic filters, remains in force. If not Spain, where is the Catalan region? Where is Catalan autonomy in the governance kennels of the European Union? A consolidated democracy that – it's a surprise! – it has defense mechanisms in front of attempts of coup d'état, even if they are of salon, like the one you gave during the months of September and October 2017. You misrepresent public resources systematically and continuously. They then complain that the Court of Auditors comes with the discounts. What is most striking is that, although they are aware of the consequences of the continued misappropriation of public revenues, they think that, trying to hang the sambenito from repression to the court action of the Court of Auditors, everything remains in nothing. You, separatists, usurp the name of Catalonia. You use Catalonia as if it were your cortijo. You intend to build a republic of cardboard stone sticking to your feet, because the systematic attack on the Spanish social and democratic state, the denoting and despotifying as you do continuously of Spain, only results in the discredit of Catalonia inside and outside of Spain. You, the Government of the Generalitat, no longer receive the Tato. Only entities and characters who have previously received the corresponding rinsing, generously squandered by you, dance the water. And they still think that their actions have no consequences, but keep in mind: the State is not just the Government. Having a government condescending with separatism, as Pedro Sánchez's PSOE is, does not free them from the rule of law action. In order to be recorded in the transcript of the session, we are drawn to the amendments of laundering that make to this proposal of the extreme right Catalan the two parties that cohabit in the Government of Spain and that aspire to distribute with Esquerra the Government of the Generalitat. What is entrepreneurship is unamendable. Oh, I forgot. Let's vote no, but not with both hands, huh? And, finally, stop muttering the name of Spain, because this behavior would be reckless all it does is harm Catalonia, the whole of Catalonia. Not to the tortuous interests of separatism, which is already a stink in Europe; it harms, and very much, the whole of Catalonia's citizenship, the only one that matters to us. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.13.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.14.0	Thank you, President. Can Catalonia take external action? Yeah. It forms part of the attributions of autonomous communities in the autonomous state. In concrete terms, in order to spread culture and boost the economy and foreign trade, not to discredit Spain, of which the autonomous Catalan community is a part, nor to finance party or even criminal activities, and not to say allegedly criminal – some still are – but other already considered criminal. What's this young man doing? Deepening the pulse of the economy and foreign trade? No, no, It wants to deepen these party and criminal activities. Therefore, we, of course, will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.15.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... had prepared the writing and may have improvised a little, after what we heard here today. But go ahead with the clear and clear assertion that Catalonia is an open country in the world. I have his citizenship, his Catalan citizenship, different and plural. It is the economy; we have a very balanced trade balance, very much, between imports and exports, and sometimes even positive. It is organised civil society, practically in all its sectoral and thematic areas, which participates in a wide range of collaboration and cooperation with world-wide partners. And there is also a need, as reflected in this society and this economy, for democratic institutions, from the municipalities, which we are dealing with with with multiple other municipalities and entities of the world, up to the networks of representation and cooperation, and, obviously, also this Parliament, and, as it cannot otherwise be, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. Because it's normal and it should be normal in a normal country. And this is a tradition of openness that has always been here in Catalonia, because we are geostratically located in a place of step, of intercanvi, and history shows us and brand us. And our recent history tells us that Europeanism has marked and is an indestriable feature of Catalanism. And Catalonia's involvement in European construction is a constant part of our political vocation as a country. We have a European tradition. And Catalanism has always aspired to a Europe that was anchoring itself, democracy and freedom. But the internationalization of Catalonia did not end much less in Europe. We are a globalised society, and as such, this world opening is intrinsic, as I say, to our economy and our day-to-day, and it is reflected also in this historic presence of Catalan couples, of the Catalan community, to countries from all continents and that have been woven into a precious web. And they are a constant contribution to the interests of our society, and they are an important action for this society, too, all these delegations and institutional offices: Action, the ICC, the Ramon Llull Institute, and, of course, the government delegations, with human teams who for years have been building trust with interlocutors in all these lands of the world. And this contributes greatly to the well-being of all the citizens of this country. And from here I invite the parliamentary groups of this Parliament to defend the interests of the citizens of the world, to defend the full powers of the Generality to carry out this external action, and to work every time to have better tools and resources to enable us, like society, to be active partners in this European project and also in these strategies of cooperation in the development of the world. In the past few years, for this reason, unfortunately, some political parties have systematically devoted themselves to undermining this reality. In fact, here, in this very Parliament, the external action of the Catalan society and its institutions has been criminalized, and these days we have all seen intolerable words of the extreme right and extreme right threatening to arrest Councilwoman Alsina, threatening all the workers and workers of the Catalan external action, even with masculist threats, for the sole purpose of exercising legitimate and legal functions. Obviously, it's hard not only this persecution, I would say, politics on the part of political groups, but, unfortunately, so has the State and the judiciary – we have said, we have repeated it with this young man. It began with Article 155 – from our completely unconstitutional point of view – and it continued with the intervention of the delegations – which closed many of them – and it continued with the Court of Auditors – which we have repeatedly said that it is a court without justice, but that it is able to sentence and ruin people's lives, without even having the right to defend itself, that it is not competent to do everything, because despite the Supreme's feeling that there is no illegal action in Catalan foreign action, they decide, as we say before, to ruin people's lives. But let us trust that, in the eyes of the world, it is very clear that there is no criminal action in independence, that independence cannot be criminalized, and that this is why the European Court of Human Rights will end up giving reason and acknowledging that there has never been any guarantee in all this judicial action against independence. And, before this offensive, what we ask and do is always stand firm in the defense of the generality's external action, which is fully legitimate, supporting the external action of all entities within the world. And, of course, we will always work – always – without rest, to achieve the Catalan Republic freely, democratically and uncomplicatedly, despite coercion and threats. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.17.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.18.0	Thank you, President. The PSC, mafias, yes, there are many examples. I can ask Councilwoman Alsina, I can ask former Councilwoman Maragall or Member Meritxell Serret, who had to live in exile, such as the Mafia practices, from boycott to acts of presentation of books, sent from the Spanish embassies to boycott, tricks to boycott acts, putting motion detectors in the car of exiles... Different acts and actions that I believe are mafias. And no, the Council for the Republic does not want to supplant this Parliament. That's what you did with the 155th exercise. [[Some applause.]] And yes, we've read The Economist's index, and well, let the downfall of democracy be global, man..., evil of all, comfort of fools, right? But it turns out that the drop in the index for Spain is not for the pandemic, it is for the non-renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary or for the lack of democratic guarantees in the trial of the independence process, which is very different. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, they read it, too. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] To the commons..., there was an increase in the forty_per_cent of the consul's co-operation budget, more than 6.5_per_cent of millions of euros, and 2_extremities, which is the highest presupposition of 2017. And for what it does to the items, which are practically the same, so we cannot accept them, because we cannot separate the rights of language, cooperation or education from civil and political rights or from the right to self-determination. That's why we can't accept them. Citizens, from the dictatorship we do not know, seek your own files. And don't say we're extreme right, when you rule with VOX in Spain. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And, well, he was going to say... about VOX, but he didn't, because at the extreme right he didn't want to do it either. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.19.0	Thank you. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half, once substantial point 29 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the harmful effects of macrograns]] [[302-00088/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-fiveth of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the harmful effects of the macrogranges, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.20.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... already in the previous inquiry they made about macrogranges we saw that there was agreement on the diagnosis. It is true that the diagnosis in some elements, such as those of contamination, therefore, is difficult to question, but we wanted to go a little further and pass from... We all agree, with how badly the situation is, in trying to force agreements in the matter of transformation solutions for the product model we have in Catalonia. We understand that the sector is going through different crises, and we did not want to talk about these crises and we wanted to make concrete proposals. The first, a product model crisis. It is clear that it is bad news, that one of two small and medium-sized farms in this country has been closed since 2008. And he didn't do it in a situation of setbacks, but he did it in a situation of expansion of the sector. Today there are 1 million more pigs in Catalonia than in 2008, but there are a thousand barns less than in 2008. And we understand that this situation is a good one because there is a situation of concentration. Each time we have more macro-exploitations at the cost of having each time fewer small ramaderes. And, therefore, we make very concrete proposals. The first is to strengthen the autonomy and independence of small producers and medium producers, who often find themselves stuck in a chain of integration between those who sub-manage breeds for engreix and escorts and consumer distributors. And, therefore, we want to strengthen the autonomy of these small and medium-sized producers. With some very concrete questions. First, to integrate environmental costs and to distribute them at the chain joint. It can't be that every box in the chain gives way to the next..., gives way to small and medium-sized producers all the responsibility to manage the environmental consequences of copper production in this country. The second question is that it is necessary to limit the monopolies of sub-administration. It also strengthens the autonomy of producers in the sub-administrations. It cannot be that you give in to the engreix and impose, in the same contract, sub-administration of pinso, sub-administration of zoosanitari material, etc. We also want to strengthen this autonomy of producers. And, obviously, the pocket to build fair prices in every box in the productive chain. The second question is a direct support plan for small and medium-sized farms. First, in one question: in access to small escorts and mobile escorts from the territory. It can't be that we're creating an ampoule collar on this issue. Second, in the public sector. The public sector, and in particular the Generality and the assemblies of this country, must incorporate the economic and proximity production into their departures from the clusters in order to support the proximity production. And the third, the recognition of the branches of quality, and, therefore, that consumers can have access to the traceability of the product, as this product has produced, in which conditions and in which productive and environmental quality its food has produced. The second crisis that we consider obvious is the economic crisis. Set_of_each_of_the country's aquifers are contaminated. A third of the territory of Catalonia is contaminated by purins. Fifty_per_cent has increased in just three years the declared surface as vulnerable to nitrates, and ammonia emissions have multiplied by two in the last six years. And before that, the solutions we propose for the primary sector are the same ones we propose for the rest of the industry. There is a plan for the conversion of our country. Ensure that ammonia emissions are duplicated, ensure that the intake of purins is duplicated. It can't be that the macrograns are still pruning in the camp, the same way that the industry is still right to pruning the residue into the natural environment. I, therefore, call treatment plans to the plant of purins. I call a total moratoria of macrogranges in Catalonia. It cannot be that in municipalities like the Canós, which is in the Segarra, one of the most contaminated areas of purins in our house, it is possible to open a macrorange of two thousand pigs when the situation is already unsustainable. We do not convert uncontaminated areas into contaminating areas. There is a total moratorium on a territorial plan for the sector. And lastly, there's a plan to restore contaminated water in our home. And two other elements that are important to us – and with this I finish, President –: to give the battle against false autonomies and false cooperatives in our country, and to include in the rural agenda the study of the impact of macro-granges on depopulation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.21.0	Then has the word, to defend the presentations, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.22.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... Before entering the concrete points of the motion that the Group of the Common Can present to us, I would like to make some general considerations. They present us with a motion following an inquiry about the macrogranges. We have read the motion carefully and several times, and we have not seen the term macrogranges in place. What we have found is that they are talking about intensive rowing, and therefore we have come to the conclusion that you want to assimilate macrograns to intensive rowing. You have adopted a term which for all has negative connotations, such as that of the macrogranges, while you know that this term does not exist legally, that it is not collected in any legal text. When does a big farm become a macro-grape? So you don't know. You don't know, they didn't put us in the room either. But, in fact, it seems like you're doing so much. What they claim is to criminalize the intensive stocking regardless of the name of the cattle, regardless of whether they are family farms; they are the same if they do the treatment of residues, if they are exemplary with animal welfare... All this is the same, given the young man. You look like an intensive web of negative models, and with this strategy you are underprivileged by the norma_per_cent or more of Catalonia's web production. And they do another thing with this young man, for us very wrong, which is to counter intensive treachery with extensive treachery, when they are not counterposed models, they are complementary. For good reason. For example, because the extensive branch has territorial limitations – it cannot give to everything: for the orography, for the climate, for the density of the population... – but also because it has production limitations – we cannot supply the entire population with the production it sees from the extensive branch. And that does not take into account the issue of the cost of meat that is produced in this way, because not everyone could afford it. Therefore, in our view, intensive and extensive treachery must be complementary models that can gather and enhance with maximum demands in all cases, both for what it does to the treatment of residues, obviously, as to the welfare of animals on farms. Each time more, the ramaders have gone professional. They complement, in general... obviously, there can always be exceptions, and in the case of exceptions it is necessary to act as hard as possible, but they complement the rules in force and are very present that since the European Union it has gone to a model of sustainable production. Therefore, they have been adapting their farms, and, obviously, they must continue on this line. Entering the young lady's points. In the first place, you talk about the law of integration contracts, a very late model and for us a model of success in Catalonia. Obviously, everything in life is better, and therefore we believe that it would be positive, so to review this model in some way to ensure that there is a fair division of responsibilities between integrated and inclusive, especially in the environment. In the second distance you talk about giving support to the small and medium-sized branching activity and the extensive branching. We agree. It is clear that the model of small farms is less competitive economically. This can lead, for example, to generational replenishment problems. But it matters: not only does the economic issue involve problems of generational replenishment; that's why we could have a debate another day, but today we don't have time. In any case, we believe that the recovery of farms with more difficulties is positive. In fact, there are already European foundations destined for this objective, there are various initiatives in this sense, but all those that can be added, therefore, seem good to us. In the third point, obviously, we agree that it is not just in the agrarian sphere, but in all areas, it is not just in the agrarian sphere. In the quarter apart we have to stop. There are two points..., there are points in which we agree and others in which we do not, especially the proposal to reduce the intensive rowing hut by 50_per_cent until 2030. It seems especially difficult to us; it is a direct attack on hundreds of farms in this country, regardless of their size, their characteristics and how they are working. And then they also propose a total moratorium on the new projects, say, of industrial ramaderia to the Catalan territory. And here we find ourselves again with a concept, therefore, indeterminate: what is the industrial storehouse? Who are their characteristics? Is this about a size theme? Ramaders lawsuits? They think they're wrong again, criminalizing the trade. And lastly, when they talk about contaminated aquifers and waters, we have presented them with a message, because you are planting a plan for the recovery of contaminated aquifers and waters where you define the costs and how the sector will pay them, through taxes, but do not say re of the actions to recover these waters. In short, we believe that, as much as there are points we can agree on and that, in fact, we will vote in favour, this young man is, as far as they're concerned, deeply disentangled. In our view, the solutions they propose do not help to solve the problems and challenges facing the agricultural and rural sectors. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.23.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Salvador Vergés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.24.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members... We will vote « yes to those points that we have been able to bring back to the common sense, but we want to put a series of alerts for when it comes time to legislate it. The first warning is that together for Catalonia we will not accept that the term indefinite and that, in fact, it is invented of « macrogranges appear in the law or in the decree law in this Parliament, because the concept « macro is already in itself pejorative and is already captivated. In fact, there are three hundred or three thousand beast heads, they can be few or they can be many depending, therefore, on the place and depending on the conditions. What we have to do is ask ourselves why large barns worry. They are concerned in terms of oligopolises, animal welfare and discards. That's it. What we need to do is to limit these concepts better and not go so far as easy, therefore, to want to limit the number of cattle heads. In fact, there are barns of a certain size that are paradigmatic, emblematic, in terms of animal welfare, pruning management, and there are also small barns where animals are raw, unnatural and with a losing female. The second warning is that we agree to empower medium-sized farms, because they are the ones who, in terms of territorial rebalancing, ensure that we do better than that, but then we have to help them. And we need to help them in terms of innovation, we need to help them in terms of the prestige of their products and fair prices. Because it's not true, this mantra that this payoff thing has to be so sacrificed and that there are no parties or breaks; it's a matter of pure profitability. If the page and the page can earn a living well, you are reassured that you will be able to put physical and human resources on your farm so that you can organize yourself properly, as any entrepreneur. And this is the third warning: like any entrepreneur, the branches and agri-food projects must be able to settle down, they must be able to cover a minimum volume in order to be viable. The rural world cannot be only the Catalonian Pessebre. So, there's a lot of entrepreneurial projects that, sadly, because they're not focused enough on volume, so we see he's gone. What we need to do is to be able to combine the two together: quality and quantity, and that's possible. And, in fact, this afternoon with the Canadell and Munell companies we were in Campdevánol, in Pirinat – which you will advise, know well – an eco-friendly company, and they are a good example in this sense of combining quality and quantity. The fourth warning: do not criminalize – and it has been said – intensive rowing, because the rowing is not extensive or intensive. You know that I myself... at home we are rowing pages and we have a bunch of cows that all year long graze in the mountain with their eyes, but these see the later months they're getting all worked up and getting angry. They're in good condition, but they're in good condition. Why? So why should they ingest more than not the cream move. If not, their steaks will be as hard as a sabbatical. It'd be like hunting meat, which is why what we do when we eat it is to make it a stew. Therefore, welcome to the reality of the store. The fifth alert: with an immense grace to the Catalan meat sector, which brings many years generating rich us, which gives 34,000 jobs direct to Catalonia, which exports more than fifty_percent of its production. A sector that, by itself, is changing and diversifying. And I want to set you the example – shooting home – of Noel. Noel is the business number u at the Garrotxa. It represents a part of our region's GDP. More than seventy-five years old, dedicated to the meat sector, to meat, basically pork, and the last five, seven years, has diversified, and successfully, to fruit juice, to vegetable creams, to vegetable protein, to sushi, to pizzas. So let's help with this transformation. And sisena and last warning, a final reflection. This interventionism that we allow the pagery, the branching sector, that everyone dares, because we do not want excessive concentrations, why are we not brave and apply it also to the value industry added? That it is not possible to concentrate only around the great cities, but that it is obligatory to distribute this product of value added throughout the country, because the rural world cannot be just pages and tourism. And finally, to say that we will vote that no to those points of the motion that either criminalize the sector or pretend to punish it. Therefore, as always, first of all, dice, science, climb the territory a lot, listen a lot to experts and the sector, and, from here, then yes, debate and act. No to your populism of Minister Garzón, no to the populism of the seditious of Llorca. Together for Catalonia we are of course. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.25.0	I, finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word Mrs Alba Camps, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. We are talking again about a way of hearing the economy in a concrete sector, yes, the branch, but within a cross-sectoral and multisectoral economic model. We have always defended and defended the same in this faristol: we want a sustainable economy serving the people and the country. We want an economy that returns to the hands of the citizenry; responsible consumption as much public as city and, consequently, all elements to enable it; equal opportunities of consumers; purchase of proximity and also decent work. This is the economic model that we will always defend, in all spheres and in all sectors, and, therefore, also in the primary sector. And today we find ourselves in front of a young man who talks about macrogranges, a concept of use very much is, but without clear definition. Close to all of us is the definition of what macrogranges are. We cannot and cannot avoid this much-needed debate. The inhibition that some want is not in any case a good political strategy. Putting things on the table is the first step to analyze and describe the reality, and, wherever you go, transform it. Debate and dialogue will move us forward to the continuous improvement of the sector and to our models. I am convinced that setting and agreeing on concepts and holding an open debate will also enable greater protection of the branching sector and the need to recognise the good work that is being done in an enlarged sector, a primary sector that is first interested in ending all the stigmas that I have sometimes. That's why we define a model. But it is also important to warn about the bust of simplisms that end up stigmatizing territories and sentient sectors, simplisms that end up stigmatizing workers and rowers. The store is good whenever it meets ethical and environmental criteria. The branch is good whenever it is adapted and contextualized to the territory. No simplifications are often the result of deep ignorance. No simplifications are often the result of a central urban perspective. We agree with many of the points you have commented on. Effectively, we can always support small and medium-sized branching activity and help create new proximity distribution channels. We need to strengthen a strategic plan of extensive storage, to promote public purchase of eco-friendly products, to recognize quality secrets and we need to avoid any bad work practice, obviously – this is already being done. We need to push the water recovery plans. In short, totally in favour of the majority of which this young man raised, which in good part we have been able to deal with. But we also want to say that the changes we consider necessary are already occurring, and are produced with the conviction of the administrations and also from the sector. There's a lot of effort on all sides, and that's a good thing, and it's also a good thing to put in value. Today, for example, we can guarantee the compliment of European legislation. And we're still creating instruments that help us to accompany this change, such as, for example, the branch discharge decree or the new branch ordinance decree, which is exactly the same as the items we've incorporated. Summarizing, in one sentence, the land for which he works, and worked with rights, justice and opportunities. It is good to show the risks and analyze problems, it is good to place the danger that involves the concentration of the whole market in few hands. In fact, this is about justice, this is about territorial balance, this is about sustainability, about caring for people and about protecting the environment. One has to say: in many rural areas the treasuries are a key economic piece and have an unquestionable social function, it is an indispensable element to face the challenges of social and labour needs. And the rural agenda has diagnosed it, and it will act with firm compromise in all the measures that have taken place in this area. As in Bergedana, a region with both intensive and extensive presence, an area which, moreover, is considered as a vulnerable area for the decree, soc fully aware of the difficulty of the repte, but also soc fully aware of the opportunity of change and better that we have in front. I'm done. We're moving on to folds, administration and sector, with a more respectful model change with the environment and people who generate quality jobs and opportunities. All this, in the right, recognize the effort and predisposition, too, of the sector. We have to walk listening to all the territory and all the realities of the country. In this sense, and working like that, there always are. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.27.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.28.0	Good morning, President. Deputies... today the communists bring us a motion against the macro-granches in Catalonia. It is clear that they come out to the rescue of their pathetic companion Garzón, that minister who goes around the world tainting the prestige of our farmers and farmers. We already know that you want us all to eat quinoa. And if you have to eat meat, let it only come from extensive livestock, as if all Catalans had their payroll. Do you not realize that most people can eat meat precisely because of intensive livestock farming? Do you not realize that with your attacks on the macro-farms you are going to harm the most popular classes? Do you not realize that thousands of jobs are at risk? Of course we have to try to ensure that livestock is developed according to your best practices, but what you are doing is criminalising an entire sector. They are playing with the future of many businesses and the prosperity of many people in Catalonia who live precisely because of this. [[Some applause.]] His proposals to help the so-called "empty Catalonia" are pure blah, blah, blah and blah. I believe that, instead of being the empty Catalonia, it is the vacillated Catalonia, vacillated by the communists, vacillated by the separatists and vacillated by the PSC. [[Some applause.]] Their excessive defense of the globalist interests of the 2030 agenda is making them lose the sense of reality. Talk to our farmers, our farmers, not just animal lobbies, which only generate misery and confrontation. From VOX we ask the industry to really commit itself to rural areas. We are light years away from their interventionist and hysterical policies. Communists, the proposals of your motion come either from the ignorance of the livestock model of our region or from political irresponsibility. It doesn't matter which one of them is; the only thing they do is hurt and ruin our farmers. They help our primary sector, they don't sew it on taxes anymore. They contribute to family continuity on farms and do not create any more problems for them. Take measures to preserve our nature and stop imposing extreme ecological objectives, which drive our farmers out of the sector. Stop intervening in the economy and in the activities of thousands of companies, which you know nothing about. In other words, VOX will not support any of this motion, which only seeks to ban, limit, extort, condition and crush the people who get up and feed us. [[Widow's remorse.]] Gentlemen, sink everything you touch. Don't bother, we already know each other, they're always the same. [[Widow's remorse.]] For the others, lettuce, and for you, chopstick. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] And since I've noticed you guys so nervous since yesterday, I'm going to take that opportunity to comment on you, right? , that yesterday every time I went down to talk to a partner of mine, I noticed everyone very nervous. Well, I'll tell you what: don't be nervous. Nervousness only makes you say nonsense. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] For example, like those said by Mr Cuevillas or the very President Aragonès. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Really, don't be nervous, don't be afraid. We've been here almost a year, and as you can see, we don't eat anyone. We have come to put an end to your totalitarian project, the crime, the waste and the ruin to which we are being subjected. And be assured that, sooner than later, we will recover Catalonia for the great national project that is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.29.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.30.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, say that today I will make this defense of this young man because, as you know, so, again, the Spanish injustice has won, mixing its bodies, the one that does not win by the ballot box, and, as you know, in Pau Juvilla today no longer accompanies us. As much as the people put it here, the State has again withdrawn what the people have decided. [[Some applause.]] And he knows me hard, because he knows a lot more about Pau than I do, but I have a good advisor and we still have him working together. Well, this young man..., to say that we will support him in his totality, even in the issues that have been settled with the different parliamentary groups. We understand, therefore, that it is fine, that it is the position that we defend from the Candidature, that is, a defense of the small and medium-sized ramaderia, flaunted to the territory, which serves to co-ordinate it. And also a proposal that serves to advance towards food sovereignty, and, obviously, to oppose the construction of these macrogranges. In fact, as has already been mentioned, we are concerned, for example, about the Canós, this village of the Twenty-five-Vine Town where they want to build a macro-tree – yes, macro-tree, because it is very large – of 9,600 pigs. And, obviously, from here all our opposition and all our support to these veins and veins that yes, it's Isha to listen, to them too, and not just to the businessmen who want to build this farm. [[Widow's remorse.]] Exactly, we are... In Catalonia we must listen to everyone: those who want to do it, but also these twenty-five inhabitants, who, for a few years now, have all the right to be listened to and respected, therefore, in their opinion. And that's why we also support this young man. Still, to say that, well, in a few points and all remains short or generic mass, to hear us. But, well, we'll vote yes. As you know, with data from the department, 2020 in Catalonia had 7.9 million pigs, right? I mean, more pigs than inhabitants, at least in the Principality of Catalonia. Here we would add the heads of cattle, aus, etc., with all the purins that this means, in tons, in millions, and also women and chickens. From the past few years, the Ramadere farms have grown up in the territory, threatening this small and medium-sized ramadere that we defend, right? And the clear example we can see in the Atlantic sector, where 50,8_percent of the barns have fewer than one hundred cows, while only thirty producers – which are 7,2_percent of the total – produce 44,2_percent of the cow's bill at our home. A very obvious show of what is happening, therefore, to the sector: that every time is polarizing and the great industry is closing the small and medium-sized. We can also talk about discards, as has already been said: these macrogranges are massive and concentrated dumps, so in few spaces, attacking the necessary balance of the proper territories, right? , and, obviously, generating a competition for land between these macrogranges and the small and medium-sized, that everyone wants the land to be able to manage these discards. We could also talk about the contamination, as has been said, of the aquifers, of the fonts, that 535 municipalities are already designated as the vulnerable area in relation to nitrate contamination, etc. Therefore, there is a real, uninvented, medium-environmental problem. No one's making up their minds here. They should only look, therefore, at the report by Ecologists in Action which they did in 2021, which tells us of different themes, among others, that macrogranges are further encouraging the depopulation of rural areas, etc. Therefore, as we work and set ourselves, with concrete and urgent measures, to defend our storehouse, establishing, therefore, this moratorium, fair prices, completing the law of the food chain, etc. And all the necessary measures to support this sector at such difficult times. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.31.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.32.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, senyores i senyors deputats... For the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, this is a typical motion of whitening, face washing, which presents today the Catalan brand of Podemos to wash the face of its partner in the Government of Spain, to Minister Alberto Garzón, to the federal coordinator of United Left and militant of the Communist Party of Spain, converted to minister dedicated to consuming time in his office and sometimes to consuming the patience of many Spaniards and, in particular, of the farmers. Mr Alberto Garzón, I do not know if he is the result of his excessive contemplative activity, has specialized in stepping pools, several of which sprinkle on a sector, that of livestock, which has enough with what he has, with the difficulties proper to his economic activity, so as to have to endure the occurrences of an entire minister of the Government of Spain whose merits, beyond the strict quota, I must confess that I personally escape. Of course, to give an opinion on an essential activity of the primary sector, such as livestock farming, I doubt very much that it is the right person in the Government of Spain. We must not forget that, in his case, we are faced with an urbanite who probably does not know what it is to have calluses in his hands, but who do not hurt his clothes to step on the competences of a government partner, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr Luis Planas, to whom he has surely given more than one bad day. It's cohabitational companionship stuff. In any case, the Catalan Podemos is framed around the figure of the mayor of Barcelona, because, in addition to having lost much of its progressive essences, it has specialized in laundering; I do not mean money laundering, eh? , but to whitewash the unbridled acts of its current partners, in this case, of the Puemite faction of the Government of Spain and of those who once were – I mean Esquerra and, by extension, the Government of the Generalitat. They are, and have proved it every time they have had the opportunity, the perfect crutch. In fact, they have also whitewashed the engineer as a motion we have discussed just before the one we are dealing with, the Junts victimist related to the alleged difficulties and the alleged systematic persecution suffered by the Government of the Generalitat when it engages in agitation and propaganda at the international level. A supposed persecution that I must remind you that the Government of Spain is apparently not part of, either, of which you have no desire to be a part. You, your entire parliamentary group, in the last two legislatures in this Parliament have had an uncompromising tendency to whitewash and face-wash. And today we are presented with this motion on the alleged harmful effects of farms that exceed in size what you consider acceptable to whitewash your minister. See, from the economic point of view, the macro prefix is much better than the micro prefix, even if it is only from the point of view of competitiveness and economic performance. That said, as dignified and as important is extensive livestock farming as intensive livestock farming; as dignified and as important for economic activity are micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. From the point of view of Ciutadans, farms that may exceed in size what you consider admissible are not harmful per se; they are not harmful or should not be harmful if the health, livestock and environmental regulations that apply to them are strictly complied with. So, from the outset, we say about the biased view that the same title of the motion offers by referring exclusively to the harmful effects of large farms, which seems to us to be more focused, as I said, on the face washing of the minister who consumes his time in occurrences than to solve the possible problems associated with this type of livestock farms. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group does not intend to collaborate in this task of demonizing intensive livestock farming which is of vital importance in the economic sphere, which creates wealth and jobs and which, as other livestock farms do, serves the demand of citizens for essential products in the food chain. We did not want to help you in that commendable face-washing task that you do to Minister Garzón. That's his problem. Neither is it ours nor is it at all of the whole citizenry, consumes or not products from any type of farm, whether small, medium or large. So we have not tabled amendments to a text that, as I have said, is born with the typical bias of political formations that have made economic decline, of demonizing certain economic sectors, one of their signs of identity. Spanish livestock – and, by extension, Catalan livestock – are subject to standards of quality, animal welfare, veterinary safety and food safety that meet the highest global requirements, which apply within the European Union. Tell Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.33.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.34.0	Thank you, President. Well, we will vote yes to the points – which are very few – that they want to strengthen the treatise worthy of animals, as well as the compliment of the legislation already in force – and, therefore, it is worth the redundancy, of compulsory compliment – both in health and in terms of sustainability or labour legislation. We will vote that not at the points – that are the vast majority – that would make the production of meat in Catalonia impossible, production necessary for an integrated society for millions of people. Indeed, not everyone can afford the luxury meat that were served at Minister Garzón's wedding. In this sense, extensive and intensive storage can and must be perfectly compatible. And, finally, we'll abstain at some point that you don't have a dialog with the producers and that, ultimately, practically, we could say that someone has explained to you – I'm sure a producer doesn't – and that, moreover, they're carrying a little bit of ideological damage. And finally, transfer it to the president that, given the composition of the motion, I don't know exactly how many points to separate it ask. I think... I'm afraid we're gonna have to vote for them all, points and letters, separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.35.0	Perfect, thank you. Finally you have the word, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.36.0	Thank you all very much. Give thanks to the PSC, Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana for the reviews. Some considerations. To the company Alonso, from Ciutadans, maybe criticizing the minister's work the week that Albert Rivera has to make out of the law firm in order not to lean on me seems a little excessive. [[Give me the applause.]] He gave the lord of VOX a question that I have a lot of trouble, which is that defending the big food corporations is defending the producers of globalism. And it's just the opposite: if there's an expression of globalization in terms of food production in our home, it's the macrograns and it's the role that the monopolies of distribution and food production play. And another mantra that you're very good at is that thinking about macrogranges, directly or indirectly, is attacking the local economy. I've said it many times, I don't know how hard to repeat it, but it's that there are still barns running from Catalonia. We lost one of your barns in just over two years, and we lost it at a time up the market. And the third question, a question of price. Catalonia is not produced to consume. In Catalonia the vast majority of production is produced for export, and is produced without integrating environmental costs into production. Why don't we forget – and this is where you see from our motion – that the water and the contamination of the soil in Catalonia are paying them all, and that whoever has to assume them is the one who produced them, and not the rest of the city. And, about the pig cabin and the reduction of the pig cabin we are asking for in Catalonia, I understand that it may seem bad to them, but this issue is already on the table in Europe. In Germany, in Holland, at the conjunction of the European Union are reduced the rowing cottage. At home we like to be European to assume some things, and to make commitments we like much more to be Spanish, for what it seems, huh? [[Rialles.]] And more. Thank you again for the exams. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.37.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this noon, once the 29th item of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of cultural rights]] [[302-00089/13]] We now turn to the twenty-sixth item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.38.0	Thank you, President. Today we debate and – hopefully – we also approve a motion that wants to advance in guaranteeing cultural rights to Catalonia, a motion that knows that hearing culture is what allows us to be transformative agents and protagonists of our social practices. This young man wants to put a political look at culture. He wants to focus on the political character of culture, without reducing – and he said two weeks ago – what is political to the simple game of party interests, but..., in the most beautiful sense and the most collectible of politics. And, in fact, I have to say that the process of negotiating papers with the parliamentary groups that have not presented... with some of them has been one of the most constructed and most humane debate areas I've found since I was in this chamber. So thank you, indeed, to all the parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to make this young man a place to find, an opportunity for debate. And I hope that there will be a starting point to continue working on this line; not just on this line of cultural rights, but above all on this line of political action. We have voted that Parliament recognises the need for Catalonia to have a legislative framework based on the cultural rights collected, among other documents, in Article 27 of the Charter of Human Rights and to have access to cultural practices, innovation, democratic governance, recognition of diversity, fighting against exclusions and minorities, creativity, cultural production and community empowerment with the population and sectoral agents, as central considerations of their implementation. And, in fact, here, thanks to the question we asked a couple of weeks ago, Constella Natalia Garriga informed us that very soon..., in fact – hello – she informed us that very soon we would have the first draft of the law on cultural rights to work on this subject in depth from this chamber. And we celebrate. But above all, let us expect – above all – that this pre-draft law and the whole legislative process is working with the cultural sector in a broad sense – with the local world, above all, with the unions, with the associated fabric – and that there are strategies to combine the reactivation of these cultural sectors so hit by the pandemic with the fight against inequalities in the context of the population for the full exercise of cultural rights with criteria of equity and territorial intersectionality. And, of course, from the Commune we can continue at a time when the action of government wanders in the line of some of the agreements we announce in this young man. Because we've already said there's not enough to declare culture an essential good if there's no policy and legislation behind it. Therefore, we urge the Generality with this motion to take such actions as promoting an execution plan that will mediate cooperation with the local world, strengthen social cohesion through the recognition of the right to cultural practices and the impulse of community action throughout Catalonia, strengthen and consolidate the right to popular, cultural and traditional practices that promote diversity, interculturality, citizen participation and innovation. And, in this sense, we are also interested – and it is a proposal proposed by the CUP and in particular – an action to design specific actions of recognition and repair of the historical memory of Catalan colonialism and demonstrations of so-called historical memory at popular festivals to ensure dignity in the treaty, respect and non-discrimination of no person or community in the conception or development of popular festivals. Here there is a whole series of initiatives in this sense, but I could not fail in this movement, too, to incorporate the perspective of work, the class perspective, to contribute to the struggle against precariousness in the sector by giving priority to this interdepartmental table which has already been set up, but which really must continue to be followed. And here the Irene Aragones, of the Republican Left, therefore, has not given us an update. At all events, we believe that priority must continue to be given to those areas which are fighting against the precarious working conditions of the sector, because, if not, they cannot be talking about full guarantees of cultural rights. Give more thanks to the papers presented to the groups. And kings, many thanks also to the counselor for her disposition during the inquiry. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.39.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, good morning. Deputys and deputies, good morning. Certainly, we are debating a motion on cultural rights. At the first point of this young man there is a recognition of diversity. And I wanted to say to the proposing group, that they govern the State – and they govern the State, of course –... then, to recognize this diversity also means to recognize the multilingual state in which we are, that I'm sure they recognize it. But the creature weeps because we don't sometimes find concrete facts that accompany this recognition. I am therefore talking about opportunities such as the application of the European Charter of Minority Languages. I'm talking about pushing the català to Europe, like diversity. I speak of defending the Catalan minority speaking in the context of the State. I'm talking about things as simple as translating the ministries' websites. I am talking about issues as important as now verbalizing that some sentences based on repealed laws generate a non-existent right. All this would also be to defend cultural rights and diversity, as point 1. It's a very complex young man, I think; a young man I find too long. A young man who, as has been said, would vote in favour, but who, a few points, the debate that they generate..., is insufficient for five minutes of Faristol. Therefore, it seems to us that the policies have to fix the department and some things have to be discussed in other contexts, in other contexts, and we don't feel very comfortable, and we certainly won't support it. It must also be said that, for what it does to cultural rights, it was important, it was a fact, to the previous government, to the Government Torra, with Constellera Ponsa, when they approved the declaration of culture as essential. This allows us to open a folder of legislative texts, which the counselor announced to us that we would work here the law of cultural rights. We are content to be able to work in the face of culture being the fourth pillar of the welfare state. Education, culture must be understood as expanded education. We like this concept, and we seem to be working on it. We feel comfortable there, and for the country, for the collectivity, for Catalonia, for the birth, for society, it is necessary to work culture with the associated fabric and it is necessary to make it a community enhancement, as the motion says. I have spoken of bringing to the attention of the Conca in those questions in which it is noted that there is a culture that does not go up to many sectors, to collect with less resources, excluded, not administered. But it also seems to us that we need to recognize – and sometimes we don't do it enough – how we set up from the department to give scholarships to people, to the creators, to the performers, to the creative, to the autonomous, so..., this is perfectly compatible with the setting up of cultural industries. It recognizes, the motion, the industry as an economic motor and as a social motor and as an individual growth engine, but sometimes it makes a criticism of the setting up of cultural industries, when all forms part, in their integrity, of a setting that favors culture in general. The ICEC is doing its job. Most entrepreneurs are small businesses, workers... microenterprises of performers, artists, creators... And, therefore, it seems to me that we must begin to see it differently, to place ourselves at another point of view in this, because it is enough, from my point of view..., little defendable, I have not just heard. Look at you: the year 21, to the institution of Catalan Letters, seven hundred requests; see if this does not capillary much and many people in the Catalan Letters sector. Some are from burrows, others are from the world... foundations, industries, autonomies. So it seems to me that we have to start looking at this in another way. I was running out of time. I would like to thank the good disposition of Mrs González, Mrs Aragonès and Mrs Sabater. But in twenty seconds I'm left to talk about the local world. We need to listen more to the directors of culture, we need to listen more to the mayors, to the problems they have with the law of contracts of the public sector of the State at the time of managing the contracts. They're more... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Excuse me, I was running out of time, but it seems to me that this too, from the State, needs a review. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.41.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Member of Parliament, Irene Aragonès, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.42.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, good morning to everyone. Agrair la moció d'En Comú We can on the guarantee of cultural rights to our country. All political initiative that reinforces the idea that we always defend from Republicanism that culture is an instrument of social change, a tool of transformation and of better democratic quality, is in line with the transformation that we defend. And good morning, counsel – forgive me – that I see you here; good morning, welcome. We want, therefore, a country that makes culture as essential as the fourth pillar of the welfare state. A religious country, cohesive and strong in its identity, that promotes interculturality and drives free creation, critical thinking, the empowerment of the city and social inclusion. And a creative country, which promotes talent and is a generator of opportunities, strengthens social, cultural, associative, business, professional fabric. Therefore, the free cultural practice and universal access to culture must become this backbone of the country's civic values with the aim of promoting this critical thinking, promoting access to knowledge, promoting creativity and stimulating cultural joy in all its forms of expression. Unfortunately, we know that there are all sorts of barriers because everyone can access cultural products, and surely even more so that they can participate actively in cultural creation. We share in their totality the points of the movement: cooperation with the local world, cultural rights as guarantors of social cohesion, as well as to fight against racism, exclusion, stigmatization, and to ensure this feminist, intercultural, inclusive and linguistic rights of the citizenry in these first steps of the national pact for language. His movement, therefore, is in line with the future law of cultural rights, also in line with the cultural democratisation of everyone and for everyone, without exclusions, with the opportunity to create, participate, engage in cultural projects; with the removal of barriers to access cultural products and be able to participate actively in cultural creation, devoting resources to those most vulnerable sectors and establishing those regulations that remove these existing barriers. Recognition of cultural diversity, because we want culture as a dynamic and living process, protecting cultural and linguistic diversity in our country, as well as its identity, material and intangible heritage, traditions, creativity and all artistic languages. Armoring and protecting mechanisms to ensure and protect the rights of creators and creators in relation to aspects such as the freedom of creation and expression of artists, the defence of intellectual property, the right to decent and fair working conditions and the impulse of entrepreneurship. What we know is that they will be collected in the law that I commented on earlier and that they will later be reflected in concrete policies, and that, in fact, in some way they are already applied in the lines of aid to entities and associations, in programmes of artistic and cultural mediation, campaigns like "Scene 25 i" Six years ago. Sort one book, among many others. For what he does to the papers, thank Congresswoman Jess Gonzalez for this predisposition and the willingness to do so in these four transactions that we have arrived at and in the accepted emena, although we also want to make it clear that one of them loses, we think, all rigour when it is obvious that the Spanish State must be the determinant in the state of the artist, who is to push him. We can't give support to points 6, 8.d and 12. The interdepartmental table has already gathered and now the agreements, the consensuses, all the consensuses to which it has come have been applied, and they keep periodic contacts with the sector to develop them through the Departments of Culture and Enterprise and Work. For another band, the transaction with Ciutadans..., mark global percentages in all grants to young creators fills competitions with other grants. And you know perfectly well that, legally, this probably won't have any recourse. We follow, therefore, working also from here, from the Parliament, in this impulse demand the culture, the strengthening of the fourth pillar of welfare and the universalization of creation and consumption. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.43.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Member of the House of Representatives Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.44.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, councillor, very good morning. The pandemic has impacted more intensively on people's cultural rights with fewer resources. Participation in cultural life presupposes the possibility of finding a difference, so that it is now hardly threatened. And the reactivation of the cultural sector cannot be decoupled from the struggle against inequalities in the exercise of cultural rights. These are three ideas that Nicolás Barbieri, a researcher and professor in the field of cultural policies and social inequalities, already announced a year ago in one of his articles on the precariousness of the cultural sector and inequities in participation, reptes clau in the post-covid era. First of all, thank In Comú We can this young man, who addresses the rights of access to culture, and also that he has managed to accept and trade the items. Thank you very much, Congresswoman Jess González. And advance that our vote will be in favour of all points. The pandemic and its management have reproduced and exacerbated many of the inequalities that the cultural sector already has, with more harmful effects on the weaker people and communities working in the field of cultural production. That's why some of the papers that we've presented are the ones that bring back and bring some of the SMAC union's demands! – Union of Activist Musicians of Catalonia – and other organized sectors, as required, because the current legislation on contracting or minimum wages is complete, but that at the same time overcomes this legislation with a new status of the artist and cultural worker. And, yes, it may be state-dependent right now, but I think that we from here precisely want to confront and impose this sovereignty, and it's also up to us to move forward here. That is why, in this very sense, we have also requested that the inter-departmental table be reconvened, because, as we have already been well informed, the last meeting was March 31st. It's considered a locked job. We believe that it should be called back, because reality goes beyond what was decided in March. Another group of papers focused on excavating and completing the hope of the movement, which is a hope that very well backs the hope of Article 27 of the Human Rights Charter, bearing in mind that the pandemic and its management have increased all these inequalities, both in production and in access to culture. And, therefore, what we have done is to bring in elements that will example the hope that the young man already has, as he has raised himself. As the same Barbieri details, "living in a certain barri, village, village, having experienced a migratory process, having a certain age or a certain gender, to mention a few factors, can make us more vulnerable not only in our salvation, but also in our opportunities to exercise the right to participate in cultural life. And, therefore, this is the object of many of the points that this young man has. And the other points that we have brought to us have been mainly in three factors: in the access to Catalan language as a factor of equity, in the colonial deconstruction of traditional culture and, finally, in the protection of basic equipment from all over the territory. This is what Barcelona's participation and cultural needs are all about in a clear way: the closure of basic equipment – such as libraries or civic centres – that respond to the needs of citizens and offer opportunities to participate in cultural life affects to a greater extent precisely the most precarious sectors. And there are concrete data that indicate that the impact of this closure is harder on people living in low-income barrels than on those living in middle-income or high-income barrels, who are also not affected, but it is much more in low-income barrels. And that is why we also have a special point where there must be a vigilance over which no people, no bars, no city, no area of our territory, remain without these servants. Culture, like community law and expression, accessible and popular, adds up to anti-equalities and prevention against totalitarianism, counters cultural, colonial, classist and excluded neoliberalism, and is an instrument of personal and collective liberation. Thank you very much for your time. And we'll vote for it all. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.45.0	I, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.46.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, particularly Congresswoman Jess Gonzalez, who took the initiative... Well, she was invited to participate in this young man's event. We were going to present two of them, which did not seem to us to be inexhaustible. One accepted, that is to ensure that fifteen percent of the import of all subsidies went to young independent creators as a way of encouraging the emergence of new talents, even though it is true that the last sentence of the slogan, which was significant, was removed, was read: "...so as to prevent the most well-installed operators in the sector from grabbing all the fonts thanks to their contacts. Make us conclusions. Another issue that seemed important to us was to ensure that twenty-five percent of the import of all subsidies is destined for creation in Spanish language – wow! You see, culture is life; but in a society like Catalan, it's death in life. Culture and language are two victims, not to say two martyrs, of the process, of forty years of process. There has never been a society that, giving so much theoretical importance to its language and culture, does apparently everything it can to destroy them. We appreciate the effort of the commons, even though for us as common as socialists they are inscrutable, culturally speaking. We are clear where they are, these lords: against language, against culture, against everything that really feeds the people of Catalonia, because they have a vision, as they say, "minorized. Or else, they're treating the language, the culture, so, as if it were a creature, as if it were a minor age, to which it might overprotect, to watch what it speaks to the duck..., in short, to scan. They are Stalinists of pay, especially the leaders of the CUP, who do not surprise me that they announce joyfully that they will vote for the totality of the young man, because they have done so themselves. I mean, if the original text of the motion... to us, man, it seemed to us, some things, so, better, but it sounded like a good-willed expression, to open a debate about cultural rights. Well, after the ‘CUP roll', you see, it's..., it's unrecognizable, it's inidentifiable, for which we, which in principle we could have voted – apart from the point we negotiated – many points in favour, so we won't have to vote much more against than we would have liked. He knows it's hard, because we think it's hard. So here's to play with culture as a political tool, with a political weapon, so it's possible to do evil. You mentioned the party interests. Well, once again, the party interests – i.e., the Stalinists of Pagés – are imposing themselves on the authentic defense of cultural rights. Let them understand that Catalan culture will be bilingual or not. All the attempts they make to deny this, to store the or, to invent euphemisms like'minority', to pretend consensus when there is no, to set people up..., all this will be the slow but inexorable death of Catalan culture. And I hope those who oppose us will have the strength to avoid it. For the time being, I've left it here, not without... well, by allusions... here's been talked about... well, you've had a little respectful comment about Mr. Albert Rivera. Well, Mr. Albert Rivera, founder of Ciutadans, and to whom all of us owe a lot, has worked more for Catalonia and Spain than the totality of the ministers of Podemos who are in government. I don't know... Mr. Rivera has already announced legal actions against people who have publicly questioned his work honor, but, I'm telling you, if I can pay money because the ministers of Podemos don't even get to work, or else, pleguessing tomorrow, I swear to you that he was demanding a credit. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.47.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word Mrs Rocio Garcia, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.48.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. Cultural rights are a principle of cultural democracy, cohesion and social transformation, affecting production, creation, enjoyment, formation, and ensuring equal opportunities for all. Culture is a social right, a pillar of the welfare state that needs to be protected. Cultural rights are also fundamental human rights, we have already said. Thus, a law of cultural rights in Catalonia would mean protecting and preserving the right of the population in its conjunction. We think you'll also have to take a multicultural and pluralist, feminist, inclusive, and fair look. The Catalan law of cultural rights will have to count with a great participation of the cultural and education sectors, of artistic teachings, of entities, of associations of traditional and popular culture, of museums and archives, of collections of the world of creation and of new emerging digital and audiovisual sectors. It will be necessary to recognize all those people involved: artists, creators, managers, promoters, workers and professionals of culture. You will have to listen to everyone and represent all the cultural and multilingual diversity of Catalonia. Culture is a common good, and everyone has to have access to and participation in processes that drive administrations. Thus, cultural rights are necessary pillars for a more egalitarian, democratic, plural, diverse, respectful, innovative, advanced and forward-looking society. For all this, our group wants to be the impulse of this pre-project, of this Catalan law, and we have expressed our willingness to participate in it and to make contributions to it. We make a responsible opposition to involve us in everything that improves the quality of life of the people of Catalonia. Also because with the world of culture we have a compromise that sees a lot of the world. And there would be more: culture is at the heart of the SCP, a sector with which we have always had strong ties, with which we share values and paths. The original text of the motion presented seemed as good as the starting point, as a statement of general points that we could share, but it was very little concrete in many aspects. We believe that it is also important to focus more on presuppositional aspects, which we have seen than in later negotiations with government groups and with the government, so the proposed group has not yet concluded. We would like to add, in this sense, and with any construction, that we have indeed submitted papers, papers that have not been approved, for a value of 5_million euros. This means that when we talk about rights, we also need to talk about resources. There are no rights without resources. The rights of the citizenry are defended with public resources, with inversion, with assumptions, and that is what we have not found in this proposal submitted. We never make make-up proposals, nor do we serve this room to talk about what the Barcelona Assembly does. We could do that too, because the PSC rules it, and when we govern the advanced culture. The six_per_cent dedicated to culture at the Barcelona Assembly is 150_million euros. I, of these, forty per cent go to finance great national equipment that the Generality should assume, and only two per cent up the barrel. Like a lot of other municipalities. We carry more than a decade of replacing the lack of investment in cultural policies of the governments of the Generality. There may be many examples of how the assemblies have had to protect the cultural rights of citizens without the support of cultural councils. And it only takes a few: the Altaveu Festival of Sant Boi, the Fifteenth Metropolitan Dance, the Factoria SI of Cornellà – with the residence of small theatre and dance companies from all over Catalonia – but there are many more. We continue to demand this plan of measures for the recovery and reinforcement of Catalonia's culture with economic endowment and presuppostary commitments. And the motion is also about negotiation in the artist's state. It is worth saying that there is work going on, that there is a lot going on, and that it would also have been good that some groups that have now submitted papers to this young man and that defend the state of the artist, therefore, have also given support to the labor reform, that the labor reform also declines much of the better of the conditions of social security work of artists and workers of the culture of Catalonia. In short, the young lady thought she had a very good start. We'll give them support. And we hope to continue working on this elaboration, on this preliminary project, on the law of cultural rights in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.49.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. In Comú Puermos presents here a motion about everyone's access to cultural life, a concern that we applaud from VOX, as it cannot be in any other way. It contains some uncertain aspects, adjuncts, such as the need to combat the precariousness of the cultural sector, although we have seen that they are a little unclear, some of these elements that we consider to be uncertain. According to data from the Conca, the Catalan cultural sector has suffered a twenty-i-four_per_cent loss of entrances in relation to the year 2019. All just the performing and musical arts have lost a seventy-two_per_cent of admissions. That is to say, the management of the cultural sector that the Government of the Generality has done has been harmful; but its ineptitude is not only conjunctural, it is structural. Now, the Lords of Comú We can protest before the precariousness of the cultural sector, but they do not criticise the swaying, the malaise of the government that has made of the sector, and that has placed the culture all the way to achieving the objective promised in the agreement of government to have a presumption of two_per_cent of the GDP; nor to return it to the councillor, Mrs. Garriga, who has the shame to say that culture is the fourth pot of the welfare society, when the presumption of Culture is the fourth lowest of the fourteen of the Generality, of the departments of the Government of Enguany. You are accomplices of the precariousness that you denounce, since you have approved these assumptions, and, moreover, you are partners of Mrs. Garriga, accused of a presumed crime of heavy disobedience. Certainly, they demanded, to Mrs. Garriga, that you submit to a reference why the people decide whether to resign? I'm saying that because this is the criteria that you and your leaders have always used, such as Mrs. Colau, in these cases of the defendants... I don't think so. [[Some applause.]] Looks like no, huh? Coherence is not her fort. It's one thing to preach, and the other to give blat. Culture is a human, free, universal and timeless activity that emanates from its spiritual dimension all around the bondage, the beauty and the well, that are the true social cohesives. I don't understand restrictive classifications, groups or collections, it's everybody's and everybody's, and it transcends time and space. For this reason we do not understand that this movement of In Comú We can ask that the perspectives of feminist, genera, cross-sectional, multicultural, linguistic immersion be incorporated into the cultural policies of the Generalitat... Once more, try to put culture in the service of the identities of left and separatism. Well, they're talking about reformulating grant calls, but they don't criticize the discrimination suffered by Catalan culture in Spanish language. I'll give you some examples. According to the bases of the Gaudí awards – point 2.c – the category of best film can only choose the productions in Catalan original version. Another: in the National Theatre of Catalonia in 2020 there were one hundred_dotze performances in Catalan and thirty-night in castle. Third: more than 12_million euros have gone to the Ramon Llull Institute, which promotes Catalan language and culture abroad only in Catalan. And please don't bring to school the excuse that the Generality has to promote only culture in Catalan because for the sake of the castle we already have the Spanish State, as you like to say. The memory that the State promotes Catalan courses all over the world – for example, in Moscow – through the Cervantes Institute; it develops programmes in Catalan television and radio from many years ago, and the last year has facilitated a 20_millions of euros in direct investments to the main cultural institutions in Barcelona. Because administrations are not exempt, but they must complement each other. Well, in conclusion, because of his restrictive intentions of culture and his generalizations and cabories, we will vote against most of the points of this lençol young man, which, moreover, serves such a rocoque and cursive rhetoric that makes it difficult to understand some of his points. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.51.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.52.0	Thank you very much, President. We are going to abstain throughout the motion, and I explain why. Let's see... when we talk about culture and actually use this baroque terminology, I say it with all due respect to its editors, but it seems to me a very rare story. And I mean it, really, with all due respect. Look, first of all, the cultural movements, all throughout history, whether the new wave or the thrash metal of San Francisco Bay, arise outside political power and against political power, whether it be left-wing or right-wing. It is a first consideration that should be made clear. Secondly, because access to the culture of young people, especially the most disadvantaged, is either spontaneous and genuine or is a Korean roll and a supine boredom. And here comes the real fundamental problem, which is the relationship between public authorities and culture. Look, the public authorities' relationship with culture and what you call 'cultural rights', that relationship, in the case of culture, is not the same as with health and education. It's not the same, and it can't be the same by definition. When we talk about health and education, even those who are liberal and believe in public-private cooperation know that the principle of universality is fundamental. In the case of the relationship of culture with the public authorities, the public authorities must maintain a prudent distance for that culture to be truly pure and truly constructive. What do public authorities have to do when we talk about culture? To ensure that the cultural heritage is maintained, and, yes, to make public spaces available to creators. But it is already – it is already –; the rest must be free, spontaneous, and must have politicians far away. Because, listening to your perrats today and your terminology, you are taken away from the desire to go to the movies of pure boredom. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.53.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.54.0	See if I can answer everything. First place, Junts per Catalunya. This is not where Congressman Ten is – without writing, too. Smile not smile, if the young man is too long. We'll have time to discuss it calmly in the law process, but I do want to make a point on the subject of industry. And here I make a personal drop point, and therefore also political. Jo, like the ballerina, we're also part of the cultural fabric. I'm part of a dance company, which is called Sentiment Cimarron, and many other things. We should ask them, for example, to the Black Tinta collection, to the Pan African Bookstore, to the Periphery Cimarronas, to the festival Furiasia, how much access they have to public resources, to public subsidies, and what lacks they find to relate to the Administration. So, this kind of collection that's making culture from the base... I'm not saying they're in counterposition, but they don't have access to these great cultural industries. Or we'll talk about it in the legislative process. Secondly, to Mrs Aragones, and also in line with what Mrs Sabater said, according to which sovereignty is also to take the bull for the banyas, and the things that correspond to Catalonia at the level of precariousness and at the level of guaranteeing minimum wages when the Government is the contracting party that we should assume. This does not mean that, obviously, here we will follow the government of the State to do so. And, in fact, he made a statement, in this sense, of compromise with the artist's state these days. For Ciutadans..., well, Catalan culture does not have to be only bilingual. Catalonia is spoken more than three hundred languages; it must be multilingual, and it must contemplate absolutely all of them, so... In this case, we have accepted a message, but this one had no sense. At VOX... I won't talk about precariousness to anyone who hasn't worked in his life. I to PP, welcome to the 21st century. I mean, it's making a definition of the past century's policy and a definition of the past century's culture as well. So, well, let's see if we're talking when the legislative process comes and we get a little bit of agreement. We would like to thank all parliamentary groups for their work during this time, and we would like to work to ensure that Catalonia has a law that guarantees the cultural rights of all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.55.0	Thank you very much. So, finish the... yes, Mr. Acosta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.56.0	Request permission for allusions to an erroneous interpretation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.57.0	I'm sorry, Mr. Acosta, but you know perfectly well that on the Board of Spokesmen we have considered that the references in the reply of the defences to the motions are not as close as the references, because they are necessarily all the way to each other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.58.0	I've been working for the past seventeen years. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.59.0	I told them that once the debate is over, the vote on this point will take place at this midday, after we substantiate item 29 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into economic recovery plans and European foundations]] [[302-00090/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-and-seventh point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the economic recovery plans and the European foundations, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.60.0	Well, good morning, thank you. We are talking here about a subject which, during a few months, occupied many pages, which was the great illusion that European foundations were, which is now managed from the absolute opacity, discretion and at the same time with a clear will, in our view, to obviate a whole sector, to obviate citizenship, which has long been demanding transparency, to obviate a democratic and participatory management, and which, therefore, obliges us to work to put a little light on all the shadows around European foundations. And why do we have shadows around European foundations? Because we understand – and we have already defended the question – that the European foundations end up being linked to a series of marked measures for which the European Union defines. Measures which, in the short term, may not have a considerable impact on the material conditions of the working class, but which in the medium and long term pose an excessively high risk of having negative consequences. Negative consequences that we have lived a few years ago, at a time when this working class, this mass of the population, did not recover from the 2008 crisis, because, despite the fact that the big figures said that the economy was recovering from the 2008 crisis, what was evidence was that macros were recovering..., right? , the macroeconomic indexes, but the micro-economy were not recovering. And, at the same time, it was important to put this debate on the table at a time when great reforms were beginning to be approved or, more quickly, small reforms that were linked to these foundations and that were not explained in this connection. Because it is true that the European Union has now seen more relaxed moments than 2010 and 2012, but it also seems quite clear that the European Union has never accepted a total derogation from those laws that arose from the pressure of the Commission and the European Central Bank that were produced in 2010 and 2012. And, therefore, we may have to explain that the small changes that have been made to labour reform..., because yesterday someone said « lies, but the 2012 reform has not been repealed, despite the fact that there have been small changes. And, therefore, that has to be explained, too, not as a victory and not deceiving the people. I mean, there wasn't... and I never accepted the European Union, as I said, was there? , the total derogation; they could not accept some small changes. And we have to explain this: this job reform is also the result of the agreement for European foundations. And the reform of pensions or the initiation of pension reform also has to do with these European foundations. And we're talking about that, too, because we're worried about the situation that's starting to live now. Because for now it is not necessary, an internal devaluation like that which was in the previous crisis, but let's do it for now. And for the time being, there has been an unknown phenomenon in the past few years, historically known, but in the past few years it had not occurred to this extent, which is inflation, which can lead to problems already experienced. And, therefore, I want to say that, with European foundations, we also need to start investing and generating or facilitating tools because these problems that have already been experienced are not producing. And that's why it's important that European foundations are transparently managed and that they go, above all, to strengthen public services still unrecovered from the 2008 crisis and that, before a possible new crisis, they must be stronger than ever in order to never again suffer what we've already experienced at a time of still more feverish. That is why we are raising the need for transparency, transparency on the part of the State, but also transparency on the part of the Generality; that we are raising the need for the participation of more sectors than they are now participating in the management of the funds; that we are setting the firm commitment of this Parliament not to apply new austerity measures in the future. And what we're planting, actually, right? , that the European foundations wander to what they should be destined for, that it is to strengthen public services and to truly transform the production system of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.61.0	To defend the papers presented, has now the word, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr. Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.62.0	Good morning, Counselor Giró, deputies, deputies, public that accompany us... Sorry, the habit of wearing it all the time, huh? ... [[The watchman's taken off the mask.]] Good morning, as we say. Thank you, President. Well, this is a matter of concern for the CUP's partners to present to us, in fact, what they are going to channel, beyond, many times, the terms in which the phrase we approve or kill – that is why we have submitted reviews – is a matter of concern. A widespread concern, huh? , which we have here in our country, in Catalonia, which we have already expressed on repeated occasions and also to the first Committee on Economy and History, for the distribution and for the destination that is being made of these funds Next Generation, right? In fact, a set of projects and illusions were opened, when this extraordinary background was announced, but as the months went by we see some difficulties in their execution, in their arrival above all to the peppers, to the entities, and even to the joints, eh? - I also, with the mayor..., also ho patim. And, therefore, this lack of concreteness puts us a little..., to be alert, and, therefore, generates this concern, that this young man, in different points, also channelizes. I have also said this many times: if we were a similar state, we could enjoy directly some parties of these foundations, directly from Europe. That's not it. They come channeled through the Spanish State, a part in the form of direct help and a part in the form of debt, huh? , which is what Mrs Regurant also warned in this sense, that everything that forms part of the debt, so..., obviously, they are foundations that can activate society and the economy, but in the background they are also a burden for the coming generations, right? 'cause it's a very important, very important, huh? from the Spanish State, huh? , by the way..., of the around 70,000_million euros, which are many thousands of millions of euros, which is said very easily, but which are many thousands of millions of euros. In Catalonia, in addition, we have to remember that 2020 itself was a commission for social and economic recovery, with a set of measures that we presented in November 2020, but it was also entrusted to Coreco, a group of experts, which also set up a set of proposals that were brought forward and submitted to Parliament also in 2020. Since the government of Catalonia, there have also been a whole set of programs and proposals that have been presented to the state government, huh? , to the principles that is spoke of the Next Generation fonds. As I said, as the months passed, so a little grew up and a little disappointment was instituted. Disappointment as to distribution, disappointment as well as the terms in which they are being put on the market, and that, therefore, they are generating that society is active or that the economy is active. I won't say my words... just remember and make hemeroteca. The Secretary of Economic Affairs and European Affairs a few weeks ago, in her appearance at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, said that this policy that the Spanish State is doing is diluting us as in the territories and can limit competitiveness and hinder access to the fund to the small and medium-sized enterprise, an alert that we have already given to the government we support. Matilde Villarroya also said that decisions taken during these years will depend on the future of the nine generations. His own advisor Giró, in a parliamentary appearance at the CUP inquiry, also said..., reiterated the deplorable role played by the Spanish government in the domestic management of the funds. In Spain, the programme entrusted to the autonomous communities is an administrative task, a management task, and takes over the entire management, centralized and full, from the state. And that's all a big deal, and, as we say, it generates that concern. Also, the forces that are not independent... don't think this is a complaint or a cry from the independenceists. No, no, These past weeks the mayors of the PP went to Brussels to denounce discrimination in the distribution of European funds, and the President of Andalusia is also complaining about the distribution of European funds. Therefore, it is not a political complaint, it is a clear complaint for a way of making the Spanish State. For what he does to Catalonia, he also explained the secretarial background: we should distinguish, huh? , that the CUP's motion, at some point, therefore, I say in general, distinguish..., we believe, as a group that we support the Government, distinguish it that it is the programs that are linked to the Fed - the regional development foundations -, the React, which..., these are the ones administered by the Generality of Catalonia. And, therefore, Mrs Villarroya, in her parliamentary office, and to all the parliamentary groups, gave us, in fact, a scheme and a pastisset, a formatget, in which the distribution made by the Generalitat of Catalonia is clear. And the rest are the foundations of sustainable and resilient recovery, destined for reindustrialisation, the RRMs; these are the ones that... In any case, we raise and repeat this complaint, this complaint of lack of transparency of the State, complaint that even the Greuges Synod collected, and different entities, in relation to this lack of transparency of the Spanish State. So much for that. A complaint that we hope will also arrive to your members of the Congress of Deputies. And in any case, the complaint that we have is our own inability to manage our own future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.63.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.64.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs... We all know that in economy one of the basic concepts is what we call the "cost of opportunity," that's to say, what you stop doing, investing and consuming, while doing, investing or consuming other things, right? And the reason presented to us by the UPC today is the virtue of arriving at a good time to talk about this opportunity cost in relation to the Next Generation fund. It's another way of saying that we have to hold onto these projects, on these foundations, a real will and a real capacity for transformation, precisely because this opportunity cost exists and is no less. First of all, the opportunity cost of the same resources, right? It is true that the mutualization of the debt diminishes the risk of respectable countries, but does not exempt them. And, moreover, as the CUP points out in its motion, debt today to the market is to equip those markets with pressure mechanisms to influence the public policies of the respectable nations, too. And, secondly, the opportunity cost of taking advantage of or not of the time window that these sources open; a unique window in the European context and, most likely, limited to a relatively short period. As the motion points out, all this is possible for the suspension – not the derogation – of the current Stabilisation and Growth Pact. And this has expiration date. We do not know when the full force of the pact will be restored, and we hope that, if it is recovered, it will be substantially modified. But the danger that European institutions want to slow down too quickly is no less, and current inflation is a greater risk in this sense. Today it is not guaranteed that the European Union will not fall back on the 2008 mistakes. And precisely because these opportunity costs exist, it is essential that Next Generation funds be used as a lever to transform, to orient our economy towards a greener, more sustainable and resilient model. They cannot devote these projects to financing businesses or to projects that would have been done the same. And we can't devote funds to ensuring private gain at the cost of public risk. We cannot allow it to be Malagasy, nor in projects that do not justify an economic, social or environmental return in the measure of the investment adopted. If this happens, we would have to carry the consequences: greater debt and European conditionality risk, but without the benefits we would have to aspire to. Therefore, the only way to cope with a new period of forced, predictable stability is to count each time with an efficient, diversified economy, with high productivity indices, able to support and overcome the major foreseeable demands. Here we cannot overlook the danger that today represents the Spanish State in this sense. In the long run, the Spanish State is re-centralizing and tends to make us strictly a simple administrative office of its decisions. And it is essential that Catalonia has the capacity to make real decisions about how it is distributed and managed. We have, therefore, an open and not-so-long period, in which the institutions and Catalan society play a great part. All actors will have to calibrate well and we will have to close precisely in many critical decisions, concentrated in a short time. And we will have to do so in a sea of dubious institutional joy on the part of the State, working from the optics of general interest, in the medium and long term, but without the tools and the decision-making capacity that the object requires. We'll have to be able to negotiate, rule, rule. We will have to decide with five private and public interests we work with five business start-ups we want to count. We record clear warnings of what is already happening: Pimec complained that only three per cent of the funds are focused on peppers; the state's loss to transform the economy, the big projects, for its ability to flush are also very explicit. We have a project, for example, of the selected sets, which consists of saying that artificial intelligence must be used to project and promote language..., the castle, the Spanish language; a magnificent example of propitious nationalism and to continue the lamination of the linguistic diversity of the State. We agree, therefore, in the direction of the young man, in the concerns that raise us. They know the agreements that we have reached, what we have negotiated, the points that we will vote for. In some we will abstain and in some, few, against. But most of us will vote in favour. In any case, I think it's time today to thank them for putting on the table a debate that we can't ignore if, in fact, we don't want to repeat the errors of 2008. And, besides, we have a complex management ahead of us, which will give us continuous indications of the risks we take, of the opportunities the country knows or does not know how to take advantage of. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.65.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix the position has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.66.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, good morning to you all. I can't be, Congressman Maragall, with all the admiration that I've always had for him, because I think he's a reflective person – sometimes he misses a little, with this reflection – but I think he was talking about the cost of opportunity. This young man is a clear example of opportunity cost. Because European foundations give for a lot. And the many economic, social, problems that have spilled over many decades... so now we see that we have an opportunity for the European crisis and the European fund. This is historic, and it is certainly the most historic public policies that will pass us through the very decades. So, man, we have to take advantage of them, 140,000_million. And it turns out we're bringing a young man here... There's a positive element – and I'm going to recognize it as a Reguant MP – to say... the participation of the assemblies – the local administration, the great oblivion. So we buy it. And we have said it several times, that the Generality does not take into account the participation of the assemblies. And when it's a complaint that they don't listen to me, then, we don't do it many times with the gatherings. So, this one does. But in the rest we find that there is a great cost of opportunity to actually make a calm, deep reflection, without harm, which is what moves us many times and is also a great cost of opportunity. Always talking with prejudice when things come from the Government of Spain..., or now I see also here, curiously – and that also the groups that support the Government add to it – you harm about the European Union. Clearly, this young man, who was talking about European foundations and we could talk about the transformation of our economy and the great opportunities we have – renewables, electric vehicle, agri-food, peppers, tourism, microxips, the challenges of energy costs, sub-administration, start-ups, artificial intelligence and a wide range of how we need to help transform our economy into a global environment – so it turns out that we are posing ourselves in a youth that says – what you say – that we are against Eurobons. Next, with the economic crisis, we complained that there was austerity, and now that we have an expansive policy, we complain that we have to make Eurobons. So, man, I think it's a mistake. Or we complain about labor reform. I don't know if it's up here to talk about labor reform. Or we complain about pension reform. I don't know if it's up here to talk about pension reform; surely, huh? , with a very global reflection. Or we complain about the Government of Spain – a recenter, who does everything wrong and who doesn't know what... And can't we take advantage of multilateral spaces precisely to try to bring our voice to bear and join efforts with the autonomous communities that have concerns similar to ours? Or we complain about the LOSS. Are we against agri-food loss or automotive? Everything can be better and surely there are fears to be better, but we are in favour of it. Or, for example, a motion on European foundations where practically it is not about the economy of the private world, the business. They're talking about governance, they're talking about... but public-private collaboration... it seems that obviously they don't agree. Therefore, it is impossible to manage the European foundations with the guidelines that the European Union has marked without taking into account the private enterprise, without losing out, without making great transformational projects of our economy. This does not happen, as you say quite rightly, to strengthen basic and essential public services; it would only be missing. That they have also put in that typical and topical government slogan that says: "Keep working to strengthen basic public services. Well, of course, yes, we agree that the basic public service needs to be strengthened. But I believe that here – I am also taking up the phrase used by Mr Munell, he was talking about his own incapacity – we are certainly going back to sin as his own incapacity to define a transformative project and to use these directly managed European foundations – all those who can, well, manage them directly – but I am also supplementing the European Union's rules or also the guidelines that are the mark of the Spanish Government to get to all the roots of this country. And sometimes we don't remember that a grant that came directly from the Government of Spain to a private company that is also interested in Catalonia. I believe that here we can also lose the train that you help the private sector or public-private projects – but also private, which are open calls – do not arrive because they are making this speech that they do not reach the peppers. I'm making a guy... For example – and I also want to make a recognizance here –, Pimec. Pimec does one thing that does it very well: back off all grant calls, precisely because small and medium-sized businesses are in the middle of all the many grants that come from the Generality or the Government of the State. I therefore believe that this is the right line to have plans for the economic and social future in our home and to try to make sure that from the government of the State, from the European Union and, obviously, also with our own competitions, we try to get them to the maximum possible of the productive economy. Therefore, we will vote against everything I have already said that is sterile criticism of the Government of Spain – Eurobons, labor reform – and we will vote in favour of strengthening basic services and participation in the assemblies. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.67.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Antonio Gallego has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.68.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Deputies, Mr Conseller Giró, Spain has suffered an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis due to the damn Chinese virus. The European funds offer us the possibility of finding a short-term exit thanks to the €140,000_million that will come. Using that money properly is critical for the future. Are we doing all right? Obviously not. Three fundamental ideas. Firstly, I wanted to talk about the lack of transparency. The department's own number two, Matilde Villarroya, in attendance told us, a few weeks ago, that even she did not know where they were coming from, who were the beneficiaries of the aid that had been promoted so far. I mean, that can't go on like this. This isn't normal. Secondly... and that's why the VOX Parliamentary Group calls for light and stenographers. That is why, at the beginning of January, we called, through a motion for a resolution, for the creation of an anti-fraud plan – which we are glad that it was approved last week – and we are also logically demanding that the Union of Auditors should tax up to the last cent of the aid granted. You have to be very aware. That is, it won't be the first time that situations of bites, corruption occur in Catalonia... And there is a legendary tendency to fatten those customer networks in which they always end up benefiting themselves and could end up putting at risk the fate, usefulness and effectiveness of Next Gen funds, right? Secondly, it is clear that there is an ineffective start-up, is there not? We're late. We're already in 2022 and the aid is coming to the drop-down companies, huh? – with dropper. Just one thing: in 2021, the Government of Spain only distributed 5,200_millions, and of that number, only two_per_cent has reached large companies, to companies in general – only two_per_cent. So, you can't say we're doing it right. Only three tenths of this aid has contributed to the growth of the Spanish economy. Therefore, we are, in the end, not using this tool well that is positive. In addition, from the Spanish Government, a number of Baronies of the Socialist Party and its parliamentary partners are being rewarded with political criteria that have not just been well understood. I think that we could be much more objective in distributing this type of aid. The implementation of these plans requires agility, flexibility and professionalism. And I really believe that the public administration alone cannot properly distribute and monitor the projects that are being presented. I believe that we have to rely much more on private enterprise, we have to bet a lot more on public-private collaboration and we have to integrate independent experts and professionals, with total operational independence from the political power. We are concerned that political power is too much above the allocation of these aid. Spain has a harmful tradition in taking advantage of the European funds in general, not only the Next Gen but the EDF funds, the classic ones. In other words, there is a report from the European Court of Auditors that says that Spain, between 2014 and 2020, has spent only thirty-nine per cent of the aid it has received. Therefore, that makes us suspect that this time we will not do it better, and we will be..., VOX will be very demanding when asking that the Government, the authorities..., the Government of Spain and also, of course, the Generalitat of Catalonia, in reference to the funds that it directly allocates and manages, do so reasonably well. In other words, I think we should bet on more technical, more efficiency and public-private collaboration. They're poorly designed, too. Only three-per-cent of the funds have come to SMEs, which are more than ninety-per-cent of the business fabric in Catalonia and the rest of Spain and generate more than seventy-per-cent of the employment in our country, and, instead, they are not getting there. Moreover, they are ill-designed because there are too many political apriorisms. That is, they are designed on the basis of covering and satisfying certain mantras linked to the 2030 agenda..., in short, they have not just been understood. Many times, one thinks that they are not aid designed to really help the Spaniards, who have seen the pandemic ruin their economies, businesses and businesses. And we will only vote positively on the point that refers to more control, more transparency, and the rest of the points presented by the UPC, because, in the end, this seems to us to be the theory of decline that they make, right? , and makes a pestilent tufo to interventionism, banana social-communism, bureaucratization, Marxism..., the classic of the CUP, which neither surprises us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.69.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.70.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor Giró, I am pleased that you are here, above all because it contrasts with the absence of the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work yesterday when we talk about issues that concern workers and workers in general. They must be different: an economic advisor who is concerned about the economic elements of the country; a business and work advisor who is not talking about the themes of the workers. That's right, send in the inside counselor, because maybe what it is to control the workers, who don't want to demand their rights on the street and claiming. That said, joke aside, we're in front of a young man who's introduced the UPC, who's a strange young man for me, because it's a more declarative than a proposed one. But that's what's there, and that's what we need to position ourselves on. We have enjoyed taking advantage of the debate on the foundations: they must allow us to transform our economic structure into a positive feeling and reinforcing the elements of social recovery as well. But unfortunately, we have not got into these issues. We will vote no at the first three points; we will vote yes at the other, except for the eighth point or..., the set point, where..., no, the new point, which we will abstain from – the last point, which we will abstain from. Now I'll explain a mike for what. The first three cannot vote; they cannot vote for various questions. Because they want to contribute substantially to the institutional disclaimer of the Government of the State with the management of the funds. Well, it's legitimate that you want to contribute to this. What is happening, that behind the discussions that have taken place in the three points, there is a political attitude that coincides with the attitude and political action that at these times the People's Party and VOX are developing, confronting Brussels with the political-institutional management of European foundations to prevent them from arriving here. We do not agree with a political action that coincides with that of the PP and VOX against the arrival of European foundations – we do not agree with that. And the second. Nor do we agree with another approach that is more appropriate: the frugal policies of Holland, Austria and other countries in relation to Eurobons. Clearly, questioning Eurobonds at these times means that we are in the logic of the austerity management that was caused by the 2008 crisis. It's not what we care about. I believe that with the Eurobonds there has been a step towards breaking that logic of neoliberal policies that inspired the whole of the European Union to go, say, even though timidly, towards a more supportive, more common model, to address crises and transform reality. That's why in these first three points we'll vote no. The rest of the points have already said that we will vote yes. We believe that we need to share this strategy of economic transformation that must be allowed by European foundations..., to ensure social recovery. I want to make sure that this economic recovery pivots over the reinforcement of public benefits and the welfare state. From this point of view, of course, we are totally in favour. Therefore, an economic transformation strategy that is committed to social recovery and equality. And this... I think we're in this line right now. The Government of the State is placing the elements that must allow strategic transformation to advance with social recovery as well. The law riders, the labour reform, the minimum interprofessional wage, the strengthening of the labour inspection, are elements that must contribute that, at the time that this economic transformation is made, that is to recover the economic activity, the rights of the workers can also advance and is not seen evil. I believe that what we need to do is involve, that the Government of the Generality is taking on this commitment in relation to advancing the rights of workers and workers taking advantage of the tools of the new legal framework – riders, strengthening the labour inspectorate, labour reform, interprofessional minimum wage – which must help to advance, say, these years. From this point of view, therefore, we will vote in favour, yes. At the 7th we will vote in favour, whatever concerns us... we are in favour of the participation of local entities. We are concerned that the UPC abandons the participation of legitimate workers' representatives at the time of defining these strategies. It seems that the peppers, local entities must participate, but the workers have nothing to see. They surprise us. We would... we wouldn't vote against it, because we understand that it's okay, so, for local entities, but I want to bring it back, because we understand that they have forgotten who they are to be here, that they are also the workers, to defend their interests. On the new point we'll abstain, because we don't share it. Because we don't fully share it. Because I think it's better the law made by the Government of Catalonia, that it's not the law of the legal system of the State at the time of talking about cooperation agreements between the Education Administration and local corporations. That's why we're going to abstain. And I just want to end up with a reference to Bertolt Brecht, huh? It was 124 years ago that Bertolt Brecht was born and it is worth it that in relation to this subject and to some of the doubts that placed me this young man..., let me put some quotes from Bertolt Brecht, which I said..., in a poem that was against seduction: « Don't let yourself be fooled! / Life is too short. / To glops the need to engulf! / You won't have enough when you leave it! So don't let us fool ourselves and move from declaring it to purpose if we really want to transform reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.71.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.72.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I won't be able to start with the poetic level with what Mr Gallego has ended, or so... I'll actually comment on what was to be said about the motion, but thank you for those words, we share them. I think we have a problem to properly value this motive presented to us by the CUP. On the one hand, there are points of the same that are fully related to a certain willingness to improve the transparency of political action, which we share; but, on the other hand, we do not – and I think that in this, therefore, we can all agree – that the position of the CUP towards European policies and towards the European Union itself, therefore... they are more likely than to defend VOX or populism in Europe, than to defend liberal forces like ours. And, therefore, there is a whole series of wishes that are expressed here that make us think, as at least, that maybe these proposals that at least are not the best for Catalonia or the rest of Spain, and they are not the European model either. We believe that the Next Generation programme to address the economic and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic... and, in fact, the use of the European Union's debt capacity was of all necessity. I just didn't make myself clear if you..., Mrs. Regunant, think that this debt was necessary, if it were to be done, if it wasn't to be done and what we would do to return – all that is mutual, as has also been said here – this debt, or so, this reversal, and how it is to be reversed. And here, therefore, we take into account that if we overcome this, if we believe that he managed the funds, then, that they were assigned to Spain, that it is a twenty-i-five percent of the total of the Union..., we must consider whether these, whether he managed them in the most appropriate way or in the most appropriate way. We believe that no, that, in fact, no; but neither to Catalonia. In fact, here we have a whole series..., a rule of mismanagement, as it was also done in its moment with the programme of Youth Guarantee in Catalonia, which did not arrive in time and, in fact, we had to return to Europe in its moment. I believe that a good part of what has come to Catalonia and what is being managed by the State is not coming, not up to our product texture. We'll call the April of 2021. In fact, our MEP Luis Garicano, who, in fact, was part of the group of MEPs who worked together in the management, as in the design of these foundations, already warned. As was being implemented by Spain, the only one we could find were problems of this type. We believe, besides – and here we differ a lot from other proposals – that these foundations must go – and allow me to simplify – people, not things, and they must go to projects in the medium and long term, that end in some way implementing, or implementing themselves in the fabric, a change in the model produced and in the fabric produced. And here the companies have to participate, the peppers have to participate, especially the micro-enterprises and the autonomes. That is to say, we believe that these foundations, in order to set an example, should not go to rehabilitate buildings because they are more energetically efficient..., not only to this, but to form those that surely have to do so and, above all, to think about what will be done by those who make these rehabilitations when the money or the fund to make this type of change is coming to an end, right? Oh, come on, look over there. And, in this case, I believe that the proposals that they make from the UPC are in the antipodes and for me... I am always reminded more of a species of defense of the economic autoarchy and a certain product neoludism, that we obviously, therefore, will never share or share. And I've said it many times and I'm surprised, but it's always the same. So, that's exactly what we're asking... here, too, we talked about labor reform and we talked about it yesterday. What we are asking, in the end, is that these funds are managed more transparently and that they are more efficient, that they are vagrant where they should go, that they are actually vagrant to the product model. We believe that this young man does not exactly defend this, we do not believe that he defends – beyond what we share, which is transparency – freedom, as at least, that all Catalans can get there. Therefore, transparency, yes, but client networks, lords of the CUP, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.73.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. You see, I have to admit that you have some thanks for seeing a deeply anti-European formation talking about European foundations, don't you? But... I find this young man to be a rattlesnake; that is to say, we agree on a management closer to the foundations, on the part of the autonomous communities and also on the part of the municipalities, as you establish at one of their points of the young man. We share that today's conditions for financing autonomous projects... are too narrow and too restricted; that a more active participation of the municipalities in the management, because this ultimately results in greater efficiency and also promotes greater transparency in the distribution of these funds, which I understand is mostly what you are looking for. But they only speak, in their youth, of defending public servants and of not applying austerity policies. But forget that these European foundations are intended for the private sector. They don't talk about development, they don't talk about innovation, they don't talk about digital or business transformation. They only talk about expense, but they don't talk about reversal. And in the end, the reversal is what, in the long run, will increase public tickets that eventually end up in a few better public services. Therefore, without economic activity, without reversal and without growth it is not possible to finance good public services. And this is what we find missing in this young man. I'm already telling you that most of us would vote in favour of all the points of the motion, except... we would do some abstention or some vote against in one of the points where we find this lack, the reference to the private sector. Because in the end we come to the conclusion that if you govern the Government of the Generality, Catalonia does not have a single European foundation, because it seems that you have no intention of allocating these funds to the private sector, which is actually its objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.75.0	Thank you very much. And finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant once again takes the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.76.0	Well, thank you. Some things that have gone out..., and profiting, stretching from the thread that someone said was distilling, this young man, a communist Marxism, so I answer to the Lord of Ciutadans "what has happened? : bet for planning from intervention and nationalization of essential services. Therefore, prevent companies like Iberdrola, which provide an essential service such as energy, from sagging their annual accounts every year while cutting the light to vulnerable families. So simple. And please stop confusing what it is not to share the construction of the European Union with being anti-European. We defend Europe from peoples, from solidarity and internationalism, from the will to respect the rights of all. And this is the Europe we want to build. They don't deliberately confound things and, therefore, do no demagogic work. With regard to who was criticising the part..., or they say that it was a criticism of the Spanish Government for its management: well, it is that it is mismanaging the European foundations; otherwise, why do they still have the royal decree that it was approved that it is processed as a bill of law to Congress, and they have spent months and months and there is no willingness to debate the issues, many of them presented by civil society, that what is sought is more transparency and ability to tax? Yes, the State is managing with lack of transparency and lack of participation, and that's why we've accepted some issues that specify it more than we do in relation to this. This is a central element. And the other: public-private collaboration. Let us not force or transform the economy, let us not bet on an ecological transition with green capitalism and the green washing of big businesses, which the only one seeking is to gain benefits in order to continue doing the same. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.77.0	After the debate, we'll vote on this once we finish the session at noon. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the reform of public administration]] [[302-00091/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, the twenty-first item on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the reform of public administration, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left introduced. She has the word, to expose her, Mrs.Jordina Freixanet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.78.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. The Catalan public administration will be propens, simplified, digitised and decentralised or not. The Catalan public administration will be republican or not. With these statements today, from the Republican group, we present this motion to reform and modernise the Public Administration, so that we can face the great challenges that come to us. A young man who, with all the humility but also with all the conviction, seeks to accompany the Government to end an overly bureaucratic and poorly functional administration. We need a more flexible administration, which generates the maximum confidence in the citizenry and responds to the current challenges; always thinking of the citizens, to facilitate their lives, and also the workers of the Administration, to improve their conditions. As already pointed out in the inquiry, we have as the assignment hang a model of administration that puts people and their rights in the center. Of course everyone shares with me what this administration, which we have now, needs a modernization, and we want to accompany the government to push the four transformations forward. To govern a city, to govern a country, implies responsibility and willful transformation. And from the Republican Left we want to lead the transformation of the public sector. Why? Because we want transparent, ethical and clean institutions; because we want to leave behind steps in which public administration was all but silence, mistrust, irresponsibility or opacity. That's why we're presenting two points to this young man. The first calls on the Government of the Generality to modernise the Catalan public administration and promote its reform, making it agile, efficient, transparent, pro-active, inclusive and innovative, built on a model of public servers compromised with society and citizens, thus generating full confidence in citizens and in the political performance and democratic quality of institutions. They are embedded, in this first point, seven subpoints, which I will briefly explain to them. Simplification and functionality; citizen care and participation in decision-making; data governance; public services for all and that do not leave anyone behind; public employment law of the country; new law of public administration school; good governance; public ethics and integrity. And they have added three more, the fruit of the papers, which I will leave to the deputy who has girls who tell them, that in any case they improve and enrich the youth, and, therefore, thank you for making these contributions. In this first distance we must emphasize as first point transparency. We believe that it must be an indispensable condition of this transformation of the Administration, which must also allow access to all information, empowering citizen participation. We also want to highlight the need to rethink the administration of each municipality, a model suitable for all Catalonia, always having the territorial balance, but also the diversity. We know that we move forward when we put people's lives at the center, and that putting life at the center is to put the general interest and the common good in it, and to keep in mind that we want a good public service all over Catalonia, viscose where they viscose. Therefore, we must seek common services in order to avoid duplication, in keeping with the uniqueness of each territory and to ensure the accessibility of public services in the context of the citizenry. We also want to point out that one of the main challenges of this mandate is to work with a model that is good for public service in Catalonia, and that is why the young man is also asking us. It urges the Government to make public policies generated through intelligence and debate, the democratization of decisions, leaving a management model to stand in the way of a professionalised public leadership model, and reiterating the need to keep the ethics per flag, and thus to deploy the code of public service of Catalonia and the renewal of the Committee of Public Ethics Adviser. And in the second point urges the administration of this chamber to continue modernizing itself. With responsibility and consistency, the Republican Left also wants to accompany Parliament in this transformation, with all the recognition of the workers of Parliament and of its great task, as it cannot be otherwise. I already told them in the inquiry that the public servers and servers are the necessary spearhead for this modernization and deserve all of our recognition. In short, in reply I will comment on the position of all the items of all of you, but thank you for the good disposition of the political parties that have made papers and also the proposal, which have also helped to build this place in which we are, sense of doubt, that it is a very relevant issue, a country issue, and therefore any look at it helps us to improve it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.79.0	Thank you very much. To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.80.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor – thank you for being there. To thank the honourable Member for her work ability to present this young man, but also for her ability and willingness to build a consensus around the final young man's motion, huh? I think it's this ability to sew the consensus with the PSC, with the CUP, with us and themselves, right? , evidence that Catalonia is also possible a fresher policy, a policy different from that we are sometimes installed. We'll vote yes to all and each of the points of the motion, because we need to improve the Catalan Public Administration, huh? because public administration and public services is what the people have, what the normal people have, what the common people have to guarantee their rights to be equal before the law. A bad public administration is a bad service to the city and to the citizen, it is a bad service to the people; it causes problems to the people. That is why we need an agile, transparent, pro-active, inclusive administration as the motion stands. We need to simplify, open, make accessible, decentralize those issues that I believe fit well and clearly the motion, and therefore, say so, this bet for a law of public occupation that hinges on the stability and working conditions, that takes advantage of the experience. We believe that the motion complements well, say, this definition of how we need to move forward in order to change and improve public administration to make it truly more useful to the needy of the citizenry, as they do, say, their rights. We've submitted two papers. A simple first of writing, basically because what we want is to modernise the Catalan Public Administration; not to make a Catalan model, but we want the Catalan Public Administration to remain modern and have an agile, simplified and such model. It's writing, but I think we agreed right away. And the second, important – it has collected, I think this is important – that it is this recognition to the participation of the workers in the changes, and to adapt, obviously, the conditions of work, in particular the formation that they need in working hours in order to be able to adapt to the change. You're important. I'd say this is a classic, but it's true. Hardly changes in the world of work, followed by public administration, followed by business, can be done without the participation of workers, from the established mechanisms and the ways in which they articulate their participation. It's okay for the lady to pick it up. Therefore, we thank the honourable Member who has included us. Therefore, we will vote in favour of all points because we agree, because, precisely, the agreement on the content of the motion is where the criticism of the reality of the Catalan Public Administration that we have today is evident. Because, of course, we are for a young man with whom we want to improve the Catalan Public Administration, and we would not improve something that is already good; we want to improve something that is not good. And, therefore, it is worth recognizing that today the Catalan Public Administration is not well. And not because of the problems of workers and workers, but because of problems of many years ago, of a management of the Catalan public administration that is somewhat helpful to the interests of the citizenry and the people who are helpful to the interests of the political parties, which have sometimes been thought that the public administration is partisan and is not really public, or still, of the citizenry. Three problems I would like to place that will need to be addressed when we speak of better public administration. One is the sufficiency of seedlings to do the services and administration that people need. If we located the average public employment rates in relation to the population in the European Union, we would need 300,000 more public employees in Catalonia today, simply to position ourselves in the middle of what the countries of the European Union are today. Today Catalonia is the least employees and public employees of the group of autonomous communities of the State, which are certainly also very much below the European average. We have a problem with seedlings, size of jobs and public employees to serve and meet the needs that exist. We have a problem of professionalism, professionalization of the Catalan Public Administration. We must clearly limit the names of supporters, these digital ones, these eventual ones, which ultimately lack professionalism and will, the ability of professional promotion that employees and public employees must have. They see that the only opportunity for promotion is through partisanship and not professionally. That limits it. This has been changed in Europe for years; we have to put it here. And lastly, I believe that there is one element that we will also have to address one day or another, that is the need to protect employees and public employees who want to report cases of corruption, whether flagrant or not, that they see in the exercise of their pocket. That they can report when they see practical evils, that they can report and that they are protected by the law, because that is important to be able to guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.81.0	Then and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.82.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, MPs Freixanet, with this motion we certainly have one of the clearest challenges or opportunities we have, the most important we have in the Catalan Public Administration, and in this case, therefore, it is the reform, the best, the modernization of the Public Administration. And this involves pushing for reform; a reform, therefore, which for many years we have certainly not talked much about, but we have not been able to do so either. And it is so important to push for reform as well as to know that the words between this reform must have a content. And, therefore, we are talking about a reform of the Administration that must be able to think about the current situation: with the Digital Administration; with a digital administration that, in this case, offers many opportunities, but also offers, in this case, many problems. We see, today, that we in the Public Administration have to be able to deal, in this case, with digital attention and it's the twenty-four hours open– we see it from the joints until the General Administration – but we also have to get everyone to really have access, know and know how to do it. We have an example in front of us in the private sphere that we have really seen how bad it goes. We have seen, in this case, the way in which certain banking entities have been made, which have left many people, in this case, without need and without access to it. We can't afford this in the Administration. Therefore, we need to make a digital administration that, in this case, is really useful to people, that we can actually make an assessment of public service. We have to think that, at these times, in the Administration of the Generality we have approximately 175,000 people working in the public office, of which approximately sixty_per_cent are going to work. In this sense, we must highlight the great work, the great professionalism of the vast majority also of the public service, but we must work to be able to enjoy it even more. And to be prestigious means to be able to evaluate it and to be able to try to work because the work well done also has its visibility and its reward. But not all public service workers need to do their job as well. There are also, in this case, that they do not do their job well and label and mislead the professionalism of many and many people who make a big pocket from public office. We've all seen and we've always heard the people come, the funny thing is that when you get to the next meeting, when you get to the generality, you find the thing closed, it doesn't work, they tell you to come back tomorrow. These jokes we've always heard. And what we have to do is demonstrate in the country's joint venture that the public service enjoys a great professionalism of many and many people who offer a great service, a great public service, and this is where we need to put the accent of the pocket. And it's right here where I call this young lady, a model of public administration that connects with the people and puts the city in the center. In this case, let's not say, the person who lends it or the collectors, but work really because the work of all folds serves so that the city, in the center, can have a very good service at the time of being able to work from the Administration. And how can we do that? We have to do this from the side of the General Administration, from the Parliament, and we will also have to extend it to the local administrations, etc. But in this case, and as we have seen, so we have made some deures that we also have to do from the Administration of the Generality, and we also have to do from the Parliament of Catalonia and, in this case, also as it is working, and we have been at this point 2. Examples, too, of transparency at the time of wanting to lay the pocket to the citizen, and, in this case, would also like to highlight the hearings, for example, of the President of Parliament, which are given to know in the conjunction of political formations so that we also know, in this case, the concern of the citizenry, in order to be able to move it, to turn it into answers. You are also a fan of the Administration, such as the approval, for example, of the sexual, psychological, and psychological plan, because we can just keep all the tools to make it possible. And when we talk about them – we also talk about them in some of the papers in this young man – I mean laws; I mean laws that have to go forward, like the law of public occupation, the law of local finance, or the law, in this case, of public office, as we say. Therefore, all this is what must be given to us, and it must be that we must urge all the people to make this leap, that surely, let us say, we have a hard hair and that must serve us, as we say, to put people in the center, to gain efficiency, to value the people who work well and power, so, in this case, to achieve a prestigious public function and to the people's service. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.83.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, has the word Mrs Marta Moreta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.84.0	Thank you, President. After Congressman Saldoni, who's so tall... I have to lower him down because, if not, he wouldn't make it, huh? We agree, Mrs Freixanet, that today's democratic society requires profound changes that allow us to move forward in the development and social, green and equal transformation that Europe needs. It is essential, therefore, that from this Parliament we look at the great challenges ahead of the approval of the Statute of Catalonia in order to build a result-oriented administration which, at the same time, ensures the rules of the state of law, and the ability to attract talent, and which preserves, at the same time, equal opportunities. The development of our public sector must enable us to adapt the principles of current functioning, which are sometimes closed, uniform, rigid, in order not to open to public organizations that are more adaptable to our current reality and to our territories, too. Entering the office already, Mrs. Freixanet, knows that we have made various statements that we believe would improve the initial office and that the majority have accepted them or we have traded. Especially relevant is the point we have made about the compromise that during this parliamentary term a new system of local financing is being introduced by means of a new Catalan law of local heritage, also provided for in the Statute, and a new law of local governments, essential for a profound reform of the modernization of public administration. I will also have a moment in the second point of this motion, which literally says: "The Parliament of Catalonia is also committed to continuing to work in the reform of its own administration and rules of internal government in order to meet the criteria of exemplaryness, efficiency, transparency and serve citizens. Member, do you know what the last report from the Gothenburg Institute of Governance Quality says, that it is a European referent for the diagnosis of the quality of governance of our institutions? So say, no more or less, that Catalonia occupies the last place in the quest for the transparency perception of all of Spain. Catalonia is located in the last place. So I think we still have a lot to do. It would be wise to avoid great grand declarations, because the reality then teaches us cruelly where we are. We are careful not to fall into this self-completion that we speak of criteria of exemplarity, efficiency and transparency. Better – better – leave us with protagonists and adopt concrete adventures that citizens value as real. Let 'em comment on another aspect related to the efficiency that you comment on. 2005 published the Llibre blanc de la fonction publique, in charge of the Department of Governance of the Government of Catalonia. This document wanted to reflect objectively the pathologies of public function, identify which were the main shortcomings, and explain the causes of them. From this book there was also a prognostic of the future and there were concrete objectives and proposals for action that took shape in some recommendations, with the main objective, above all, of a model suitable for public function. Unfortunately, said years later, the government has not brought it to an end. We have to say that who coordinated this white book in 2005 is now the Secretary of Administration and Public Service of the Office of the President of the Generality, Mr. Joan Jaume Oms. They will understand that it is advisable to temper some of the phrases that the young man told, meaning doubtful – it is obvious – attractive. If we all know that 2005 was already part of the White Paper and, even more so, if we put them back here as if they were a novelty, I think we're not going too well. Because, beyond what's done in this young man, now that the young man is here, we should be a little more careful about how we do and how we present the commitments, with these precedents that I have just explained. Our parliamentary group will extend its hand to work on rapeseed rape on this issue. That's right, they act with exemplaryness, with efficiency and above all with transparency, and they'll keep us side by side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.85.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Member of the House of Representatives Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. This is a motion we would like to vote in favour, which I would like to thank for the willingness to accept papers and compromise; Mrs Freixanet, thank you very much. A motion that points to a broad theme that will need to be deepened and implemented much more: modernising the functioning of public administrations so that they are much more agile and effective at the time of giving service to citizens, both in their administered procedures and in the forms of public policy approaches and in relation to citizens – with all citizens – without leaving anyone behind – without leaving anyone else at all – and guaranteeing work quality to their workers and workers. We, the ideas we have presented what they have sought are to deepen above all in the part of the relationship between Administration and people, and life, because life is cross-cutting, but Administration is not. The cycles of community life work for courses that normally start late; those of the Administration for natural years, and between disembarkation and generation all end up. The action plans for social and cultural movements and initiatives are strategically planned in extended periods; the support plans for administration, in narrow periods. Subsidy systems with uncomplicated bureaucratic periods, which generally pre-characterize and complicate the lives of thousands of entities and professional sectors. The vital problems of times require immediate resolution; administration is slow and bean. You could go on. It's hard not to make a thing of what happens to Badalona, with an administration that already pays providers at 260 days– 260 days. The other day, when the president visited the city, my opposition group companions gave him a letter asking him that the generality guarded the assembly as hard as the blockade of this city. Not all municipalities get the same way. Here, obviously, there is a heaviness that has caused the fellow together not to want to modernize, the own political team, but they are general, the problems that have many joints, many administrations, in order to be able to work. Edgar Straehle, researcher at the University of Barcelona..., he distinguishes from... I like to use the word "bureaucratic rape in general, for this relationship that the Administration of excessive bureaucracy has in time to relate to the citizenry. He says no, what bureaucratic rape itself must be used to precisely define the bureaucratic springs that embolize, disable and disincentive the capdavall all form of protest, incorporate politics, or bureaurepression as an active strategy that uses bureaucratic mechanisms to limit the use of public space. I, frankly, see the bureaucratic periples that vulnerable people have to make to access the Emergence Table, for example, or a lot of food to put a dish on the table... The concept of bureaucratic violence seems to be very timely today. This excessive red tape of life and administration processes is constant. I think we have a 19th-century administration in a 21st-century company. I just need to see the bureaucratic workload of the workers and social workers, who often have a few hours of direct attention. Certainly, I would like to say that, at the last meeting they have held for the programme contract, Ishi have given some terms that cannot be fulfilled either. We are trapped in this terany of the terms of the bureaucracy, and this is essential, it is urgent to resolve it. Therefore, we vote for this motion. We believe that there is still a lot of work to be done, a lot of work on this impulse of the nine laws of public office. It will be necessary to listen to all sectors, especially workers and workers, and above all it will be necessary that these changes, which are profound, which must be done, support the impositions of the Spanish legislative framework. We need to move forward in the appropriate cent_per_cent mark, as well as in the joints. Therefore, in this legislative framework that supports the state's impositions, you will find us working on rapeseed rape to make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.87.0	After the defense of the papers presented, has the word now, to fix his position, the deputy of the Parliamentary Group VOX Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.88.0	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Let's talk about this motion on public administration reform. And let us first look at what the current legislation on public administration says. Then we will see what they propose to us in this motion, and in the end we will make some conclusions. All right. Article 103 of the Spanish Constitution states, at its first point: "The public administration serves the general interests objectively and acts in accordance with the principles of efficiency, hierarchy, decentralization, deconcentration and coordination, with full compliance with the law and the law. For its part, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia states in its article 71, entitled "General provisions and principles of organization and operation..., in its point 2 says: "The Administration of the Generalitat serves with objectivity the general interests and acts with full submission to the laws and the law. Also in the same article, article 71, paragraph 3, states: "The Generalitat Administration acts in accordance with the principles of coordination and cross-cutting in order to ensure the integration of public policies. And point 5 of the aforementioned article: "The Administration of the Generalitat exercises its functions in the territory in accordance with the principles of deconcentration and decentralization. If we compare the two rules – Spanish Constitution, Statute of autonomy of Catalonia – we see that almost all concepts refer..., when described by the Public Administration: « objectivity, « general interests, « effectiveness, « hierarchy, « decentralization, « deconcentration, « coordination, « full submission to the law and to the law. Let us now turn to the content of the motion submitted by Esquerra Republicana, which bears the title "On the reform of the public administration – the same name. And here we see that the motion, well, does not have a specific content, makes quite generic statements of intentions. But the important part of the motion is its initial part, the explanatory statement, which I am going to read: "The Catalan Parliament considers it essential that the public administration be thoroughly reformed and modernised in order to be able to face the great challenges ahead with a clear will for change and a firm commitment to the social, green, democratic and feminist transformation of Catalonia. If this is not enough, in the initial presentation made to us by the lady who presented the motion – I think I have taken the note well – she tells us: "The Catalan public administration will be republican or will not be. Well, obviously, it won't be republican, that's obvious, huh? But they have forgotten that the Administration is of all, it is at the service of all citizens; it is of all and for all. Finally, several rapporteurs have also made criticisms of the current administration. Finally, we are skeptical of some of the criticisms they have made, and also of, finally, some things regarding the public servants that I believe they did not proceed. Well, I keep going. We compare this motion with the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy and we see that there are..., well, there is no agreement between the ideas mentioned. While the Constitution and the Statute speak of objectivity, general interests, coordination, submission to the law, the Republican Left motion speaks of social, green, democratic and feminist transformation. What is the reason for this change? Well, if we see the government plan approved by the Government of the Generalitat on September 21, it is literally copied into the Republican Left motion. This motion seeks that the Public Administration of Catalonia be at the service of the ideological postulates of nationalism, it will no longer serve with objectivity the general interests, but the ideological objectives of nationalism. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we defend the neutrality of the Administration, which must be at the service of all citizens, even those who have not voted for Republican Left or Junts, who are the signatories of the agreement. If the public administration is reformed it must be to strengthen its technical character and to make a strong bet on the use of new technologies – some other speaker has also said – but not to subject it to party ideological principles. And in Catalonia, in addition, there is another much more urgent reform: the number of public sector institutions, or chiringuitos, and high offices that continue to grow and that continue to parasitize the public arks of the Generalitat, must be drastically reduced. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.89.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.90.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillor... He presents us, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, a motion to improve the Catalan Public Administration and begins by saying that either we bring or go to this or the Catalan Public Administration will not be. For now, it won't be. For now, it's not or it hasn't. As we recall, they have been ruling Catalonia for some years and influencing the governments of Catalonia, as at least after the last tripartite. I believe that since 2012 they have been able, working and working with assumptions the modifications and the best of the Catalan Administration And we're very skeptical with this young man. First, because it's always enough for us that a group that's supporting the government and that's actually the government, that's the government, tell us what it wants to do. So look, let's start doing it. If that's not our concern. If you bring a letter here to the King Mags, but the King Mags are you. Or, at the end of the day, all of this by turning back to the same thing I think is a problem of coherence, many times. In the end they saw a good administration manual and brought us what this good administration manual gave us. And for us, therefore, well, yes, many of the proposals that are made here on a voluntary basis, that we have defended as our group, and certainly many of the groups that are in this chamber during the last legislative period, and that have approved themselves in motions in this Parliament at different times, have not been implemented, are not implemented. Here we have the first of the mistakes in the policy that we do in this Parliament: we approve things that will not be implemented later. And then we'll have another seat in the next legislature, and we'll do the same thing again, which he won't do either. Therefore, we are skeptical and cannot vote against many of these points and, therefore, we, in some of them or in the majority, therefore, what we would do is abstain. Nor will we block it, obviously; that good part of the expressions that are here of modernization of the Catalan administrative and public reality, therefore, is obvious. There are some claims that the participation of employees and public employees in the reform and modernization of the Catalan Administration is guaranteed and that their representatives, in the case of legally established months of negotiation, may participate and may find themselves, in fact, with the Government, and that they may participate in their design. I also remind you that the former advisor who was dedicated to public administration, therefore, did not go to meetings at the negotiating table; so... Or go on, that you, therefore, can make these statements right now, but have not completed them for many years. Why, of course, what has Catalonia done or what have the governments of Catalonia done in the last two years here? How have they treated public service, how have they treated public administration? There hasn't been..., or there hasn't been or there haven't been any transport contests in the last two years – there hasn't been. Looking now at the 2017 public offer – five years later – is what is happening now. We're not talking about the details that were produced, which were the most important – and I'm talking about the last two years; and I'm talking about how it was done, or so, why it hasn't been the Administration we want –; the details in themes of all kinds, both in economic rights and in workers' social rights the last few years. We have a temporality close to forty per cent, if we don't count from this forty per cent..., and we carry things, like the Mosses or Bombers, where there can be no temporality. Therefore, forty per cent of the time within our Administration, and this is not touching or not looking. The last couple of years we've arrived, because the job hasn't been done... Counselor, if I don't tell him I don't think they can or want to, but we're skeptical about it, and this is the situation we find ourselves in. The continuous formation of the functionaries has been abandoned, or has been abandoned, because it is not updated or its training catalog has been outdated. The School of Public Administration has focused on training, sometimes, because other times it has been used for policy purposes. I remember, he makes a couple of legislatures, why exactly the School of Public Administration was used: to form directius, many times. Therefore, we have a situation..., we are no longer talking, obviously, about how public buildings have been used, the lack of political neutrality in themselves, the lack of transparency, the feeling of lack of transparency that citizens have. So, we have a complex situation that they want to reverse now, but, I say again, I hope they change the way a lot, because the way the last two years has been bad and a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.91.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.92.0	Thank you very much, President. See, here, Republican Left brings us today a young man who in the background is a list of great headlines and continues to be a toast to the sun. I have no doubt that today you will have an approval of this young man with a large majority of the points approved for unanimity. But, of course, Esquerra is in government. So, I'd tell you that less speeches and more action, maybe everyone would appreciate it a lot more. There are two things that have surprised me about this young man. One is that they tell us that they want to turn Administration into more social, green, democratic and feminist. Many concepts that are fashionable, that are very good, but I don't know whether the subconscious brings them or not. Because, of course, wanting to turn administration into democracy is like recognizing that it isn't today, is it? , and that you may have a lack of democracy problem. It would be good if you were like that, if you recognized him. But don't be fooled, the city that really wants is a less oversized administration, a closer administration, and a more ethical and more taxing administration, because, of course, we go to a time of one scandal per week. Last week it was the fire department, and this week it's the overpayments and overpayments in the contracts from the covid-19. The other point that surprised me is already at the end of the day, we are told that they are committed to approving during this legislature the new Catalan law of local heritage and the new law of local governments. I'm telling you, they're going to vote for us, so good. But it's, of course, that's what they've been promising since the year 2010, and we're at 2022. As I say, fewer speeches and more action. In any case, we will practically vote in favour – except for some point where we will abstain – in this case, we will give you support, and encourage you to step out of Parliament's seat and end up at the table of government, and that actually you have a move to the new regulation that you can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.93.0	Thank you very much. And finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs.Jordina Freixanet once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.94.0	Well, thank you very much. In these two minutes I'll just try to give them three key ideas. The first, which is left with the three key concepts of what this young man carries. We work for a friendly, accessible, simplified and digitalized, participatory and decentralized administration. The second, give the thanks back to the group for their contributions. This young man has rejected sixteen items from four different groups, of which fifteen have been accepted, traded and incorporated. And this shows, for one thing, that it is an issue that interests and that everyone seeks to contribute-there, contribute-there, improve, and each of the words is a new look embedded in this new Administration that we want to build folds. Therefore, thank you, Mr Gallego, for your words of recognition to the workers, professionalization, denunciation of the wrong practices, where I remind you that the Administration of Catalonia has also been a pioneer in the ethical busts. Deputy Saldoni, who has focused on the topic of digital administration and prestige and evaluation of public administration; totally agree. Congresswoman Moreta, who tells us about the open and result-oriented administration; there is complete agreement. And he's asking us for rigour. I'll buy it, Mrs. Moreta. You've been talking to Councilwoman Vilagrà all day, asking her to build a council of local governments. So it's not even a year ago that she's going to advise and she's getting the machine at four thousand percent because things are bad vaginas. And yes, sometimes the words have to be accompanied with facts, but in this Parliament it is up to us to talk, debate and do the possible things so that they arrive in other places. And to Congresswoman Sabater, to deepen much more, who asked us to deepen much more, let no one go back..., did this emphasis and set us the example of Badalona. So look, I'm also Lleida's registrar, and the first month we got that the payments that were due over the course of two months, these suppliers that you said, are passed to six, and at these times we're at thirty days, as the regulations state, and, therefore, the Republican governance is also demonstrated when we are there. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Well, I liked to finish and answer the rest, but in any case, thanks to everyone to make it possible, especially those who would support us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.95.0	So we're done with the debate, we'll also vote for this young man this afternoon, just when the next item on the agenda is over, the twenty-and-nove, the motion following the question to the government about the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[302-00092/13]] And he has the word, to make the young man's presentation, the deputy Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies, well, in the first place, thank the papers presented to the motion. We've accepted the PSC and the Republican Left. You know that the Mediterranean Corridor was approved the year 2013 to the European Parliament and the European Council in the map of railway priorities of the European Union for the transport of goods. An anecdote. It is said that the year 2013 Spain voted against the map – 2013. We do not know for sure, because the European Council in transparency was very short, but let's say that the map of Aznar of 2003 that imposed the single Iberian peninsula - Europe for the Aragonese Pyrenees, marginalizing the Basque, Catalan and Valencian ports, Spain showed the vote against here. But in any case, let's celebrate that 2013 was approved by the broker. Already the European Commission in 2011 had shown and made studies said: « I can correct that map of 2003. We cannot marginalize ports that move large export volumes and large volumes to fill large trains. So, therefore, it was celebrated this dream of the radial Spain that imposed Europe, it was celebrated throughout Catalonia. In 2011 the Parliament of Catalonia unanimously approved a motion in favour of the Mediterranean Corridor. And that's important: for the sake of unanimity. Even Ciutadans voted for it and, therefore, it's very good news. I opened a pot of cava at home that day, because the most expensive thing about an infrastructure is... a band, it costs to do it, because it's worth money and time, but the most expensive thing is to win the social consensus provided for the need to do it. For many years now, it has been decades since that consensus was won in Catalonia. And, therefore, the reason they have to vote today is practically identical to what we did two years ago. It's been two years and we're where we are, but in any case, we also hope today that all the groups in the chamber will vote for it. I think the best message we can give to the Spanish State and the European Union is that the Catalonian Parliament is once again voting for a motion in favour of the Mediterranean Corridor, and we hope that we will not have to do any more in the next couple of years – we would like it – if we were to resolve it. We cannot waste more time reducing the cost of transporting businesses to Catalonia. Because, as you know, rail transport is cheaper than truck transport. And even less, we can't waste more time pulling polluting trucks from our highways, and that's why we agree with the reviews in this sense. The Mediterranean is one of the most fragile areas of the world in the climate change. From the European Union, future sanctions can come to traffic on the way to goods. And things that I start to feel when you talk to exporters: there is a growing demand on the part of the goods importers for what is the carbon footprint of that commodity or that good in the path from the factory to the final destination. And we can find that there are outside customers who tell us: « Is this merchandise on its way? So it's contaminating. That's... we can find each other. And, therefore, the warmest is in the water, right? And, in this sense, I recognize that the current Spanish government, therefore, is investing in the Mediterranean Corridor. And I put that in value, when I was a counselor. Last book I did, I explicitly recognize it. The one that passes, which, of course, in Catalonia we are making a third thread that is no more than the world – does not pass to Madrid, does not pass to Paris, does not pass to Germany, Italy or the United States – that the rhael and the merchandise share traffic. More than a king, because there's already a hundred and seven hundred trains a day in Rodalies at Baix Llobregat. One-way maximum capacity is two-hundred trains. And, for example, a train loaded with Castelló rajoles weighs more and wears down the road than a train loaded with cars. The maintenance will be very much because and the leading experts, like Joan Amorós, tell us that there may be problems due to excessive road wear; then, of course, that road has to end two days, and we may have problems. And, therefore, this is a temporary, short-term solution that will allow it to reach large Catalan companies, such as SEAT, which has been asking for this connection to save resources, but it is still the warmest one. Joan Amorós, recognized internationally, contracted for the European Commission, invited for the main European railway companies, such as Deutsche Bahn or SNCF in Brussels, to make conferences, says: "We have not resolved in a definitive way as there are dead goods and Rodalies in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. So, so, let's listen to the experts, let's go with them. So much so that we can make effective progress in the resolution of this case. And so much good today also the Parliament of Catalonia can unanimously claim the train that we need. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.97.0	Thank you very much. Now has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.98.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, MPs, MP Tremosa, the Commission of the Mediterranean Corridor appointed for the Government of Spain, Josep Vicente Boira, has said many times that the Corridor is the Via Augusta of the 21st century. I think it's a very serious statement, don't I? I listened very carefully to the answer that Vice-President Puignero gave to Congressman Tremosa in this request for an inquiry in respect of the Mediterranean Corridor. And that, listening to the answers, obliges me to refresh the memory of all the deputies, if not correct some statements that are already common in the argumentary to create some confusion respect the positions of the governments of Spain; that is, to say, to what they say: "The governments of Spain are always the same. Look, it's true that Congressman Tremosa said that at the time of President Aznar's government, the People's Party did not ask the European Union to include the Mediterranean Corridor in the planning of strategic infrastructure; it bet on a central corridor, following the usual radial pattern. But also as true as this is that on March 16, 2011, precisely here in Barcelona, Minister José Blanco, of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, presided over a meeting where there were the governments of Andalusia, Murcia, Valencia, co-chaired by President Mas, where he presented the technical study of the Mediterranean Corridor, which helped the European Union incorporate the corridor into its strategic infrastructures in 2013. Socialists have always been in favour of the Mediterranean Corridor. In fact, if they went through the papers of the alternate government of President Pasqual Maragall, when he was in opposition, he was already defending this infrastructure that had been promoted since the government of Catalonia by Councillor Joaquim Nadal. Vice-President Puigneró told us in the inquiry... In fact, I don't know who prepared the papers, Vice-President, I think the same person who had to prepare President Puigdemont and MEP Comín, because they asked the same question with the same mistake to the European Parliament. Fifteen days ago, and it was so wide, that only EUR 12 million of the assumption was executed, and it claimed, in the past, that it was not a priority of the current Government of Spain. Certainly, the mistake..., they were wrong to start, because these 12_millions correspond to the expenditure made in which it refers to studies and projects. Miri, a few figures to precisely frame this priority of the Government of Spain respects the Mediterranean Corridor. I can't give him the consolidated 2021 figures, because the settlement isn't done yet, is it? Since June 2018 – June 2018, because it is when President Pedro Sánchez accedes to the presidency of the Government of Spain –, there have been performances in the corridor of 1,193_million euros, of which 450_million euros have been made in Catalonia; it is said, one_euro out of three investments since June 2018 has been invested in Catalonia. As for tenders, from June 2018 there were tenders worth 3,317 million euros, of which 889 correspond to Catalonia; that is, a twenty-i-set_per_cent. Therefore, the effort in these three years has been, from my point of view, colossal, increasing the average execution of the investment both in the corridor and in the conventional network – which today does not give me time to review the figures, but the day that you can also talk about it – and work in parallel, to draft and approve projects to be able to bid and achieve the final objective, which is to complete the execution of the investment. You also know that the Castelló-Vandellòs tram has already awarded itself the large standard. They also know or should know that the Costa Blanca tunnel of the Castellbisbal-Martorell tram is about to end, which will allow the goods to enter the heart of Europe without stopping at the French border. In short, not so much for the sake of motion, that we will vote for it, but for the intervention sometimes made by Junts' spokespersons for Catalonia, we come to the conclusion that what bothers them is that the Government of Spain, the current Government of Spain..., infrastructure in Catalonia, for this Government, remain priorities. In fact, it bothers them, and a lot, that they advance in solving problems; it bothers them the dialog between both governments, because what this dialog does is to destroy their political strategy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.99.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Ferran Estruch has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.100.0	President, Vice-President, deputies and deputies, very good day. Obviously, we will vote in favour of this motion presented for the companies of Junts and for the deputy Tremosa. Just tell Congressman Terrades that he talked about 2018. The Mediterranean Corridor has been planned for thirty-three years and has been running for twenty-five years. There have been nine ministers from the PSOE and the PP and six governments, and we're almost there, for what he does in Catalonia. And now, since 2018, we've put up a little bit of batteries, but we come from all this. And you... before President Pedro Sánchez, there were eight years of President Zapatero, and little we did in this sense. Therefore, it is good that they start now and start, two years ago, to put the batteries in the Mediterranean Corridor and above all in its step for Catalonia, which is a very important infrastructure for the productive economy of this country and for the citizenry. To say that we have presented a statement, agreed with Juntes, about a claim that we share and that we believe in the phonenal, that it is..., and that it gathers a lot of consensus, above all to the Camp of Tarragona and the rest of the coast on the way, that is to remove the dangerous goods from the nuclei, the centers, the urban nuclei, and concretely from Tarragona. We have an important problem, which is repeatedly explained by the Internal Market platform, and the area's branches and institutions demand it. And, therefore, this is an urgency – it is an urgency – and, in this sense, you know, the platform, the assemblies, the territories, which are at their side. We do not understand, in fact, this lack of common sense, that we continue with the idea of a third lane along the coast, where the passengers pass, and we do not plan and do and execute an alternate route for the goods, not only in Tarragona, but in the whole of the Mediterranean. But I'll also tell them that it's not strange, since it's very incongruent, that they hold and that... what I say, twenty-six years, isn't it? , twenty-six years that we carry prioritizing a radial model, a radial model in the high-speed state and abandoning Rodalies, and also to be said – also to be said. But it is also against European criteria. 2011 is the priority of the Mediterranean Corridor on the part of the European Union, but we continue to do the same, Spain continues to do the same: inverting a little, prioritizing the radial system and making what is known as square kilometers of Iberian and non-international streets, which is what allows us to connect with Europe. And I don't understand that only we, Spain and Russia, follow those who have this fever, let's say, of deconstruction of a system that doesn't connect us to the Mediterranean Corridor's network to Europe. So, surprise all folded. So, I tell them we're too late, we're 20 years late. As I said, many ministers, ministers of all colors. And we're worried about each other. And we are more concerned than anything else, because in this aspect of the Mediterranean Corridor there has always been consensus in this Parliament, consensus not only among the political forces, as said the company Tremosa, but also with the institutions and the territories; the territories not only of Catalonia, but also with the companies of Valencia and also of Murcia and Andalusia. And it's not happening. Something, some political intent because there is no such infrastructure. That it connects all the capitals of the Spanish State with Madrid, but the Mediterranean Corridor, that it is a territory that represents forty-five_per_cent of the GDP and forty-sis_per_cent of the value added, of the value added gross industrial value added, and that it represents sixty_per_cent of the exports and imports..., there is no such vital infrastructure for the economy and the citizens of this country, the truth is that it does not. I, therefore, lay down there. No more toilets, I think I need to say things for his name, that things happen, that I can take back the Catalan agenda of the Mediterranean Corridor, the projects, the need, access to the port of Tarragona, the port of Barcelona, the Tarragona-Castelló tram, which is left of the hand of God, and many other projects that are still to be executed. We can't afford to waste more time. And they ask them, companies and companies of the PSC and also of the commons that pressure, together with the Government of the country, the institutions of Catalonia, to make it possible. Because we have to make things happen. If we do not complete, if they do not complete, what is already happening will pass: so that the citizenry every time thinks that it is necessary to build a state for it and not a state that is against us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.101.0	Thank you very much. And finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word Mr Andrés Bello, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.102.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, hello again. Well, let's talk about the Mediterranean Corridor. The Mediterranean Corridor, I think we all agree, is a great national project that plans to connect Algeciras with the French border through a railway line of great European capacity and width. And it is worth remembering the journey of the project, because in your motion you speak only of a stretch between Valencia and Catalonia Nord, although in the final version you have rectified it and now call it by its name: France. As a major national project, since VOX we have been firmly committed to its construction, and, in this line, our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies are doing a thorough follow-up of the project and urging the ministry to prioritise the construction of this infrastructure. Its construction and operation will mean an important improvement in the transport of goods by Spanish companies located in the Mediterranean arc, from Algeciras to the French border, as I have said, and, at the same time, will mean a cost saving, which has also been mentioned, of transport, and a decongestion in the traffic of trucks that are currently circulating on Spanish roads. Entering the content of the motion, the first thing they propose is to create a Catalan table of the Mediterranean Corridor. Does anyone believe that this will bring any improvement to the implementation of the project? Obviously it will not be so, and, as in many other cases, it will only serve to place others of its own in this new nationalist chiringuito. If you want to have better information about the Mediterranean Corridor, ask the Government of Spain, with whom their government partners have a very good relationship. Even right here, they just have to cross that corridor, and I think they can give you pretty good information on this side of the Chamber. [[Some applause.]] In fact, what would be preferable is for them to devote themselves to better managing their skills, rather than if they have a long way to go. Every day we are seeing examples of their disastrous management and the waste they have been doing with the public resources they manage. They also mention in their motion the shortage of investment in railway infrastructure in Neighborhoods, as opposed to the much higher investment that has been made in the AVE. Faced with this, we must say that they are different realities intended for different uses and are therefore not comparable. We believe, yes, that the Government of Spain must improve investment in railway infrastructure in nearby areas; also in Catalonia, of course. Let's make a little comment about the vicinity. There is a plan of Near Catalonia that foresees a railway investment of Near Catalonia of more than 6,000_million_of_euro. The coordinator of this plan, Mr Pere Macias, was in the process of being executed last week in order to inform us about the follow-up to this plan, but we have not heard it at least at the moment, because the President of this Parliament, as we have all seen, with the applause of the three separatist parties, decided to suspend parliamentary activity: a new act of the Vodevil in which you have turned Catalan politics. We have tabled three amendments to your motion, in some cases to delete what we consider unnecessary, and in others to stress the Spanish scope, not only Catalan, of this draft. We already imagined that they would not be well received or accepted by the proposing group, and, indeed, before that, he has confirmed it to us. He has confirmed it to us simply by not mentioning us – the usual. Finally, from the VOX Parliamentary Group, we support the construction of the Mediterranean Corridor in its entirety, from Algeciras to the French border, and we will urge the Government of Spain, from all possible levels, to its development and completion as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.103.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity, the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.104.0	Yes; president, deputies, deputies, good morning. Since the CUP we are in favor of the Mediterranean Corridor. We are in favour because it ends with the absolutely obsolete scheme of radial Spain, taking as the basis the ancient Via Augusta – here the novels are already passing – and it is a tool to fight the climate change, because eliminating long-distance trucks is a way to reduce the emissions of gases that cause the winter effect. We claim to leave the tourist monoculture, we also claim to bet on agriculture, reindustrialisation. And it is clear that this is why we need a sustainable transport system. In the imperialist view of the Spanish State, the Mediterranean Corridor has never been well and today we are still seeing the stars of this imperialist and irrational view in terms of planning, and we can reverse it. We are in favour of the Mediterranean Corridor, but not all that is to pose through the Mediterranean Corridor. It is very difficult to respond in a binary way to this motion in the terms in which it is laid down, and, therefore, in the great majority of points we will abstain, but we repeat that our position is favorable to the Mediterranean Corridor. We are also, of course, in favour of the whole of Europe, as it could not be in any other way. Now the very thing that happens to us is that we live alongside the European road network in consequence, as Geographer Adam Bonnín explains, of some decisions already taken in the 19th century. The Mediterranean Corridor is a railway shaft that must create all Europe, starting from the south of the peninsula and up to the border with Russia. And the development of this railway network is very important in Catalan countries. But it is clear that the high-speed line has to be, as always, consensual with the territory to know exactly where it has to go. And in this case, for example, in the lands of the Horta de València, there is now a very important struggle because precisely it is not destroyed territories. And the fight of the companies of the Horta de València obviously is also our fight. We are in favour of all this acting as a catalyst for all Rodalies spaces, already in València, Alacant, Camp de Tarragona, Girona or Barcelona. The corridor is a historical claim of railway vertebration of the Catalan Countries. The problem, as always, is of substance, of how the project is done, how it is drawn from the ministry's desks, whose sensitivities are taken into account. And that's not easy. And more so if it's added that we're a hundred and twenty years late and that we're already in the climate phase. As long as we're late, this infrastructure is fundamental and we don't want to give up focusing on this infrastructure. And we find a little bit of a young man at the time of claiming the territory's involvement, because in the background this young man is looking for is to do it now quickly because he needs businesses in terms of competitiveness and in terms of winnings. But here there are not only parameters that must be taken into account as competitive ones, here we also have to wage battles in terms of sovereignty. Do we have to limit ourselves to vetting for the execution of the ministry's project? We understand you don't. Aspiration must go further and have a clear impact on the project. Miri, Mr. Tremosa, a part of the left is a little reticent because he believes that this project will benefit above all entrepreneurs, and I tell him that, in the way this young man is written, it doesn't really help, does it? To reverse this idea of background, because this young man seems to have dictated it to them by the employer, as I have already advanced. We cannot present a motion, in our understanding, in which, on the Mediterranean Corridor, pose, without any complexity, that this is to benefit the great enterprises, and this pose it textually as you have gathered it to the motion. What you want to do to the Administration is a powerful and competitive railway network because it benefits everyone, the whole product fabric. And say it's for big business, so we don't agree on that. And, lastly, I would like to refer to the last point, that of facilitating the interlocution between the railway platform Goods for the Interior of Tarragona and the ministry, and we will vote in favour. We want to fill in the huge task that this platform is making to denounce the incongruity in railway planning that exists right now, where the goods are going along the coast, and that brings in a whole series of perils, and the travellers in the interior. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.105.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.106.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members of Parliament, well, as you know, one of the priorities of our Parliamentary Group in Comú We can this legislature is to be able to move forward in a serious transformation of mobility in our country to guarantee access to public transport, visquis on visquis and whatever your social condition is. And this we understand is happening, therefore, to make Catalonia a real country of trains. And in this context, therefore, the Mediterranean Corridor is for us a key piece. And it's certainly in the terms that are planted in this young man, huh? , with the need for the international width, with the need to bet for the transport of goods through the railway. The European media is divided_per_cent. We're in Spain at four percent, and we think we're going to have to come in at least thirty percent. To bet for the transport of goods by rail above all for a question of sustainability, obviously, of reducing emissions, but also to make of everything unnecessary infrastructures like the B-40. Mirin, I didn't have the opportunity to meet with the director general of reelers of the State, there, to the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, a very large building, which is known as the State, which is making decisions. I was going to convey to him, therefore, obviously, the position of our parliamentary group against the B-40. And that man, very nice, socialist, engineer, right? , em diu: "Look, I want the tomatoes to go from Almería to France without the trucks collapsing in the B-30 and that's why the B-40, the Quarturó, is needed. Of course, you say: « Home, it seems to me a little old. That's to say, I think the tomato should be able to travel by train, and the Mediterranean Corridor is what it does to us. Therefore, it allows us to take the journey by train, but it also makes unnecessary an infrastructure that some of you also defend, is the B-40. Deia, we share the international scope, we share the priority of rail goods, we also share the separation of lives between goods and passengers, we share the step of goods in the interior of Tarragona, which has also been added to this young man, and a question that is central to us, that is the transport of passengers. And here, therefore, we believe that the Mediterranean Corridor is important and that connecting it in high speed Valencia-Barcelona is a huge opportunity, for example, for the Lands of the Ebre. And, for that, it's a key that we don't forget, a little more, of the Hebrew. And I'm telling you, because you refused to take back the train before Tortosa-l'Aldea-Barcelona. And we believe that what it is to convert the resort of the Village into a real railway line that actually connects the Lands of the Ebro, not only with Barcelona and with València, but with the rest of Spain, through Tarragona, and with Europe through Barcelona. And why this is real, because it affects the conjunction of the Lands of the Hebrews, which is to solve internal mobility also in the Lands of the Hebrews. And here the competence of the Generality is key. And the proposal that we have made on a train to the Jewish lands and that we have given to the government to start pulling forward, and what is done, we understand that it is essential. This tram train connects Roquetes, Tortosa, the Village, Amposta and Ràpita and, therefore, also through the Village is able to connect with the rest of the world, practically, in the end. And finally: let me refer to the report that you want to build with motions like this and that we saw..., we haven't seen so much in the presentation, it's true, of today, of Mr. Tremosa, but yes in the inquiry that was made to the vice president; this idea that it's all Spain's fault. Look, the investment in Rodalies by the state in Catalonia has been a waste of hair for decades, which we believe is evidence. Now that's good. [[Funnel veils]] Where have you been for 20 years? Were they claiming that the investment in Rodalies is a priority? Or were they claiming the AVE and the Fourth Belt? Because I know where they were, some of us have memory, and we have memory of who was defending from this Faristol and who was defending the Congress of Deputies that priority is invested in Rodalies. And it wasn't you. But, come on, let's not look back, let's focus on the present, and I see what I see, basically, if we look at the present, is that now certainly the Government of the State, so there is a plan of Rodales to invest 4,500_million euros in Catalonia in the period 20-25, of which there are already more than 1,800 bids, of which 500 are smaller people, such as the unfolding of the R3 or the better of the metropolitan network. I see that in order to deploy this plan of Rodalies a coordination office has been created right here on the side, coordinated by an expert with great technical knowledge and I think that people suspected as it is in Pere Macias, and that the General should be in this coordination office to boost the plan of Rodalies from the first day and it did not want to be. Because you – I finish, president – look very much at the percentage of implementation of the state's investments, but what you call T-Mobility is not that it's eight years late, it's a real misconception. So what we're asking is that they do the work here in Catalonia, too, what I do in Rodalies, what I do for the four lines of Rodalies de Lleida and for the connection of R8 and RT2 to Vilafranca. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.107.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Joan Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.108.0	President, thank you. Counselor, deputies, deputies, so well, it seems that Mr. Tremosa will have..., maybe he will have his consent; I don't know, we don't know yet, but he will. But before I say what our vote will be, I'd like to talk a little bit about the past, wouldn't I? Now we're all in the car, let's just say, of the Mediterranean infrastructure, of the Mediterranean Corridor, of this connection to Andalusia, but do they really think that if there was a genuine political will we would have worked for 20 years to have this infrastructure or to start seeing that we had this infrastructure on the table? And I think this is the fault of all the political parties, at least those that have taken responsibility for government, both in Catalonia and in Spain. I believe – and this is what I think is obvious – that there are works or, let's face it, you prove that this is it. The Vandellòs variant, which was inaugurated a year ago, roughly, ugly six legislatures that was, therefore, approved as to what was their project or their willingness that it was possible to implement; therefore, we are talking about two decades of delay. So there have actually been real moments when the government's will, both the People's Party and the PSOE, has not followed or been able to carry this infrastructure forward. And also the different Catalan nationalist parties, in this case – Catalans/nationalists – that have been able to influence the assumptions during all these years and have not succeeded or have not succeeded or have not sought to prioritize this infrastructure to the general assumptions of the State and neither here in Catalonia. We have to say that ours, say, acting, or our position, has always been consistent enough. It was already mentioned before that 2011 we already supported this premise, this infrastructure, but it is that we the first premise where we were able, therefore, to have influence, which was 2016 with the Government of the People's Party, we already introduced part of the works that are now being implemented, and also under the assumption that we were able to influence. Therefore, we have always had it as a basic priority, because, first of all, for ours, we say, evolution, a party born in Catalonia, and because we know very well the reality of what was going on with the infrastructures in Spain and, in fact, also in Catalonia. We have defended every time productive infrastructure has to be prioritized, and investments have to be prioritized as a function of socio-economic profitability. I think that... many times here it's about different jobs, so I think it's about making a balance of what these jobs are going to pay for, and what, say, socio-economic performance, in this case, they will tend. We have, of course, always defended long-term planning, environmental sustainability, openness to Europe and openness, in fact, to the world. And, in fact, if these criteria were taken into account, we might not have had the problem that we have had many times, of course differences between the different groups, in this case parties that have been able to govern Spain and also Catalonia. I think the Mediterranean Corridor is good for Catalonia, good for all of Spain; we have left..., and we have always worked from the hand of the rest of the autonomous communities – in this case ruling, for example, in Andalusia – and we will continue to do so. Therefore, our compromise. We will vote in favour, as we have always done, of all the motion – yes, to all the motion we will give support. But I also ask: Do you think Together for Catalonia the same as the Republican Left? And here I leave it on the table. Because then we find ourselves surprised by what happened with the airport. So, do you think exactly the same thing? Will they defend exactly the same from the government? That's also a question for the counselor. And, finally, different comments. There was talk, and he did want to answer to some of them. There's been talk about the radial system, the national radial system. Yes, there is a history of radiality in Spain, but also in Catalonia. I remind you that those of us who don't live in Barcelona, so we have to spend many times in Catalonia to go, for example, to..., it's the same, to Baix Llobregat or to go to Bages. Therefore, the radiality I believe that many times has followed and continues to feel exactly the same. And a response to the VOX Group, too, by the end of it. There was talk before... you talked about working and following up on the Mediterranean Corridor project to the Congress of Deputies. Maybe they should have submitted some statement to the presuppositions of this year, which they haven't submitted. Therefore, I think that in this case they are good to control, but they should also have worked at national level. Many thanks, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.109.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.110.0	Thank you very much, President. I am pleased that for once I stop talking about disconnecting Catalonia from the rest of Spain and talking about projects to connect it better, as is the case with the Mediterranean Corridor. We will vote in favour of all points in the House. It seems to us an infrastructure that is very important, it is a cable infrastructure, that carries too much delay and that has to start running as soon as possible. It is the key to boosting and agile business activity and moving goods, and it is the key to reducing the transport of these goods. But, as I said to the previous lady, fewer speeches and more action. Because I want to remind you that President Quim Torra left the promoters and those responsible for this project behind when they took an action here in Barcelona, and that they also decided not to go, head of the Catalan executive, in a meeting, in a meeting with more than a thousand entrepreneurs from Catalonia, Valencia, Murcia and Andalusia, called for the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs, precisely to try to give a boost to the Mediterranean Corridor. Therefore, let us hope – new Government, new mentality – that there has been a change of paradigm and that this movement, the presentation of this movement, will really be the will to give full support, not only from the Parliament of Catalonia but also from the Government of the Generality, to a project that is key not only for Catalonia but also for Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.111.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank Congressman Estruch for the record and mention he made of the Tarragona Interior Merchandise platform. When this platform compared to the Digital Policy and Territorial Commission, all groups gave it support. The people on the platform were very happy, but now, Congressman Terrades, Socialist Group helped us, because four months ago they tricked the ministry into a meeting and did not answer it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, fine, but they want a meeting and they don't give themselves; if it were possible to get this meeting. Then, too, another question: when will it end, when will the Mediterranean Corridor arrive at the SEAT of Martorell? Because my friend Josep Vicente Boira, who has been acting for the Mediterranean Corridor for 20 years in València and Barcelona, who now has an important role in the socialist government, in a book I published two years ago recognized me: « On November 2021 the train went up to the factory. I called him on November 1 to say, "What day are you doing to watch the opening? And he says to me, "Ui, Ramon, this is now 2023. They don't know... I say: "But if the work is done! As you said, from Castellbisbal to Martorell, the work was done two years ago. When will the SEAT be able to save between 50 and 100_million euros per year in transport cost because the train up to the factory door? Finally, all the Catalans, they vote for what they vote for, we have a problem, which is that someone in Madrid thinks..., and they're the top people in the state? – I don't know, I ask. Does anyone in Madrid think that the Mediterranean Corridor is the train of the definitive Europeanization of the Catalan economy? Does anyone in Madrid prefer a poor Spain before they expect prosperity to enter Catalan ports? How do you understand that the railway station of the port of Barcelona, in the old llera of the river Llobregat, carries two years? So many good questions from here to two years do not need to be debated in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.113.0	Well, then, after the debate, let's proceed to the vote on the motions for substance this morning in points 24 to 29 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the difficulties with which the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert finds itself to do its job abroad (continuation)]] [[302-00093/13]] We will begin by voting on item 24, the motion following the question to the Government about the difficulties with which the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert finds itself to do its job abroad. We'll start by voting points 1 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 72 votes in favour and 59 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 72 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the harmful effects of macrogranges (continuation)]] [[302-00088/13]] We proceed to vote on the twenty-fifth item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government about the harmful effects of macro-grangs. And I don't know about macrogranges, but this macrovote will be. I have warned the spokespersons that in the voting guide we remove the headers of point 2 and point 4, we will vote directly on all the numbers and all the letters. So, let's start by voting point 1.a. The vote begins. This point received 117 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point 1.b now. The vote begins. Point 1.b_has received 14 votes in favour, 111 against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now on point 1.c. The vote begins. This point received 15 votes in favour, 110 against and 5 abstentions. Start voting point 1.d. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting for point 2.a. The vote begins. This point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was approved with 118 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 118 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved with 121 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 24 votes in favour and 107 votes against. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b_is approved with 121 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 15 votes in favour and 116 votes against. We're voting now for point 4.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point 4.e now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 15 votes in favour and 116 votes against. We're voting now for point 4.f. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 15 votes in favour, 111 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting 5th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 13 votes against. And now we're going to vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 15 votes in favour and 116 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of cultural rights (continuation)]] [[302-00089/13]] We're voting now on the twenty-first point of the order of the day... [[Mònica Sales de la Cruz asks to speak.]] Excuse me. Yes, Mrs. Sales?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.114.0	President, if we didn't get it wrong, you said that we wouldn't vote for the caps on points 2 and 4, but we would still have to vote on 1 and 5, unless it was also one of the points that you had told us, but for us to vote on 1 it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.115.0	Let's see, for a moment, that we consult the final motion. [[Widow's remorse.]] We have consulted with the readers and the headers are free from the votes of the points that come back. Therefore, we will not vote for this young man's head. So, now, at paragraph 26, we pass the motion following the question to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights. Here we have a first ballot of points 1, 2, 4, 7 and 8, without 8.d, and number 10. Therefore, the vote begins. These points were approved with 113 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting points 3 and 9. The vote begins. These points were approved with 118 votes in favour and 13 abstentions. We're voting 5 and 11 now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 118 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point received 48 votes in favour, 80 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting now for point 8.d. The vote begins. This point received 15 votes in favour, 16 against and 99 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 20 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 36 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into economic recovery plans and European foundations (continuation)]] [[302-00090/13]] Let's move on to item 27 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about economic recovery plans and European foundations. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 14 votes in favour, 110 votes against, 5 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting now for the 1 bis point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 85 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 75 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour, 56 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point received 15 votes in favour, 15 against and 101 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] We have to repeat this point. Let's go back to voting point number five. The vote begins. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] This point has again received 15 votes in favour, 15 against and 101 abstentions. At this point we have to wait two minutes and vote again. [[Long break.]] After the three calls to vote, let's re-vote this point number 5. The vote begins. So now, finally, this point got 17 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 104 abstentions. Let's start voting point number six. The vote begins. This point received 51 votes in favour, 15 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting now on the 6-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 83 votes in favour, 15 votes against, 32 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 51 votes in favour and 80 votes against. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 116 votes in favour and 15 votes against. And finally, we vote for point 9. The vote begins. This point received 9 votes in favour, 78 against and 44 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the reform of public administration (continuation)]] [[302-00091/13]] Let's move on to twenty-eight on the order of the day, the motion following the Government's inquiry into the reform of public administration. We begin by voting point number 1, with the cap, 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.g and 1.j. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 116 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.d. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting points one and one now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 116 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting 1.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, from this point of view, we vote on point 1.h and 2. The vote begins. These points were approved with 121 votes in favour and 10 votes against. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor (continuation)]] [[302-00092/13]] And finally we vote point 29, the motion following the question to the Government about the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor. We vote points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 131 votes in favour. [[Greetings.]] We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 124 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. And we're finally voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point has been approved, another time for unanimity, with 131 votes in favour. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.116.0	Very nice late. Let's resume the session. Please, if you can take over, ladies and gentlemen, your seats... [[Procedure for choosing syndicated sets from the Union of Accounts]] [[282-00001/11]] We welcome the members of the Union of Accounts who accompany us and also the candidates proposed for this item on the agenda that we are now addressing, the fifteenth item on the agenda, the procedure for choosing the syndicates of the Union of Accounts. They know that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 179 and Article 2 of Law 14/2005 of 27 December 2005 on the intervention of the Parliament of Catalonia in the designation of the authorities and bodies of parliamentary designation and on the criteria and procedures for assessing its suitability, the procedure for the appearance of the candidates proposed for the parliamentary groups before the Committee of Institutional Affairs at the sitting held this past February 7th, led by the appearance of candidate Miquel Salazar Canalda, who had previously been substantiated. Therefore, I will then ask the secretary first to read the names of the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.117.0	Miquel Salazar Canalda, Llum Rodríguez Rodríguez, Ferran Roquer Padrosa, Josep Viñas i Xifra, Manel Rodríguez Tió, Maria Àngels Cabasés Piqué, Anna Tarrach Colls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.118.0	As the parliamentary groups have asked to be able to intervene at the later Board of Spokesmen, we will open a five-minute turn of intervention as high as possible. In the first place, the paragraph, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.119.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... let me start today by sincerely thanking all the members of the Outgoing Accounts Union, huh? , that today they finish a long stage, that has stretched more than all of us can think, but that they have exercised their responsibility with great mastery, with great rigour, with great professionalism and with a work not easy people, pedagogical, to explain their work and to give observations and proposals of better functioning of the public sector of Catalonia. Therefore, a very sincere thanks from our group and certainly extended from the rest of the Members and Members. For another band, a welcome, if the vote pulls forward, to the candidates proposed to us auditors: the Miquel Salazar, which would repeat; the Llum Rodríguez; the Ferran Roquer; the Josep Viñas; the Maria Àngels Cabasés; the Anna Tarrach, and the Manel Rodríguez. A thanks for all the work and public service during all these years, because they have demonstrated a trajectory, an expert and a knowledge that makes them fully complete the requirements that mark the law of the Union of Accounts. But also, obviously, a professionalism that they also demonstrated in the committee's appearances. I think it's up to us all to represent the figure, the institution of the Union of Accounts. And this means, from the government, the parliament, trying to follow the recommendations, trying to equip the union with the necessary resources so that they can do their job, because they can evaluate, because they can tax the good functioning, transparency, the follow-up of the compliment of the regulations of the whole public sector, of the generality and of the whole public sector in general. Therefore, we have a good union of accounts, which has a prestige and, therefore, we all work because this follows. We're putting an end to an anomaly, to an anomaly that was too long for it to last. And that was thanks to a great deal of agreement. Better, surely, but an agreement that makes us comply with the law of the Union of Accounts, that says that the sixty_per_cent of the deputies must choose, they must propose..., they must propose and there must be, as a minimum, a sixty_per_cent support to the new syndics of the Union of Accounts. And we don't do it with a sixty-per-cent, we do it with a seventy-three-per-cent support, like at least; we'll see if more. I, therefore, diem, u, that it was time. We apologize for not having done so before and for having had the members who had already finished their terms during this inter-initiation period. Let us ask those who have doubts or who are critics who say which is the alternative. Keep the lock? What's the alternative? To amend a law that was approved in 2010 and that some who are now critical of this election system voted in favour? Are we changing the law? No, because we've already voted in favour. Therefore, some, when they come to the proposals of the names, agree, with the system of electing these qualified majorities. But when they do not go in and make certain proposals, then they are against it. Therefore, they understand the criticisms, which are completely legitimate, what we have to assess today is the suitability of our candidates and candidates. And the committee was already told; most of the spokespersons said, "We have no problem with the candidates, because they have a broad curriculum, extensive knowledge, and therefore they will do a good job. So what's the problem? I therefore believe that we are in compliance with the Statute of Catalonia, the Statute of Autonomy. Comply with union law and comply with common sense at particularly important times to ensure transparency, public administration taxation and evaluation. So this is a good deal for us. Profiles prepared. Do they complete the requirements set out in the law? Yeah. Will they do good work because the country and the institution need it? Yeah. And this Parliament and this Government have to try to do, more than sometimes in the past, it is to follow their recommendations and try not to repeat many times, once and for all, some observations and that it is not complete. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialists and Forwarding Units Group, a thank you to all the Members who today make possible – as well as the criticisms that will continue – who have made this agreement possible, putting an end to a situation of provisionality that did not help anyone. And, therefore, let us try to do a good job, the union, and that the public administrations of Catalonia function as it does. Many thanks to all of you, and welcome to whom we will surely be members of the Account Union of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.120.0	Then, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.121.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr. President, councillor, deputies... at last, everyone present. Several weeks ago we learned from the press that the Socialist Party had reached an infamous agreement with the two separatist parties of the government, Esquerra Republicana and Junts, to distribute the armchairs of several institutions dependent on this Parliament, all of them with very high salaries. In this case, let's talk about the account union. This agreement was made without knowledge of the rest of the parties in this Parliament, or at least that is deduced from the comments that have been made by other groups today. As you can imagine, this opaque, back-to-back procedure in this Parliament outrages us – we are outraged – although we are already used to it. Let's see what that pact has meant in the distribution of the six armchairs of the Union of Accounts. Charges which, by the way, each of them has a salary of about 120,000 euros per year. Article 1.1 of Law 18/2010 of the Union of Accounts states: « The Union of Accounts is the external supervisory body for the accounts, economic management and financial control of the Generality, local authorities and the rest of the public sector in Catalonia. In Article 1 and point 3 the same idea is mentioned: "The Union of Auditors must act with submission to the legal system and with complete independence from the public bodies and bodies which are subject to supervision. What has been the result of this distribution? Well, exactly the opposite of what the law says. Let us remember what the law says: "external, "total independence. The elected are not external when among them there are several persons who hold or have held leadership positions in some of the bodies to be monitored. Nor does there seem to be independence from the elected when, in addition to having been chosen by each of these parties from among their loyal ones, several of them have had a well-known political party activity. There are even some ex-parliamentarians in the group, and another who is today and who, in fact, has accompanied us during this week's plenary session and who continues to accompany us today. Does anyone think there can be independence if these people are going to monitor the accounts of agencies run by their party partners? Party which, moreover, has appointed them for that post. The first example of doubts, of their lack of independence, we have read in the press. All for the press, all very transparent. Although the above-mentioned Act of the Union of Accounts establishes in its article 28 that the principal trustee, the highest office of the institution, is elected by the trustees themselves, the three parties of this infamous pact have already decided – and has been published – which of them will hold that office. We will see, then, the next few days if these six people obey the orders of the parties that have appointed them or have their own judgment and know how to defend it. I think we've all figured out what the outcome is going to be. From the VOX Parliamentary Group, we are outraged by this infamous pact in which the Socialist Party, once again, has distributed with the separatist parties the well-paid armchairs – let us remember: 120,000_euros a year – of high public offices of several institutions. Money that will come out of the pocket of all Catalans and that will take, once again, nationalist politicians, socialist politicians and their associates. But there is an alternative: since VOX we are committed to closing this organism, which costs us almost 13_million a year [[remorse of the voice]] , just like all those whose armchairs have spread these days. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.122.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Congresswoman Montserrat Vi... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, I had noted Mrs. Montserrat Vinyets. Now you tell me, it'll be Mrs. Maria Dolors Sabater. So let's get going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.123.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, President, Councillor... Let's start this late session with a follow-up of points of election procedure from various to important bodies, which have a fundamental importance in the guarantees of democracy, ethics and transparency in our country. As I have already expressed repeatedly to the CAI, from our political space we are firmly against the election of this syndicate by virtue of a global agreement to split falls between parties, precisely because we prestige this body, which we absolutely agree with that it is tanqui; it has an essential, fundamental function for our democracy. And we're against it because it brings shadows of doubt to a prestigious institution and it doesn't allow us to value the professional value of candidates outside this brand already partyly conditioned. Because we can deny the major and because their connection to parties is incompatible with political independence, and because this is not worthy of a parliament that has precisely suffered and continues to paint the partyist political interference of the State, the ideological repression that disables elects climbing Parliament's sovereignty and conveying the people's vote. The latest reprisal, in Pau Juvillà, but we have..., the list is huge, among people in exile, those who have suffered imprisonment, disqualifications, fines... And precisely because we are a parliamentary victim of this anti-democratic abuse of the State and of the parties that support it, therefore, we still need to be more curious about denying these practices that question transparency and good governance when there is party interference. The union is an independent institution of the executive, since its mission is hard to carry out external control of entities in the public sector, both of the Generality and of the local area. And, listen, on this... on the web, you say it very well. He explains to us how the major syndic's working. And speaking of the mayor's syndicate, we're detecting two irregularities now and here that we've been wanting to report ever since. First, the principal syndicate is chosen by the Ple of the trade union from among its members and appointed by the President of the Generality for a period of three years. But the press, on the 23rd of September, already announced to us that the agreement of the PSC, Esquerra and Junts to renew the expired charges that depend on the Parliament..., already informed that they proposed Miquel Salazar to chair the Union of Accounts, from which already formed part, at the proposal of the Socialists Group. That is to say, the decision is not put in the Ple of the union, but is taken from the matches. The second irregular is the next. The president said so, but, look, I, Mr. Salazar don't know him, I haven't had the opportunity to listen to him. We spent almost two hours following the CAI commission, especially for appearances. Twelve people showed up. And the law makes it very clear; on 14/2005, of 27 December, on the intervention of the Parliament of Catalonia in the designation of the authorities and the bodies of parliamentary designation, establishes in Article 2 that candidates to occupy the offices referred to in Article 1, among the syndics, must appear before the parliamentary commission corresponding before their election. An appearance that, as set out in its preamble to the same Law 14/2005, has as its objective to guarantee political and institutional neutrality and establish..., so that Parliament can publicly assess the ideological position and professional skills and projects of each candidate. The other candidates did compare, and I wanted to listen to them and I was able to say that I regret that this pact between parties prevents it from being able to assess its professional value objectively and that its political link to some of the three parties in some cases, to its current roles in others, cast doubt on the independence that the office requires. But to Mr. Salazar, who you have already decided will be the major syndic by jumping the rule and the appropriate council, we were able to listen to him or ask him. And, therefore, I ask this House not to rush into the irregularity of voting it without having completed the procedure, and I am not worth it already completed, because this is another legislature. We're talking about a very relevancy charge. We cannot pose, we cannot give a shadow of a doubt because the right, which wants to load these institutions of democratic control, has the opportunity to discredit them and to load them. And, therefore, we cannot misunderstand with erroneous procedures an institution of as much prestige as the Union of Accounts. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.124.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego. I add now, before the deputy joins..., to clarify to Mrs Sabater that the procedure that sets out is that the members that are to be ratified have already passed the suitability in their moment, and it is the case of Mr Miquel Salazar, who passed this hearing on July 16, 2013. He then passed it, and the two members who repeated it for a second term, as if its suitability had already been confirmed, so they did not pass it. Therefore, it has always been considered – and this is why it has also been done in this case – that it is not necessary to assess the suitability for the second time of someone who is already occupying the task that is being renewed. I'm just saying this to the effect of the procedural issue, with the benefit that you made the political presentation you wanted to make on the case. It was only a procedural precision. Mr. Joan Carles Gallego has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.125.0	Well, good afternoon to all of you. Well, then, on the way in, please and recognize the work that the Union of Accounts has done these past years. I think there's been a necessary job and a job done efficiently. I think he has allowed us, at least the period in which I have been able to know the reports, to analyze the reality of the management – highly better – financial, economic and accounting – highly better, I insist – of the public sector, of the generality and of the different entities. But I think he's put a good part of the reality of what's going on to the discovery, and so he's left us on top of the table, which will be much better than the public sector, and some doubts that we're going to have to analyze. That today we even see in the diary some management not overly transparent or not sufficiently transparent of public foundations these years. But, well, in any case, thank and recognize the good work done. Regret that we're doing this act today, to hear us, out of the blue. A good part of the union members had long since expired their term of office. There are things we should have done to them before. Fem when you're a fan. But let us also take note; the bad functioning of institutions is also not to do things when they touch, let things be empty rotten and, therefore, install us in an institutional degradation. Obviously, not only because there are expired mandates, but also sometimes because of the use of certain institutions or persons responsible for certain institutions. Well, say that, we won't vote... or we'll vote against, say, the proposal of candidates who have come forward, right? And we'll do it because we think we have two problems ahead of us. One that refers to the method of presentation of candidates. Things, as a rule, are what they seem. And what it looks like is that the candidates who come forward are the result of a government agreement with the first opposition party. It's not a consensual agreement with the side of the chamber, with the side of the political parties of that chamber. It is not a consensus to agree on the diversity and plurality that this chamber has. It is an agreement, lawful, but agreed, between a part of the parties that have enough numbers to approve it, but that exclude a part of the diversity and plurality of this chamber. I believe that in those things that require consensus, those things that want to institutionalize the political life of the country for the future, because they serve the whole country and everyone, they would do well to extend the consensus as much as possible, rather than quadrupling the numbers, because we must see that the institutions are from everyone, not from those who agree and exclude others. Therefore, we do not like the method of submitting applications. We've said it since the first moment. We wanted to be part of the solution, so as not to install ourselves today in the problem that it can be voted on than not, because we were pleased to build collectively a consensus that we have given more plurality, more diversity and, therefore, more trust, even more, to whom we must then trust in this institution. That's a problem that makes us vote no. And second of all, we understand that there are eligibility issues with some of the candidates. It is true that we have the report of the judicial services of Parliament, which say that there is no problem of ineligibility, but it is also true that things, as a rule, are what they seem. And, of course, there are some questions that I think would be worth thinking about. If who has to analyze the accounts a while ago or has been acting there where the accounts are created, is managing the accounts or, even so, where the accounts are politically determined, the partiality with which this person will then be able to assess the result of how it was managed, as has been done and so, is a bit dangerous. There is a period of time, in this non-existent case, between making a partisan political function or also a party political responsibility function around public accounts that makes it difficult for us to see, to these people, a partisan independence in relation to the function they have to do, which is, above all, to do it in the most neutral way possible because people, citizens, trust in the work they do, which is ultimately to control public accounts. This obviously does not invalidate a reality: they are good professionals, all of them, certainly. There are many good professionals in Catalonia – many. You did well to make them more plural and, above all, to try to secure any element of doubt in relation to their neutrality or partiality at the time of doing the work they must do. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.126.0	Now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.127.0	Thank you, President. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are faced with a paradigmatic case of what the Italians, the Italian political theory has given in calling 'lottizzazione'; a term, in my opinion, very descriptive of how positions are divided into consolidated democracies, of course, but which have faces or have elements, let us say, which tend, at least, to tend to corruption. And, indeed, lottizzazione refers to an urbanist term to describe that lot distribution of posts, of certain public posts, of certain positions that are fundamental to the proper functioning of the public administration, but that in practice end up in a sort of place of placement, basically, of friends, acquaintances and people related to the parties that reach these agreements. I believe that this is a way of doing politics that corresponds to the bad government, it corresponds to practices that end up drifting, that end up in amigoism, enchufism, nepotism, clientelism, lack of efficiency, lack of transparency... And all this does not have to do, as the socialist deputy said, with the form of election, it does not have to do with the system, but with how the parties that govern and those that reach the agreement to distribute these positions pervert the system. Therefore, this example of lottizzazione seems to me to be paradigmatic, and I believe that we must denounce what it is for. In this sense, today I want to make the point with a news we have heard this morning, from which the spokesmen of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana today boasted and came to tell us that Spain is no longer a full democracy, but a defective democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist parties and the Socialist Party, is indeed the finding of one of the biggest shortcomings of Spanish democracy. This is one of the flaws of Spanish democracy. By the way, Madam Madaula, the other defect of Spanish democracy that points out The Economist, in addition to that lot distribution of public offices, of that friendship, of that nepotism, of that clientelism, are precisely those – as the Economist calls his movement – regional nationalisms. That is the other flaw that points to Spanish democracy. And, indeed, Spanish democracy has flaws – it has flaws. And one of them, the main one, perhaps, is you. [[Rialles and some applause.]] In this sense, let me remind you that corruption is not a private thing of the Spanish – of the Spanish. No, no, Unfortunately – I am deeply sorry and sorry – Catalonia has had the dubious honour of being recognized by the University of Gothenburg in a four-year report, with the support of the European Commission, as the most corrupt region in Spain. And that is thanks, logically, for the fault, for the responsibility, for the death of his government, of the government of the separatists of Republican Left and of Junts per Catalunya. Therefore, to me that Mrs Madaula and the representatives of Esquerra Republicana and of Junts per Catalunya go out to Parliament to get their breasts out and boast that Spain is no longer a full democracy, according to them..., because I remind them that: unfortunately, great international indices tell us that Catalonia is the most corrupt region in Europe, which I regret. And I hope that someday we can reverse that. But, obviously, with practices like this lot agreement that the Socialist Party and the nationalist parties have reached, we will hardly come out of this bad image by clientelism, by friendship, by nepotism that prevails in the public life of Catalonia. In this sense, since then my partner Anna Grau will already put the batteries in relation to the CAC and in relation to everything that has to do with the world of TV3, and so on, I would like to tell you one thing. Interestingly, Mr. Pujol appeared in a TV3 report where he talked about Andorra's roles. It is very curious that TV3, the public television of Catalonia, only made a report about Mr Pujol to whiten it, to say, alas! , that the fault of Pujol's corruption was the evil Spanish state, once again. At no time did they say, by the way – and that seems important to me to remember – that precisely Catalans know of all the rottenness of the Pujolist regime thanks to a newspaper that comes from Madrid. That is, transparency, neutrality, good governance in Catalonia are often imposed on us thanks to being part of Spain. In this case, it was the newspaper El Mundo who had to take all the rottenness, all the filth of the pujolist regime to the lecture. So, in that sense, I think we should thank ourselves for being part of that democracy, which is Spain. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.128.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.129.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, said the deputy of the Socialist Party, Mr Ordeig – who had the paper to have to come here to explain this pie with separatism – spoke of the prestige of the Union of Accounts. And precisely the problem of that pact that you have now reached with Esquerra Republicana and with Junts per Catalunya, the problem of that political marketing is that it has questioned the prestige of an organ such as the Union of Accounts. You have called into question the independence of this body, which is the main attribute of such a body responsible for monitoring the performance of the agencies under the Generalitat. We had never before had such a plural composition as you have proposed for this new union. You were also speaking, Mr Ordeig, referring to the broad curriculum of these people proposed for now. And yes, they do have a broad curriculum, a broad party curriculum. We have deputies, former deputies, brother of Mayor of Esquerra Republicana, a manager also of the Barcelona Parliament proposed by the Socialist Party. In short, a broad party curriculum, well linked to the parties that bring us here today this agreement, this pie. Honestly, I insist, they are people who have a marked partisan trajectory, who question the main attribute that this organ must have. Catalonia is the most corrupt region in Spain, and it was remembered by the Member who preceded me. And it is precisely the Union of Accounts that plays a fundamental role in this monitoring. There is no report, or almost very few, of the Union of Accounts in which no irregularities are detected, especially many of them related to public procurement, which we already know is where most of the nationalist parties and the rulers of this autonomous community have made their own, as in the case of three_per_cent, as in the case also that it affects the Institution of Catalan Letters, with this fractionation of contracts, etc.. It is a shame that you, with your attitude, have questioned, as I said, and questioned the independence and neutrality and transparency of this body. We'll see what happens from now on. You have not even respected, in this agreement, what marks the union law itself in its article 28, which makes it very clear that the major syndicate is chosen by the rest of the syndicates, but you have preferred to put your finger on it. Frankly, it seems to me that it has been a bad decision and a bad mistake, I insist, for the very prestige of this body. You too, Mr Ordeig, apologized to the citizenry for the delay in this change. It is true that the mandate has been expired for a long time, but it is that you did not care, in the previous parliamentary term, to sit down and talk about the renewal of these bodies. I understand that, as you now have a majority and you can decide who to put and who not, you have been much more interested. But, man, come here to do this exercise of cynicism, to apologize to the citizenry, when you, perfectly, in the previous legislature, at least – at least – could have sat down and talked... What do you want me to say to you? As I say to you, we are going to vote against it, because, first, it does not seem to us that they are the most suitable positions; secondly, we are putting at risk the prestige of an organ like this; thirdly, you have not even respected the very functioning of the Union of Accounts, and we will see if that does not have consequences in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.130.0	It is now the return of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. Mr. Pere Albó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.131.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everybody. Well, first of all, I think we should thank the outgoing syndics; congratulate the syndics. I also think it is very important to value this agreement that has been reached. I believe that the most displeasure of the institution was certainly not to agree and hold it, for so many months, and even years, waiting to renew these charges. So, I think the best we can do to make it worth it is this agreement. An agreement that is very broad and that, then, from here, there are two lines of criticism: the constructive, we could say, and then there is the destructive. With reference to the most constructive line, I am sure that all of us here agree with talking about how times have changed – we need to go better –, how we can go deeper into the best of selection, etc. To end this, with reference... in this respect, I believe that no one has ever discussed, nor just those of the destructive line, the suitability and the excellent trajectory of all the candidates who are proposed. So, I think this is way down the road. From here, there is, therefore, a whole series of arguments which, if I may say so, are a stumbling block and which should be rubbed down and rubbed down. First of all, to say that many of them are surely the result of a conception that already comes from Madrid and the Madrid Court of Auditors, where they may think that the same one that goes there has to pass here. Absolutely. First of all, it's a bit..., it's a bit of a laugh that the PP representative, who in the Court of Auditors has Mr Aznar's own brother, came to criticize any kind of nepotism in this organ, and not to mention ex-ministres, etc. A court that, precisely – which is not what our Court of Auditors does – is qualified to have been one of the executors of what would be the toughest law enforcement and repression policy in the State against Catalan independence. But it's that, more than anything else, even though the Catalan court of accounts can't. Therefore, imagine if they are thrones, these criticisms, thrones in our court has no jurisdictional capacity. Not tea. When, in fact, some time the exercise, if any, is by delegation of the Court of Auditors. So it's just not true and it's unfair to criticize this, but it's more than that, so they're not comparable. Therefore, from here, insist on it. I think everyone's agreed that we're ahead of big profiles. Moreover, I think that they should come out here with the conviction that we are very grateful that they have accepted this slope and not with another type of perception. I, uh... And, with reference to full democracy, I believe that precisely the way we hear the broad agreement here is a deepening of democracy. And, as I said, if you're in these gains of improvement, I'm sure you'll find us. But every time I'm on this line. I've got a minute left and I want to take advantage of the next one. I am sure that all the members of the parliamentary group, at these times, also want to congratulate in a particular and special way our partner, in Ferran Roquer; tell him that we will find him very missing and that we wish him the best in this new stage of his life. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.132.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.133.0	Thank you, President. Today we will vote a set of women and men who will be part of the new syndicate and syndicate team of the Union of Accounts. A team that we present with profiles more than prepared to exercise the taxing tasks of the public accounts of Catalonia. The people we present are people with complementary experts. The syndics and syndics team have a lot of experience in the development of assumptions and in the management and execution of assumptions, both at national and local level, and in small municipalities. This experience will allow your recommendations not only to be rigorous, but also more practical. For another band, among these experts there are also people with a high level of theoretical research and applied in the field of presuppositional innovation and economic management. This will allow us to include new ideas, recommend new ones, but use them in science and academic rigour. Another level of expertise is the experience in political management, which for the Spanish nationalist right in this Parliament seems to be a demerit, and for us it is a merit. This experience will allow to balance between the rigour and taxation requirements of the public accounts of the Generality and the local administrations with the look of the policy, and whether these assumptions have gone to what the legislator and the policy have devised. This is a legislature of many accords. We have begun the legislature with an agreement of the independence forces, an investment agreement; we have reached a presuppositional agreement with the federalist and sovereign left of this Parliament, and now we have reached a much broader agreement, of almost one hundred Members, with other forces. Do you know who never participates in the agreements, will not participate or has participated in them? The Spanish Nationalist Right. And do you know why this legislature could come to this agreement to renew the Union of Accounts and not the previous one, when the mandate was already expired? It's nice to see you. The previous legislature, the Spanish nationalist right, had forty deputies, and this one came. Don't use a minibus. The Spanish State is trying to sabotage the Catalan policy, and in concrete terms what we are doing in this Parliament, by putting all the laws and agreements into continuous justice, by attacking the sovereignty of Parliament, by tearing down the rights of Members of Parliament with abusive feelings only to lay down a banner or a grove at their desk. And this law of the Spanish State has a piece here, which are the deputies, the twenty deputies of the Spanish nationalism of the Drets. And it is quite difficult to justify voting against the combination of women and men who conform to the new team of the Union of Accounts if we stick to their merits but also to their commitment with general interest and their commitment of interest in the public service. It's pretty hard. When we did the hearings, they were rebutted in this respect, and the criticisms they make are more political or sometimes even rhetorical. But it's just like the resume we're presenting to you, it's just like we're talking about the team being complemented and being coherent in itself. It's like assaulting a castle with cream pies. In any case, finally, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we want to thank the team of syndics and syndics coming out of the work done with rigour, with public compromises, for more time, and even more, than the compromise they had originally acquired. And, therefore, the work that has been done by this team of syndics and syndics that now ceases to be so is laudable. And to the new team of syndicates and syndics that we choose today, we want them to be uncertain, rigorous in the taxation of public accounts, but they also make criticisms and constructive recommendations, since the objective is not only to say whether the Public Administration is doing well or is doing badly, or to point out where the mistakes are. It is also that it introduces better into the presuppositional management and better ones that are to benefit the public presuppositional management and that, therefore, end up benefiting the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.134.0	Well, thank you very much. So we'll move on to the assignment. Yes, Mr. Roquer, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.135.0	Yes, President. No, no, no, no, [[Rialles.]] To announce that I seem to fall into a conflict of interest in Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and for which I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.136.0	Perfect, thank you very much. So the record that, according to Article 18 of the Law 18/2010, of June 7th, of the Union of Accounts, is required a majority of three_five parts for the designation of the syndics of the Union of Accounts, that the vote will be electronic and secret, also in agreement with Article 101.3 of the Regulation. I therefore ask the chamber servants to take the technical measures necessary to guarantee the secrecy of the vote, and we will vote on the proposal for candidates which has been submitted jointly. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.137.0	In case you can call for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.138.0	Yeah, I wanted to do it now. I was doing it at the same time. [[Long break.]] We therefore vote on the proposal for candidates which has been submitted jointly. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Remember, it's secret, the vote. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The trustees have obtained 97 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one person who does not vote. As, therefore, the required majority has sunk, this application has already been approved. The seven candidates mentioned are named syndicates of the Union of Accounts, and we wish them much luck, much uncertainty, and we congratulate them. [[Procedure for choosing five members of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia]] [[285,000,0001/11]] Let's move on, then, to the seventh point of the order of the day, which is the procedure for choosing five members of the Board of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. There was also a joint application signed for the parliamentary groups of Socialists and Units for Progress, Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, and that the appearance of the five candidates was substantiated before the Committee on Institutional Affairs on last February 7. Therefore, ask the secretary to read the names of the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.139.0	Xevi Xirgo i Teixidor, Rosa Maria Molló Llorens, Miquel Miralles i Fenoll, Laura Pinyol Puig, Enric Casas i Gironella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.140.0	Then again, as parliamentary groups have asked to intervene, and as agreed at the later Board of Spokesmen, we will open a five-minute turn of intervention per parliamentary group, while welcoming the proposed candidate members for this item on the agenda. In the first place, Mr David Pérez, of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.141.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, candidates... Well, today we consider the chamber to be the agreement for the renewal of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. We also arrive a few years late and hope that this anomaly... as we said before, from a moment on we can restore normality. And also a record and thank you for the members of the outgoing council: Mr. Roger Lopacher, Mr. Daniel Sirera and Mrs. Carme Figueras. What's CAC? ACC is an organization, an audiovisual regulatory authority, a control tool that is in the law, absolutely necessary to ensure the plurality of radio and public television information. We have him in Catalonia and we have him in other communities, we have him in other countries and we have him on so many televisions. What methods have we used to make this renewal? First of all, we agree on a document, on a compromise of what we want to make, a compromise per writing on the futures of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, a compromise of plurality, non-governmentalization of media, independence, as all the candidates in the hearing of the Commission of Institutional Affairs said. A document, for sure, that we have made public, and a document that has found the support of good part of the sector. Therefore, the method of compromise, by writing, and of broad agreement, two thirds – the law asks it – the ninety-members – will surely be a few more. The law asks us for this qualified majority of non-members, and a proposal that we will make of three parliamentary groups, which quietly exceeds this jifra. It is the three major parliamentary groups. Could there be a group of four? Surely, or a _five or a_six. It could be – it could be. In this case they are the three major groups of this chamber, which conform – we have seen it a while ago – among 97, 98 Members. What methods have you used? The discretion at the time to put on the table this proposal of names; names of teams of people willing to pull forward this compromise that they make their own; a multidisciplinary team – we saw in the hearing –, journalists of a long trajectory, of the private world and of the public world, of private radios and of public radios, of private televisions and of public televisions, practically all with experience in the local world, in local radios, on local televisions; of journalism, of the creation of contents, of corporate communication. Young and veteran. Let's honestly think he's a great team. Let's honestly think he's a good team. How do you do that in other communities? How's that for Andalusia? How's that for Galicia? How's that in Madrid? How's that for Murcia? Practically the same. Here we have a qualified two-thirds majority; other communities do not. Here we do, but practically the same. Is there any political force that has renounced these charges? Not one of them. I'm telling you, not one. In other communities, not one. All have proposed candidates, all political forces. And, of course, it's a method that complements the law: gambling in the members, gambling in which it will also be completed in the presidencies and vice-presidencies. That's the proposal. This is our commitment: to restore the public service mission of public communication media to Catalonia. And it is in this sense that we announce our vote in favour of this proposal from the five candidates. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.142.0	Next, it's the turn of the VOX Parliamentary Group. Mr Alberto Tarradas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.143.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Last week we experienced a truly regrettable spectacle, once again starred by the separatist groups of this chamber. President Borràs decided to suspend the parliamentary activity of the Parliament of Catalonia in a burst of gallardy. The separatists described it as an act of protest and rebellion in the face of the court's decision to remove a member of this chamber from the parliamentary record. It was, in fact, one of those great milestones of separatism, wasn't it? , a gesture of courage for yours, until you saw your salary jeopardized. Then, they quickly retreated, it is not going to be that the evil Spanish State, which is paying it at the same time, will take their wages away from them. And this is precisely what we are talking about today, to go in a hurry, to distribute salaries, because, when it comes to separatists, the hair is the hair and the hair goes first. We started this new season of Game of Thrones, where the three great dynasties of this chamber – the convergent dynasty, the republican dynasty and the socialist dynasty – have agreed behind the backs of the Catalans another distribution of chairs. The three large families have presented and pasted everything they have wanted and have distributed to their liking the distribution of the Governing Council of ACC. In this case, Junts, therefore, has taken the fat man, has taken the throne of thrones, has taken the presidency of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, but that we will comment on in the following intervention. Left Republican and the Socialist Party have spread the rest of the chairs that make up the council of the ACC. On the part of the Socialists, the elected have been Rosa Maria Molló and Enric Casas, two names put to the finger by the Socialist Party, and in the case of Mr Casas, a man whose only experience in this sector is based on having been and having held responsibilities of communication and press within the Socialist Party since the 1980s. On the part of Esquerra, they were Miquel Miralles and Laura Pinyol. And in this case I must say that, on the part of Mrs Pinyol, in addition to being an impeded separatist, it seemed to me a profound rudeness. All of these finger-appointed positions will receive a salary of EUR 114,000 per head per year. Look, since VOX, we're not going to endorse this chair distribution. Neither this nor any. From VOX we will not tolerate the institutions being used to place political commissioners in all the bodies and entities that they can. Since VOX – and we have already said this on other occasions – we do not believe in the existence of the ACC, that governing body of the media in Catalonia, an entity that does not regulate or do anything to guarantee freedom and neutrality and political pluralism in the public media. The ACC is responsible – and has historically done so – for endorsing and protecting the propaganda use that separatism exerts on the public media of the Generality. We will vote against these appointments and continue to work to close the CAC, just as we will work to close that barrage of hatred and sectarianism that is now TV3. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.144.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word deputy Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.145.0	Thank you very much, President. President, deputies and deputies, councillor, people present at the plenary... Before starting, only let's say that it is regrettable, curious and regrettable, that which went to the session of the CAI, in which the most extreme right – they have done so in this case VOX and Ciutadans – the only candidate to which they have insulted, to which they have personally disqualified is a woman and young. [[Greetings.]] Well, say you need to apologize for this behavior. Well, I already told the CAI, at each of the appearances. I will also reiterate today to the plenary, because, as I said before, the global agreement to distribute falls on behalf of the three parties – PSC, Esquerra and Junts – also affects and contaminates the election of members of the Board of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. The contaminant and does not allow people who present themselves to be valued for their professional value, because the whole process is marked for their connections to political parties and for the fact that they have been a currency of change between the parties. And that's not what we say, okay, or, anyway, it's not just us. I have been told of prestige as the Ramon Barnils Group of Journalists, as the professional councils and business committees of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, as the Union of Journalists of Catalonia, trade unions, candidatures of workers, drawings of entities. These are the ones who have promoted a manifesto, who have signed it drawings of entities, drawings of professionals. A manifesto that claims, from this point of view professionally, that the necessary renewal of the roles of the Audiovisual Media Corporation linked to ACC is done in a process that exceeds party quotas and posts for independent, truthful and quality media. They don't pose with the names in concrete, they pose with the fact in conjunction. I was looking for an opportune date today to say here, to reflect the mark that contextualizes the sad, shameless, and I find that I feel like the citizen, like the deputy, that we feel like the political space serving democratic radicality, the social justice and freedom of this country, serving citizenship, which is what the media pay for. It's citizenry. And, therefore, to the service of free and quality communication means. Sad for this bad practice, which, among other things, gives the most radical motive against any control over the free market of the media, any control over the trading of the media or over the use of the partyist and client of the media; to which the more they are against the media it gives reason to recreate themselves there to say here the barbarities that we have felt and that we will feel against an organism of high prestige and of a great quality, which should be preserved from all this calamity. What you have done with this agreement is close and comparable to a political culture that we want far from here, a political culture that was defended by the socialist representative saying that it is the one that is done throughout the country. But they don't even have an organization like ACC in the state. And, in the new law of the audiovisual, the Socialist Party has tried to carry the ACC, wants to take away the competitions. And the parties that have now voiced against this political agreement have made it clear that they are defending the ACC, which they are actually doing, is, from the State, avoiding any kind of regulation. Precisely, from this model of culture of political control and ideological discrimination we have not had stellar episodes to Spanish television, which we have so much criticized. It's a political culture from which this country, this society, has turned and we've wanted to go. We, of course, will vote against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.146.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.147.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, candidates for the renewal of the Catalonia Audiovisual Council... We will not say anything that we have not already told the CAI during the hearings, and that, obviously, beyond the personal and professional profiles that can hold each one, we have to express here is our enormous – enormous – disappointment at how the renewal of the CAC has again been managed. Because we had a law in 2019 that, supposedly, was worthy of this name, which he bet to look for and generate these great consensuses, which President Aragonès always talks about. But these big consensuses seem that at the end they just feel more like themselves, and it's more like falling apart. The great difference – yes, it has to be recognized – is that before they were divided between two and now they were divided between three. Therefore, the great beneficiaries of a whole law that was made to put the hopes in which the renewal of the CAC and of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation was a redignification of the public media of Catalonia followed the PSC, which, indeed, thanks to this renewal, has managed some cadres that perhaps in another way did not have them. From this point of view, he commends the PSC for its ability to negotiate and achieve more falls. You're falling for more than yourself. Because in the end, and I'm hard to say, but the composition of the Catalan Audiovisual Council and what has been learned through the media that will be the proposals that will be made for the renewal of the governing council of the corporation..., there is still a majority of three independenceists and two falls for the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Therefore, we will see again those nice scenes in which the ACC reports are approved for a majority of the three independence parties and a particular vote of the two MPs and MPs proposed for the PSC. Let's look at the reports of political pluralism, for example, what happens. Therefore, all this work that we have had all this time to try to renew the law so that it is different, so that we can identify these organizations, so that we can identify these institutions, so that there is a professional recognition of the governing board of the corporation, of the CAC as an entity that is truly independent of parties' interests, actually that it ages for the quality and quantity of the audio-visual in Catalonia, for the ethical principles that will govern it, for its independence, for its political neutrality, so that is all that we have asked for, because in the end it is again an agreement between three – that is to say, three great parties – to remain with the fallen differences. And I also know it's hard to say, because there's been talk about the support that this has had for different sectors. So let's teach me. But I didn't see it, did I? What I have seen is the statement of the Journalist College, for example, which speaks very clearly of the fact that it was very disappointing, this agreement, that it was already touching – the truth is that I don't understand why we have so much worked out to end up doing what we have done – but also the criteria that have been given priority by the distribution of chairs as a function of finality and political proximity. No one says they can't have professional criteria, even though it has to be said that in some places you look at the résumé and the cost of seeing it the relationship that could have had with the audiovisual world in Catalonia. Coast, with the lowest coast. But beyond that, and that they may do a lot of good work from their professional and personal experience, what is clear is that the criteria that have prevailed are the criteria of political division. Congresswoman Sabater also talked about it, didn't she? , of the manifesto that was made for the renewal of the corporation. And I'd really like to read a paragraph, wouldn't I? because, indeed, it was the manifesto that spoke of a process that surpassed party and post quotas for independent, truthful and quality media. And I would like to read the quote, because, indeed, professional designs and entities would require that democratic parliamentary forces be replaced to seek broad consensus, abandon party interests and complete the election process of the new direction of the corporation by listening to all the sectors involved. This is the only way we can ensure that, in the face of the public media of the Generalitat, there are people who are worthy and accredited for an innovative and independent management project, and that they have as their sole objective to make the corporation an engine for rigorous and plural information and that it is a reference for the whole society. We also listened to more of God, almost twenty, entities for corporate renewal. They have not been listened to, at all; they have finished the party interests first, and this should cause the shame of this Parliament to fall for which it is voting today, for how it has been done and for what result it will have. In a week on which, in addition, we know that the director of TV3 has shareholder relations with a company that subcontracts the same TV3; that is, the best time to revitalize the image of the public media in Catalonia. We, indeed, will vote against it. We would vote against it, above all, as it has been done and as it has squandered expectations and the illusion that there are many people in the audiovisual communications and journalism sector in this country because things could be different, but it does not seem to be yet. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.148.0	It is now the return of Congresswoman Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.149.0	Good afternoon, President. I would like to begin my speech by apologizing to one of the candidates for the ACC, Laura Pinyol. I said something the other day that wasn't true. I said that she... her greatest professional merit had been to be Mr. Bargalló's chief of press. Well, it wasn't Mr. Bargalló's, it was Mr. Carod-Rovira's. My apologies. But, anyway, everything stays in the family, everything doesn't matter. It didn't feel right about her. But, well, if you don't want them to be accused of endogamy and of sharing their charges between friends and relatives, it's very easy, don't do it – don't do it – don't go into the change of chromosomes. That is, do not allow the public media in Catalonia, it corporated, who controls them, to be an agency of placement, of traffic of influences and, according to the National Audience, even of black money, even of three percent. Well, despite some remarkable profiles, such as Rosa Maria Molló's and some others, which really dignify this candidacy, for that, as has already been said here – and not only we say it – the shadow of endogamy, of suspicion, of invalid chrome change..., that is, this CAC is born dead, as dead was already the previous one. There has been talk here of paralysis, long-term with expired mandates. Let's call things by their name, gentlemen. What happened here? Why could neither ACC nor any other of these posts not be renewed in the past legislature? Very simple, because the last legislature there was an alternative majority, an alternative majority to separatism and separatism with gabardine and wig of the gentlemen of the PSC, who, of course, passed the legislature by blocking, paralysing and pinching so that there would not be a truly plural renewal, which could truly open the door to something different. And here we are – here we are. Now, let's say, the twists have changed... well, it's just... now it's yours. So, well, what do you say? Well, well, I guess the famous PSC document promising refoundation, rather of recasting, in the sense of melting it definitely. Look, gentlemen of the PSC, I don't know if you don't care, you don't care about everything, you don't care about the corporation, you don't care about the media in Catalonia, you don't care about the CAC – you really think it doesn't sting or cut – if it's a currency of exchange or if you just hope to get it too, because there's no other explanation. The surprising thing, both in this and in the above-mentioned endogamy, is the boldness. I mean, it's true that this happens in many places, it happens elsewhere – usually in governments also involved by you – but normally, man, there's a certain disguise, there's a certain fair play, because I don't know, appearances are a little saved. Here what attracts attention is the feeling of invisibility, of impunity, that the emperor is naked, the PSC is naked. Well, I guess, that's why Mr. Illa isn't here, he'll have gone to dress himself. But, well, finally, of course, we are going to vote against it, like other groups. Obviously, we do not have a majority right now to curb this new barbarity. But I'll tell you one thing: we'll have it again. [[Rialles.]] We'll have you back with invaluable cooperation... Yes, you don't laugh so much, because you represent a party that has been about to disappear in democracy several times. [[Some applause.]] The last time Pilar Rahola – conspicua tertuliana on TV3 – left them literally in panties, dropping off with the charges and the money. [[Widow's remorse.]] And not to mention Junts by Catalunya, heir to a missing party and with the sieges seized for corruption. Life is turning around, so is politics, but in this case I must admit that we are very optimistic, because, with this indescribable governance and this innumerable opposition, we hope to have an important alternative majority soon. Let's hope people realize what happens when there's no such alternative majority here. And from here I give you my commitment, my word and that of the entire Citizens' Group that we will fix this. This time we have learned the lesson, which you cannot be trusted. We do not want to close either the CAC or corporató it; we believe Catalonia has the right – it has the right – we all have the right to free, clean and plural media. And when the storm escapes from their corruption and their indignity, here we will be to provide them. Thank you very much. Guess what we're gonna vote for. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.150.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.151.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, unfortunately, more of the same – more of the same – with this global agreement, which has not only appointed the members of the Union of Accounts, as we spoke before, but also, in this case, the members who are part of the CAC. The Socialist MEP was asked, who is also the chairman of the Commission of the Audiovisual Media Corporation of Catalonia, what method has been used to choose, right? - He was telling us from this rostrum. Well, one older than the black thread: « dedocracy, they call it; it is political affinity, it is that of political quotas, simply. What do you say that this is also done in other autonomous communities and other institutions? Well, maybe what we could have saved ourselves is the paripé we've been riding here for the last few months. Because I want to remind you – and I insist that you are the president of the corporation – that we have been listening to the sector for months, listening to the professionals; journalists' unions, company committees, members of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia have come... We have made them believe that we were listening to them, we have made them believe that their voice mattered, we have made them believe that the proposals they made to us were being taken into consideration. And all of a sudden, you get out of the way this agreement, which is shameful and which is a scandal, and not because it is my opinion – which is also my opinion – but it is an opinion of the Journalists' Union itself, which has brought to us all some claims and complaints that I believe will have taken the colors at least – at least. Because what they are demanding is precisely what they were promised, and it is that the members of ACC were going to be people who were going to carry out work of independence, plurality, transparency, informational rigour. And you are going to allow me to doubt it, to doubt it very much, simply seeing who you have already appointed as president of the ACC, which then we will have the opportunity to speak more deeply. But I already, with that director, doubt very much that the music that plays this orchestra will, as I say, be independent, plural, transparent and rigorous. You have olympically skipped even what the audiovisual law of 2019 puts, a law that, moreover, makes it very clear that this body has to act with full independence, neutrality and not be subjected to any instruction or indication in the exercise of its functions. I am told how this will happen when, I insist, the criterion here has been that of political quotas and that of political affinity. You have also received – I insist, from the Journalists' Union itself, they remembered it – several petitions from forty entities, forty organizations and one hundred and forty professionals. They have not heard at all any – none. It's just that it's a real shame. You want to come here, bake, market, talk to your partners, to those who were going to make an opposition, let's go, magnificent, the alternative government, such, such, such. Great, but don't come here and set up the theater. Don't have us for months listening to appearances, don't make the professionals believe that we are aware of them. It's just, honestly, it seems to me like a hairpin and it also seems to me a lack of respect – a lack of respect. We have many – many – problems with the lack of independence and objectivity of Catalonia's public media. Continuously in the corporation we are denouncing these facts, and it turns out that we will put in charge of those who have to ensure that objectivity and neutrality nothing less than Mr Xirgo. I do not know who they want to deceive with this covenant, selling us here these goodnesses, but certainly not to us. We are not going to get it, and we are going to vote against this agreement, which, I repeat, seems to us to be a scandal. To us and the professionals in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.152.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.153.0	Good evening, Members, Members, Councillors, candidates and candidates... Let me first point out the importance of this agreement and of this procedure which today, certainly with a great deal of delay – criticism and self-criticism – we will be in charge. It looks like it's commonplace, but it's an important and robust deal for the next few years, because it will reflect the strength of the consensus of more than two thirds of the chamber, the minimal consensus that the law requires to renew the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia and the rest of the institutions that emanate from this Parliament, as we are doing this late. We will not repeat the individual value of each member of the future CAC, as the CAI has already valued, but we will put in value precisely the team that results with Mr. Xevi Xirgo, Mrs. Rosa Maria Molló, Mr. Miquel Miralles, Mrs. Laura Pinyol and Mr. Enric Casas. A team that will be the maximum of partners, a polyhedral team, a prepared team, a diverse team, in which the sum of resumes and work experiences will be the foundations suitable to be at the forefront of the challenges of the independent authority of regulation of the audiovisual communication of Catalonia, the ACC, and that will have to be done in a context of maximum transformation of the sector and that will continue to take hold of the replete of the good work that Mr. Roger Lopacher has led in the past years, not without difficulties. The CAC, both in the public and private sphere – we do not forget it – and in a time of fake news and populism and in a time of growing totalitarian and rude discourses, must age for political, social, religious, cultural and thought pluralism. This is one of the functions of the ACC. The CAC has many reptes. It has the challenge of continuing to age for the compliment of linguistic pluralism as well, working for a social use of catalá masse down to the plataforms– as the same CAC reported last week–, working to accompany the process of framing the Catalan audiovisual communication law– from my point of view, this is an important challenge, working with this Parliament to update the Catalan audiovisual law of the year 2005, so that this law will follow the appropriate standard set adapted to the new reality of the audiovisual landscape–, to ensure the skills of the same council as the regulatory authority, for the recovery of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans Audiovisual, for the creation of an audiovisual hub, and for many other things to be carried out. We are aware of the transcendence of the audiovisual fact in so many aspects, which must be a guarantee of the future of Catalan society. Audiovisual is the great monumental battle for the next few years. A country audiovisual, quality; an audiovisual for people and proximity. The CAC also has the challenge of continuing to strive for the compliment of legislation on the protection of children and adolescents, to advance in programs such as now eduCAT, to promote media education among young people, and to age for the compliment of legislation on advertising, so as to be able to issue the preceptive reports that it has assigned to its functions. All this is the burden that this Parliament urges the CAC. We believe, as I said, in this procedure and we will vote in full favour of it. We believe that this Parliament already has the obligation to renew its bodies and to do so with this great consensus. As I said, it's a strong consensus and a good agreement, so the council feels formally well-rounded by the chamber. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.154.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.155.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise... Good afternoon to everyone. Candidates who accompanied us... In the first place, I would like to begin by thanking the members of the CAC for the work done and, therefore, even if they are not here, by thanking them for the work done. As has been said in this plenary, we are about to approve the renewal of the members who are part of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. A very important piece of news, as we understand it, because it allows, from the outset, as has already been said, to renew an organ that has expired, but also an organ where only two of its members are in force. At the same time, this renewal is possible a few days from now the renewal also of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, and it does so at a time when we understand that it is key for the sector, especially for the audiovisual sector in Catalan language. We find ourselves in a process of transformation – now Congressman Ten said – constant in this sector, with a strong impact of digitalisation, which has led to a radical change in audiovisual consumption habits. We just need to look at the young people, and not so young, that we have around us to see how they consume communication media. A transformation that is now accompanied by a modification of the standard mark that regulates the sector. We remember that 2018 approved the European directive and that we are currently dealing with Spanish audiovisual law and also with Catalan audiovisual law. Therefore, in this context of change, of transformation, it is imperative to renew the governing organs of both the CAC, as we are today, as well as the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, as we will be doing a few weeks from now. For what it does to the approval that today we realize, a couple of considerations to answer some of the criticisms that have felt today in this faristol. The first is that this renewal – also as Congressman Ten has said – up with the support of more than two thirds of the Parliament, while the five members who are proposing, who we will choose today, arrive at the proposal of three political formations. We think it's worth highlighting, because the change in the law that we approved in 2019, this requirement, that we require a qualified majority to choose these candidates, is superior to what the previous law provided. There wasn't enough with an absolute majority on the second round. Therefore, it is broader, the consensus that is required for this renewal. Therefore, the composition of the council that today we will approve up with this broad consensus, and we will not deny – it is true, as at least from the perspective of the Republican Left – that we have been pleased that this consensus has been wider. But, in any case, we cannot fail to celebrate what we believe is essential and what we believe today is an agreement that will allow us this renewal, as we say, as necessary. Another question we want to identify is the composition of this council, which returns to the structure of five members; it goes from six members, as we now have, to five. It is a modification that is also ugly in this legislative change that is produced in 2019. Just like you need to have a partner organ. We believe that it is essential that an organization that, among many other questions, has to fight for the presence of women in communication media, can do nothing but preach by example. And, coming concretely into the election that we are doing today, as I said, I would like to thank the five candidates who take what we think is a repte and do, in all cases, after a very broad career path in the field of communication in each of their fields. This very week, in the Committee on Institutional Affairs, we were not only able to listen to their résumés, to the résumés of all five, but we were able to already listen to the first brushstrokes of where this Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia should go to adapt this body, which was a pioneer in Catalonia, to the needs and the reality of this 21st century, which, as we say, is a changing reality. In our view, a strengthening of the international presence of the CAC through participation in the different regulatory networks with the challenge of being able to participate in the ERGA, working to guarantee the rights of citizens, and in particular the rights of minors in the context of the audiovisual offer in relation to harmful content, harmful content, misinformation and also hate speech, or promoting digital literacy are some of the challenges that must be addressed, we understand, by this new Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. It is obvious that they have a lot of work to do, but we celebrate that they can face it as a team, as you yourself say, as you explained this week, with the full conviction that they will do this very well done job, always prioritizing the rights of the citizenry and, in particular, the rights of the underage. They have the support of our parliamentary group. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.156.0	Let's move on, then, to the designation. Yes, Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.157.0	By virtue of Article 16, by conflict of interest, I shall not take part in this vote, nor shall I take part in it in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.158.0	Perfect, thank you very much, Mr. Riera. According to Article 4.2 of Law 2/2000 of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, a majority of two thirds is required for the candidates to be elected. The vote shall be electronic and secret, in accordance with Rule 101.3 of the Rules of Procedure. We will, therefore, begin the joint vote of all the candidates questioned. The vote begins. The final result is 97 votes in favour, 31 votes against, a Member who does not vote. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Therefore, as the required majority has sunk, all five candidates who had been offered are appointed members of the Board of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. Congratulations, get out and be sure. [[Procedure for electing the President of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia]] [[285,000,0001/12]] Let's go to the dissette point of the order of the day, the procedure to elect the president of the Board of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. And, since the five members of the Council of Audiovisual, of which one of them has been proposed to preside over it, have been appointed in the past, the announcement that the President's name, as a candidate for President of the Council of Audiovisual of Catalonia, is that of Mr. Xevi Xirgo and Teixidor. According to Article 4.3 of Law 2/2000, of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, the president of the Council is elected for a majority of two thirds of the members who are members of the Council. Also, as at the Board of Spokesmen it was asked that the parliamentary groups could make an intervention at this point, with three minutes of time, has the word, first of all, Mr David Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.159.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, Mr. Counselor, Members of Parliament, Mr. Candidate... Allow me, above all, briefly, to thank the councils that have given us other games a while ago. You think that, because of their representativeness, I'd rather stay with my convictions. But above all, the saying that the PSC has been the one who did not want to reach this agreement in the previous legislature is not believed to be anyone – it is not believed to be anyone. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Xirgo, the candidate for President of the Catalonian Audiovisual Council, the Xevi Xirgo, has committed several before the Commission of Institutional Affairs to ensure the compliance of the standards of agreement with the principles of pluralism, neutrality, freedom of information, if chosen by the carrec. This solemn compromise before this Parliament, before the CAI, before the Committee on Institutional Affairs, for our group, the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, has a very high value, especially from which we came – especially from which we came. Or have you lost the memory of what happened to TV3 in the last few months? Look, the agreement of the three groups of this chamber is deep, it's low, it's deep, it's the cornerstone, it's the cornerstone that has to bring us to restore normality to the CAC and the public media of the corporation, to have institutions and public media from all over the world. We are not convinced– we are not convinced–, just as we are convinced that a good part of the groups that today do not endorse this agreement will at a time convince us that it is, that this was a good agreement to restore the public service missions that have both the CAC and the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Many thanks, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.160.0	Thank you very much. It has the word now, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.161.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Mr. President... well, this is already brazen, isn't it? This already, separatist gentlemen, passes a little from the line. This is laughing at people, this is laughing at institutions, this is wanting to take Catalans for fools. Look, as I was telling you, in this chair distribution, Junts has taken the fat guy – he's taken the fat guy. And you with the caciquism that accompanies you have appointed or are going to appoint President of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, the governing body of the media, Mr Xevi Xirgo. Look, ACC has as its principles of action the defence of freedom of expression and information, pluralism, neutrality and information honesty. And, of course, I wonder: I don't know if anyone can tell me how I see that independence, freedom, guarantee, defence of this political pluralism can bring Mr Xevi Xirgo. Let us be frank, Mr Xevi Xirgo is one of the least suitable people to carry and bear these responsibilities. Look, do you know what this gentleman's great merits are? First of all, he is the author of « Puigdemont's adventures on the run, he is the author of the biography of Mr.Carles Puigdemont, that thumper who fled into a trunk. And the second great merit of this gentleman is to have been the director of El Punt Avui, a_medio which, as we all know, is an authentic separatist propaganda apparatus. These are the great merits of this subject who will preside over the CAC and who will have the responsibility to regulate the media in Catalonia. And since VOX we have made it clear and we have repeated it many times and we will continue to repeat it: we are here to confront the separatist mafia, we are here to denounce all the corruptions of separatism. And, as we say, we're going to vote against and we're going to work to close the CAC and close the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.162.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.163.0	Thank you very much. Well, before I ran out of time without telling them the date, that I told them I was looking for an appointment and that it was hard for me to find it. And finally, a quote came to my head from the great reporter, the Kapuscinski, who says that the cynics don't serve the journalist's office. And it came to me because it's an authentic cynicism exercise that we're listening to here today. On one side, the right, which is the most advocate of the lack of controls and that the free market of the audiovisual market can be governed by the neoliberal laws that favor the great undertakings of the communication media, and that, moreover, they live and have experienced this cognition of the communication media for their political purposes, are here pontificating against the political use of these organizations. And while we ourselves pervert an organism that must fight against any perversion, an organism of great prestige, an organism that is admiring itself... We here from the year 96 have the ACC, precisely because we are moving away from those policies that we already have, reminded ourselves of the socialist representative, who are the ones that exist throughout the State. We have been admiring ourselves in the Ofcom of the United Kingdom, we have sought to be referents of these audiovisual controls, because audiovisual is very important and audiovisual education is to have a quality journalism in a strong democracy. And it is essential that the people who are at the head of the ACC, who must be absolutely unquestionable..., and the political link of those who are chosen, in this case the president, what generates is a contradiction with the aims and essence independent of the ACC. And it gives little..., it basically gives little to political groups that do not want any kind of control to take hold of this, which is essential and of great prestige for our country and for the work it has to defend a pillar of democracy as important as freedom and plurality and dignity in the media. Therefore, we reaffirm ourselves. We think it was a mistake, regardless of the professional value of the chosen people; it is a strategic, tactical error, having made this type of election. We reaffirm ourselves in the vote against. And we'll work because it never happens again in the next renovation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.164.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.165.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Xirgo, and without knowing us, from here I can only wish him out and uncertain because he will need it, and many, because, sadly, for everything we have already explained, his name doesn't go very well. Nor does it help that you have given up your previous job fifteen days before this Parliament appoints you, because, indeed, you do not show much respect for the real and effective capacity that this Parliament has to appoint its seat. Therefore, we believe that it was not a good decision to abandon its previous media before being nominated for this Parliament. He had to suffer last week when the suspension of parliamentary activity did not make the CAI that was planned. Luckily, the allies you have here in Parliament ran to call for an extraordinary session. We insist very much that everything that has been done generates disillusionment and despair. It was commented: we felt many entities that gave us what was to be the profile for corporate renewal and what were to be the profiles that were at the head of the Catalan Audiovisual Council. The guarantee of independence and political neutrality was one of the themes that came out most often. It's one of the themes that comes most out of the corporate control commissions. The Socialist Party of Catalonia is one of the themes on which he asks the most in corporate control sessions. With the renewal of the Catalonian Audiovisual Council with you in the lead and with the names that came out of the press for the renewal of the ‘body's governing council, we don't think we see the changes that need the public media in Catalonia, we don't think we see them. But we'll have to give them, so what they say, these hundred days of grace and wait to see if there are actually changes. We'll have to wait for the first reports from ACC. We will have to wait if the proper reports on political pluralism say something different than what the past said, which was approved with the vote against the president of the ACC, because what the majority said that still remained of those who resisted the ACC managed to impose a report on political pluralism that was different from what they had previously done, which already makes a lot of these reports question. But, in addition, we also expect that the things that we are seeing and that are going on and that are denouncing themselves to go to funded programs with TV3 resources..., we hope that the CAC will be strong enough to stop passing, so that there will be no more messages, because there will be no more petitions, because there will be no more petitions, because there will be no more attacks on the Gypsy people. We understand that there will be a sooner and later, and we hope that he will have, as he said, a lot of luck and uncertainty, because the work ahead of him is long and will be very vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.166.0	It is now the return of Congresswoman Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.167.0	Thank you, President. Briefly, for allusions to Mr. David Pérez. I love you, too, but, as you put it, here the only ones that we do not change chromes, being neither in the government nor in the opposition, nor with six Members, nor with sixty, nor with one hundred and twenty, are Citizens, and we have proved it, because everywhere we have remained untaken. The PSC and the PSOE bake with TV3, bake with Radio Televisión Española, bake with the judiciary, bake with European funds, and because right now I don't think of any more open pastry shops. By the way, that also applies to the People's Party. I insist, Ciutadans is the only party that has shown that, whether it governs or not, with more deputies and less, it does not change chromosomes. He doesn't do these things, we don't do them. "That's how it goes, they'll say. Well, that's how it goes for you, because just like this step you'll have to look for a CAC to control the CAC. Focusing on Mr. Xirgo's candidacy. Well, I already expressed deep reticence in the CAI the other day about their suitability. I don't care so much, as I said, about who writes biographies, but, well, you don't seem to have a management history that's out of the question. I asked you the other day at the CAI if it is true, as I have been informed, that you, as director of the television of El Punt diari, of El Punt Avui, asked for a credit of 120,000_euros to the Institut Català de Finanzas, which for that is, and that you never returned it. You denied it to me, you denied it, and I take the floor. Now, I also tell you that my sources insist that this is not the case, that we have the open investigation, that we will continue to ask for it. And, well, the better it's true for him, the better he can keep that word he gave us. We will be attentive..., and the same that applies to you applies to any former member of the CAC or the corporation, which includes – and I say so with pain – the director of TV3 still, Vincent Sanchis, who has been my director, who has been my friend, which I believe, in a way, that I am still his friend. But, well, as Aristotle said: « I am a friend of Plato, but I am more a friend of the truth. And, well, with the latest information on influence trafficking and something more than influence and corruption trafficking, anyway, let's just say that Citizens don't stop investigating someone because they drop out of office. We will continue to be the lame fly of all the corporative corruptions and of what is not corporative. I'm sorry, we'll vote against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.168.0	It has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, by allusions, I see myself in the obligation to respond to Mrs Grau, who says that Citizens do not change chromes. The approval of PDECAT's budgets at the City Hall of Premià de Mar in exchange for an advisor is not chrome change, from the entire album – from the entire album. But, well, hey, everyone... [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway, let's go to what we have to do, which is Mr. Xirgo's appointment as president of the ACC. That the PSC was going to follow nationalism, I... [[Widow's remorse.]] President, if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.170.0	Yes, please, let's remember the silence and also the code of conduct for everyone, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.171.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, he said that the PSC was going to follow nationalism, so it was already a secret to voices, with Iceta as president and Illa as minister and Illa as president and Iceta as minister. Because the order of factors, in this case, does not alter the product. When the PSC has the key, constitutionalism goes wrong. Although there is a remarkable difference with Mr.Iceta: Miquel you saw him coming from afar. And it is true that Salvador Illa, with his calmness, with his tone, with his empty promises, managed to get someone to believe that he was coming to rescue us from the separatist decadence, but nothing further from reality. Salvador Illa has taken those constitutionalist vows, in good faith, and put them at the service of the most radical independence. The last show, this marcas pact, which we've been talking about all afternoon, with Esquerra and Junts, in this case, to keep mangonating on TV3. There was no other to put at the head of the ACC than Mr. Xevi Xirgo, the biographer of Puigdemont and close friend, although, for the case we are dealing with, I think that is the least relevant of his résumé. I don't care how much Mr. Xirgo chooses his friends, but his performances in front of El Punt Avui, I do care. The Punt Avui, which is a_medium watered with money and with millionaire subsidies from the Generalitat, does not know plurality nor even if it is faced with it. Nor rigor; Mr. Xirgo is a fan of euphemisms. Fleeing from justice in a trunk at night calls it "exile." I don't know, maybe you need to review the definition. Well, in his experience as director of El Punt Avui, he recommended, for example, not to inform himself through other means, although here I have to say that I, in this case, understand him, because, of course, reading and data are the kryptonite of racist nationalism. Xirgo, moreover, was sanctioned by the body itself that will now preside, that this is already curling the curl. I mean, how are you going to ensure compliance if you yourself were sanctioned for failing to comply with the regulations? I just think it's a drawer. But, well, if this is the profile of one who must ensure freedom of expression, information, pluralism and information neutrality, then turn it off and let's go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.172.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, of Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.173.0	Again, good late, president, advisors, vice president, president. From the intervention of VOX, you stayed with the literal quote of Mr Tarradas : « Let us be frank. [[Give me the applause.]] In line with what we said in the previous intervention, before the repres that we have expressed before, Mr. Xevi Xirgo is today proposed to be at the front of the ACC team. Its thirty-five-year history in the communications sector, in the radio sector and, above all, in Catalan television and press, independent and local, in countless projects and different media. Mr. Xirgo is convinced of the relevancy of proximity communication media, and it seems to us that he can bring a new look to the ACC in this line. The CAC that will preside, let's hope, Xevi Xirgo must continue to vet for the legal and legalized application of the català to the conjunction of the plataforms. The Catalan society has to hold a Catalan audiovisual and a body that rules the sector. We, two thirds of this chamber, propose that he preside over this council. Xevi Xirgo was also a trainer during his step towards university teaching, in which he defended, before his students, that, in this world of communication, not everything goes; that, as the professional, it is necessary to separate and defend that is different from the information of the opinion. As he said himself, "the facts are sacred and opinions, free. And I say writing books is not a problem to disable charges; democratic radicality and compromises. Because, in front of the ACC, we want professionally convinced of the values of journalism: coherence, integrity. Values necessary and essential to regulate and age and, as we have said before, for transparency, for pluralism, for political, social, cultural, religious and thought pluralism. It was not just his step towards teaching and relating it to the new generations that gave him a view of the new forms of audiovisual consumption. Xirgo transmits passó for journalism; professes and will demand professional excellence. We and the CAC will live and age for the backs of our changing and changing society, in which there are, continuously, we operators, old and formed and that, since the Parliament, we would demand that the CAC rules and not inform and vet, both in the public and private sector, to defend the smallest of dubious practices, to preserve them from masked messages and hidden illegal advertising. So, we will vote in favour of the agreement of more than two thirds of the chamber to renew this CAC team and why the president Mr Xevi Xirgo. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.174.0	Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.175.0	Thank you very much, President, President. It's good to see you again. I'll take advantage of this second intervention to congratulate Mr. Xirgo and Mr. Molló and Mr. Pinyol and Mr. Miralles and Mr. Casas on the challenge they're about to take over. I'm not going in now to explain Mr. Xirgo's résumé. The deputy who preceded me, Congressman Ten, did very well. So add me to Mr Ten's words. From the Republican Left Group, we want to take advantage of this intervention to say that we understand that it involved a renewal of the people who are part of this Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia, but we also understand that after twenty-two years it plays a re-foundation, it plays a repositioning of an organ that has been pioneering in the State. We don't want to close anything – we give them to the ultrathreat – because they have never managed to open anything. Therefore, I do not need to lock up any organ, in this case, regulator, because it does not exist. As we say, he's a pioneer organ in Catalonia, and we understand that he needs a refoundation and a repositioning. And, beyond certain speeches and authentic barbarities that we have listened to in this Faristol, we would like to recall that the regulatory bodies, such as the ACC, are a guarantee of democratic quality in societies. In the previous intervention, he listed some of the challenges ahead, in addition to the protection of citizenship and education in communication, to which we have already referred. There is one issue that we are talking about very little, but we believe that it is also very important: the CAC must regulate, but it must also accompany the Catalan sector in the process of transformation, with the aim of making it more competitive, more viable, with quality content, public service and in Catalan, in Catalan language; it is essential, this function also of the Catalan Audiovisual Council. So, as you see, as you know, the new tea board, they have a lot of folds in front of them. We wish them much luck and much uncertainty, because their uncertainties will be the uncertainties of the country's media, and ultimately their uncertainties will be a guarantee of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.176.0	So we'll move on to the assignment. Remember that the vote will be done in an electronic and secret manner, in accordance with Rule 101.3 of the Rules of Procedure. Let's start the vote. The vote begins. With 97 votes in favour, 30 votes against and one Member who does not vote, given that the required majority has been consolidated, Mr Xevi Xirgo and Teixidor is appointed President of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. Congratulations, get out and be sure. [[Greetings.]] [[Procedure for appointing the Director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority]] [[284-00027/11]] Let's move on to the split point of the order of the day, the procedure for appointing the director..., the director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority. Once the proposal has been rejected by the Data Protection Adviser Council and the candidate's appearance, Mrs. Meritxell Borràs and Sole, before the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the past February 7th, we will proceed to start the appointment. The parliamentary groups will intervene for a maximum of three minutes, as agreed to by the Board of Spokesmen. There is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.177.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll try not to repeat myself, but some things have to be said. In the first place, a thank you to the director leaving for the work done during these years to the Catalan Authority of Data Protection. Many uncertainties that the new director, Meritxell Borràs, is expected to be; many uncertainties and well returned here to Parliament. You got a lot of work to do, huh? Many things have happened since that 2010 law protecting the Catalan Data Protection Authority: big data, internet data trading, online trade, social networks, right to protection of personal data, surveillance cameras, etc. Therefore, and with the update of the European Data Protection Regulation, I think we need to work very hard, certainly also in the updating of our law, to see how we guarantee the rights of data protection of all Catalans and Catalans. Mrs. Errás, already in the committee we did, meets the attached conditions to occupy this position of director. And, therefore, I would only like to add a little more political than not so technical. And that's what I'd like to say, too... every one, obviously, speaks freely, and the nuances are the importance, the essence, of the debates we make. But alert to make determined follow-up of VOX's speech, that he wants to close the ACC, he wants to close..., I don't know if he wants to close the Catalan Autoritat de Protección de Dades – surely also, now they will tell us – he wants to close the union as well. And, therefore, to say..., man, come here after five speeches that then fuel this feeling that these statutory bodies, that all, many, agree with ensuring democratic quality..., so, man, what we have to do is put it in value, put in value the institutions and put in value the agreements, that as much as we complained that we had cost so many years later. So, now that we have them, with practically 100 deputies and deputies... and so much more good. And here's where I think we need to explain the nuances, even all the contrarios to this agreement. We're doing a modification, proposing a change in the law to try..., or we're all trying to get us to expand these agreements, to make..., maybe modify the procedure by which the directors or members are to be appointed, but we're always trying, from a positive point of view, that these do..., trying to make these institutions work better. Therefore, to extend agreements, yes, but to make magic, no, because we are doing little favor to the institutions and to the credibility of what we are doing all the Members and Members here. Therefore, a thank you to all the parliamentary groups and to all the people who have negotiated that today we can be voting here, that we can, as we said before, correct an anomaly that hurt us all. And, above all, to justify one of the criticisms that will come after the position of the PSC: the PSC has always been to unlock these star situations, to listen and to agree, also with the groups of Juntes, d'Esquerra, the CUP, the commons, the PP and all those who have proposals to put on the table. Therefore, we agree, in the difference and in the discrepancy, but to agree, to go forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.178.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, of Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.179.0	Good afternoon again, Madam President. Thank you to the previous rapporteur. I have to tell him that I've had a little bit of a speech and discovered some of what I was going to say, but good. Well, also... I think you'd have to ask if you guys would do what if we weren't here. I don't think..., they'd have plenty of time – they'd have plenty of time. [[Some applause.]] Well, let's talk about what we've come here..., because, as a result of that infamous agreement between you, the Socialist Party, and the separatist parties, the usual, Republican Left and Junts, to distribute the chairs of the high public offices in Catalonia, the three parties bring us their proposal to name the coup player – people must be called by their name: coup player– Meritxell Borràs as director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority. The Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez and Salvador Illa makes us this proposal which should be ashamed of them. Article 7.3 of Law 32/2010 of the Catalan Data Protection Authority states that "the Director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority is appointed from among persons with experience in data protection. Important – important –, the data. And it's worth the word game. At the appearance at the committee this week, it became clear that Mrs Borràs – Meritxell – had no experience in data protection, as required by law. And, therefore, she could not be elected to this post. So, if Mrs Borràs does not meet the legal requirement, why are you bringing us this proposal today? Because this lady is from the Junts party and she has played this position in the division of office agreed in that infamous pact. [[Some applause.]] Article 5 of the above-mentioned Act describes the functions of this body which wishes to preside over Mrs Borràs, mentioning as the first of them to ensure compliance with existing legislation – to ensure compliance with existing legislation. It's ironic, isn't it? We want to ensure that the law is enforced by a person who is known, precisely, for failing to comply with the law, for his participation in the 2017 coup d'état. And in spite of that, or perhaps precisely because of that, the Socialist Party proposes that we appoint her director of this body, for which the batter lady will receive a salary of one hundred and thousand euros a year. A golden retreat– 100_000_euros – for a person loyal to the coup player Puigdemont who we will pay among all Catalans. Is there greater infamy? But, as I said before, there is an alternative. From VOX we commit ourselves – in case it is not clear to you – to close this organism that costs us more than 3_million a year [[remorse of the voice]] , just like all those whose armchairs have spread these days. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.180.0	Mr. Bello – Mr. Bello – appointed Mrs. Borràs and appointed him as a striker. I want to remind you that Mrs. Borràs was convicted of disobedience, and what you did was slander. I give you the opportunity to apologize and withdraw it from the minutes of the session log. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.181.0	Yeah. I called her a coup because she participated in the coup d'état and... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.182.0	Mr. Bello, that's not what you've... [[Some applause.]] Mr. Bello, you have not been convicted of rebellion or harassment. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I asked you if you would like to apologize to Mrs. Delete and want to remove this from the session log. Say'msi' or 'no'.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.183.0	I do not want this to be considered a legal qualification.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.184.0	Ah! [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.185.0	Let me... let me... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Please. Can you...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.186.0	We asked the Members when they used the word from the Faristol. Tell me if you want to apologize to Mrs. Borràs, and remove it from the session log.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.187.0	It's just... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, but it's just... honestly, I'm not listening to her. Please shut up for a second. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.188.0	It's easy, Mr. Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.189.0	May I? Okay, fine. I say that I did not want to make that a legal qualification, but to comment on something, facts, which, more or less, we all know, right? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.190.0	Okay. It's clear he didn't apologize to me. Thank you. I can go back to your sco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.191.0	You want to leave me? It's just... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.192.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Ms. Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.193.0	Well, to end this point, I will begin by saying that – and I answer the Socialist Party and after the show that we have just seen – I think we share, the majority of the democratics of this chamber, that there is no room to be given because the extreme right is inflated, but precisely, to put up with the few, that we do a little favour to the institutions that we are defending and we do a little favour to democracy when, in some way, we put them on the safata – we put them on the safata – that they can give little to all their demagicy and their desire to destroy democracy. We said it, we said it today, we repeat it, we think it was a mistake how these agreements were made. I would like to unblock institutions that are essential, that we at the moment defend that they may disappear, these institutions. Just the protection of data now... with the covid, it has been seen more than ever the need to extremise and advance in this protection of data. But we deny the major; we told the CAI, we said it today: we think that this, the way it was granted, was a division of shares of parties. And let me clarify it – because the Socialist Party has already said it several times, you said it now too –: it is obvious that there is another... There is nothing to see that the majority..., the law that says that the majority has to support it, but that this majority agrees with some candidates does not mean that the candidates who learn to be candidates must be linked organically or directly linked to the political parties that agree to vote on them, because this is where the discredited one is. That's where there's the political disclaimer and where there's the institutions' disclaimer, when the citizenry sees what it's doing as a division of party quotas. And this does not allow candidates to be assessed for their professional value, because there is a major fact that already exists, which already puts them in the picture, this rigour of how the candidates have chosen themselves. And if we want to stop the extreme right, which is to do things scrupulously well and don't give them little, don't give them up because they're taking advantage of democracy to go against it, like they're here today, right? They would go against all these institutions, which precisely what they do is a strict control of democratic radicality, which is what they are against. We're not playing them, please. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.194.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has the word now Mrs Anna Grau. [[Pause.]] Ah, sorry, Mr. Marc Parés, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.195.0	Well, thank you, President. In the first place, I would like to thank the outgoing director of the Apdcat, Mrs. Maria Àngels Barbarà, for the work done, and congratulate Meritxell Borrás, so, for her appointment, to whom I have a certain personal appreciation because we have been able to work, collaborate in these last months, she to her responsibility to the University of Vic, and I as a deputy to defend the interests of our city and this institution, and from whom I must say that I believe that she has the skills perfectly accredited to lead this entity. As you know, we will vote against this proposal because we disagree with how it came to this agreement, worth the redundancy. There were two ways to do it. One way was to go organ by organ and searching in each of them who were the best people both from the point of view of their abilities, their experience, their trajectory, as from the point of view of the consensus generated in the conjunction of this chamber. That's what happened, for example, in the Conca, that we would vote later, right? No question, but that's what happened. Or there was another way, which was, therefore, going en bloc to different organs and between the three major parties of this chamber dividing the falls. And that's what happened – that's what happened. And together for Catalonia, therefore, he touched the chair of the Addcat. I think it would be nice for us to come out here and say it and recognize it, because the citizenry would also like us to be honest in this sense, to come out here and say, "Look, we've agreed on the three great games, and that's how it turned out, and the Apdcat has touched Juntes for Catalonia. Well, he said that, and very quickly, he wanted to point three great lines at which I think the Catalan Data Protection Authority is facing at this stage, which I believe – said Mr Ordeig – therefore, that there is actually work to be done. The first: everything you have to do with prevention and cybercrime, which, as you know, is the type of crime that you believe the most in the last few years and, at the same time, are the crimes that are the least reported. And, therefore, we believe that here, therefore, the Apdcat has an important work of collaboration and prevention. The second: everything you have to do with the production of public plataforms and community-based alternatives to big tech corporations like Google, like Amazon, like Meta, who know that they generate huge benefits from our data. And, in this sense, the initiative that was presented just yesterday together between the Barcelona Assembly, the Education Consortium, Xnet and family associations think it is a good way, a good initiative to take an example of how things can be done differently and not leave our classrooms in the hands of corporations like Google. And the third challenge – and I finish – is to ensure a good use of data on the part of the Public Administration. I think that the public administration can use data to improve public policies, but it is clear that this use has to be done with security and not with cases like what we lived a few months ago, such as T-Mobility. Therefore, these are three great areas, and I'm sure many more, in which the Apdcat has work to do. And, in this sense, therefore, to wish him, to the Mrs. Borrás, fate and uncertainty at this new stage. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.196.0	And now, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, more of the same, more pastries. And yes, I'm sorry, if you don't like to be called "pastries, don't bake." To Mrs. Roldán, for allusions. When you say that we have ruled with Junts or that Citizens rule with Junts in Premià in exchange for an advisor, well, that's what you say; that's in exchange for an advisor you say. I admit you have more authority than me to talk about chrome changes and even jackets. But I, with my political experience, much shorter, would tell you that, well, just Citizens..., or I would remind you – as you remember – that Citizens is a party that does not make sanitary cords, that governs with whom you believe you have to rule at the best time for citizens. Even with PP, in some places even with PP. And sometimes the PP isn't up to those government pacts. But, well, that's where I leave it. Speaking of sanitary cords, here we have witnessed a painful incident led by the MP of VOX. To see, it is true, it is absolutely true that Mrs Borràs was convicted of disobedience to the law. It is true that for disobedience exercised from a public office that she prevailed to promote an illegal referendum, even to pressure officials to actively work for that illegal referendum. And that was very traumatic for democracy and coexistence in Catalonia. Calling that "coupism" is as opportune, or not, as calling it "fascist," "nazi," or "an enemy of Catalonia to anyone who brings you the opposite in whatever it is, be it the One of October or the immersion, but well, there I leave it. [[Some applause.]] In any case, Mrs Borràs, for which I too feel personal appreciation... is therefore painful for me. I believe that this history, therefore, places at least the appointment under suspicion that we are, again, faced with a case of relocation or of wives, relatives, brothers of processions, in this case directly of processions, who seek a reward or accommodation. A proof of the endogamy is that here, let us say, we have had Members having to abstain from voting in these votes. Look, I'm really sorry, but this is a shame and it doesn't hold. And, in the case of Mrs Borràs, I would ask her to put more effort into data protection than she has now put itself, or, rather, not to put the effort that has been made so far in that our data, the data of all Catalans, are still being turned around by dark servers, and we don't know – we don't want to know, I would almost tell you – what use has been made, done or could be made of them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.198.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.199.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'm not going into allusions, because, if not, maybe we're here until tomorrow. And simply to state that our vote will be against this appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.200.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.201.0	Thank you, President. Members... In the first place, welcome, Mrs. Meritxell Borrás, to whom you have been home, after this harsh repression for which you have had to pass, and thanks for everything. [[Perlongats applause.]] Mirin, for starters... To begin with, please also the management of the previous address of the Catalan Data Protection Authority, and above all to remind you, Mrs Grau, that, before you say that, I remember that justice that they so much like, that filed this case one time and another. Therefore, do not insist on what does not exist. Look, to begin with, we've unravelled a situation; that's what we keep saying. We are surprised that the leaders of the CUP repeat once and for all this circumstance on the side of other political parties, because at the end of the day, what the law allows, and we are talking about ninety-new members of Parliament. So, it seems to me that... no? I mean, things are coming together as they should. In this case, we're talking about the Catalan Data Protection Authority, which I think is an entity that has one of the most important fundamental rights that we need to preserve today, which is our data, and which, therefore, is our identity, one of the most important benefits. And, look, those who were at the CAI this afternoon could have watched as the future – if we approve it today – the president, the director of this entity, presented her resume. You'd have to lower your intervention because it's worth it. He demonstrated a very solid curriculum in administration, in management of the Administration, both at the local level, for his years of director at the Hospital of Llobregat, as at the level of the Generality of Catalonia as the councillor. And, therefore, that makes this entity that will probably lead very well know what its competitive field is and where it will move. The one I liked most, therefore, was also that it reminded us that it was advised just when it developed the European Data Protection Regulation, which is the most important law in this matter, as Mr Tremosa himself reminded us more than once, that it was the star of legislation in the European Parliament. And I was especially pleased that you talked about three things: empowering citizens, forming trainers and restoring relationships with all the world's actors in data protection. Because the consciousness of the citizens is to make these citizens hear the importance of controlling their own data. And it's that sanctions, the highest in the world probably, those that Spain has to make this legislation complete, have not made Spain the most complicating country. Therefore, we believe that everything is going to empower the citizenry to make it clear what control it must have over its data, that these are its data, and that it is going through a lot of diffusion and a lot of pedagogy. And, therefore, we thank you for what you said to us at that time. Catalonia needs, like the country and society, a strong and active data protection authority to cope with the great challenges of technology and governance. And, finally, from Juntes to Catalunya, we will fight; we will fight for the skills of the Catalan Data Protection Authority, because it will also end up having skills in the private sphere, which is what any authority should have. Thank you very much. And fate and uncertainty, if it's chosen today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.202.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs.Jordina Freixanet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.203.0	Thank you, President. President, Members, Members... we're done, we're about done, but let me reiterate, once again, that today is an important day for this Parliament and that what we're doing today should be routine. It's been a long time – a long time – that it hasn't been; in the case of the Catalan Data Protection Authority, since 2017, and today we're willing to do it. This legislature we had the duty to reverse this situation. The last general policy debate, at the initiative of Esquerra Republicana, we approved a motion with a broad support. Together, the CUP, the PSC and Catalonia in Comú put us, the political representatives of this chamber, to address the pending dues. And one of these, a sense of doubt, was the director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority. Today, therefore, we are putting a thread to the needle, and we have to ask ourselves why this Parliament has not been able to do its dues so far. And here we said one time and another: let us speak clearly. We have advanced because the main strength of the government as the main strength of the opposition are willing to advance. And the truth is, there's certainly no good legislative solution. We can ask for more and more, but the functioning of these names only works..., not just from the legislation, but from the virtuous behavior of parties and political and social actors. And that requires generosity on the part of everyone, felt and raised from country to not block them, and everyone knows that it's too hard time for the agreements. For this reason, let me pose again, one time and another, this incisive in which, in this chamber, there have been too strong those who make the blockade and the degradation of the institutions the main tool of political action. We are pleased with this broad agreement to appoint the Director of the Apdcat. The Catalan Data Protection Authority has very important challenges that cannot be expected. The data protection of the citizenry has growing relevancy and only makes it go up. And before this agency waits firmly before the Administration, but also proactively to prevent the Administration from falling victim to private actors, who only seek to serve the information of the citizenry for its own sake, visit to collaborate with the rest of the administration in its willingness to make Catalonia a country of data and to seek the balance between the deprivation and the release of data, between guaranteeing the right to information and the right to the oblivion, and using data for the better in the life of the citizenry. And we're sure that the person proposed to lead it will take it. She said so herself in the CAI of the past few days. Institutions are strengthened with great agreements to ensure their proper functioning, to continue building and developing them, and that is what we are doing today with this name. We wish them much luck, to all who have been appointed, and, in this case, Mrs. Delete, too much luck and much uncertainty at this stage. In this Parliament you will find the necessary taxation of your work, but also the accompanying to make it possible in the best way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-10-2403.204.0	Well; so, thanking very much for the presence, the work of Mrs Barbarà and also of Mrs Meritxell Borrás, we will now move to the designation, which, according to Article 7.3 of Law 32/2010, of '1 October, of the Catalan Authority of Data Protection, the director appointed for the Ple del Parlament must be for the majority of three_five_parts. If you did not get the required majority, you would have submetre to a second vote at this very plenary session, in which it would require the favorable vote of the absolute majority of the members of the chamber. As we did all this late, the vote will be electronic and secret, according to Rule 101.3 of the Rules of Procedure. So let's start the vote. There were 98 votes in favour and 31 votes against. Therefore, Ms. Meritxell Borràs and Solé is designated as the director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Congratulations, get out and be sure. [[Procedure for electing two members of the Plenary of the National Council for Culture and the Arts]] [[284-00009/12]] Let's move on to the new agenda, which is the procedure for electing two members of the Plenary of the National Council of Culture and Arts. They know that, according to Article 6 of Law 6/2008, of May 13, of the National Council of Culture and Arts, the members of the plenary of the Council are appointed for the Parliament. As recently as two of the vowels filed their resignation, the squad will hold them, and we will now proceed to their appointment. It is for the Presidency of the Generality to draw up the proposal for candidates for members of the Council, a proposal which has been submitted to the Parliament of Catalonia and which appears published in the plenary file which has been distributed among all the Members. The reminders that, according to Article 6.3 of Law 6/2008, this proposal of candidates must be accepted or rejected globally by an absolute majority in a first vote or by a simple majority in a second vote. The candidates submitted are Ms. Tania Adam Mogne and Mr. Jaume Ayats and Abeyà. There is no intervention planned for this point, as we agreed at the Spokesman's Board. I ask the Ple if this designation can be made by consent. [[Pause.]] It's not pot. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 101.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be electronic and secret. I understand that no one has been proud of their place, but on their own, we will be calling for a vote. Let's get to the vote. And it is understood that the proposal is accepted if it gets the support of the absolute majority. The vote begins. Therefore, with 106 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions, the proposed candidates are appointed as members of the Plenary of the National Council of Culture and Arts by an absolute majority. And we greet your president, Mrs. Vinyet Panyella, who will accompany us. [[Greetings.]] With this vote we arrive at the next item on the agenda. I just wanted, before I finished, to celebrate that the girl that these days was missing and that some Members of Parliament had finally been found here in the plenary. And, therefore, let's celebrate this fact. At the same time we must regret the death of writer Maria Antònia Oliver, writer and translator, assailant, who died today. She said that she wrote to die a little less; today, that she died, we would remember her in her books, with her works. It was Creu de Sant Jordi and Honorary Prize of Catalan Letters. I rested in pau. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. And raise the session.
