ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.1.0	Good morning. Take it back. [[Proposed law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching (continuation)]] [[202-00046/13]] Let us resume the session that we had to suspend for debate and vote on the proposal of law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching, a time I rejected the opinion of the Council of Guarantees Statutes solicited for some of the parliamentary groups of this chamber. Before I do that, I want to thank all the stages of the education system, all the entities and all the people who work to ensure that the right to learning in our language is a reality day by day. Let me highlight among all of them the name of the jutge de pa Salvador Ribot, for the thirteen days of fame in defense of language. [[Some applause.]] As I said, in accordance with Rule 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, and after having rejected the opinion of the Council of Statutory Guarantees, we shall proceed today to the final debate of the reports submitted to the parliamentary groups in the single reading procedure. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the votes. And, in this sense, as provided for in Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the reminder that the approval of this proposal of the Law requires the favourable vote of the absolute majority, in a vote on the conjunction of the text, in a final vote on the conjunction of the text, since it is a legislative initiative of basic development of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. In the first place, the leading parliamentary groups and, later, the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene. The record speaking time will be fifteen minutes for the group that have submitted papers to the total, and two minutes for the rest of the groups. For the defense of the emena to the totality with alternative text, has the word in first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. Today we present an amendment to the whole with alternative text to this law that the most radical and hispanophobic separatism has agreed with the Socialist Party and with the subsidiary of Podemos in Catalonia. This is the last deception of a chronicle of deceptions and disloyalties, woven by nationalism with the cooperation of socialism and the left that today represents Podemos. Forcible Catalan monolinguism is a betrayal of Pujol's constitutional covenants and promises when he signed the first pacts for the language. Let's see if you recognize this date. "I think it is also fair to say that the right to a mother tongue is a human right, a pedagogical requirement of the utmost importance. Changing the language in childhood makes it extremely difficult for the child to be able to speak. We are never going to force any child with a Castilian family environment to study in Catalan. This was said by Ramon Trias Fargas, deputy of Convergence i Unió, in the Congress of Deputies when article 3 was discussed in the Commission of the Constitution. The program of forced linguistic immersion in Catalan did not respect the law of linguistic normalization of 1983, which had been approved with a very broad..., with a very broad consensus, which was the result of the conviction of virtually all Catalonia, even of the Spanish-speaking portion of Catalans, that a Catalan language that had been persecuted had to be rehabilitated and that we had to make it a language of teaching. This law of 1983 said, in its article 14(2), "the children have right to the first teaching in the usual language, already this is the català or the castella. The Department of Education, without changing this law, systematically perverted its essence and its letter through the decrees that developed it, modeling a implementation of the program of forced linguistic immersion in Catalan, which had nothing to do with the spirit of that consensus law that was agreed in 1983. And this is how a majority of Catalans were expelled from the Catalan educational system, the official language in Catalonia and throughout Spain, and reduced it, de facto, to the category of foreign language subject. Teachers who did not want or were unable to adapt to the requirements imposed on them by the programme of forced immersion in Catalan were debugged. There was an administrative wall of silence and misunderstanding, when not of hostility, in front of all those parents who had the daring to raise their hands and complain, because they did not respect the rights recognized in the law of linguistic normalization, and so, step by step, we have arrived until today, until 2022, almost forty years later, with an immersion that you want fossilized and you want engraved in marble, as if the world did not change and as if globalization did not demand to know perfectly the Spanish and also the English. You treat immersion as if it were the stone-recorded commandments that came down Moses from Sinai. But in the face of their decades of deception that they intend to continue today with this cheating law that they present, which continues to want to exclude the Spanish from teaching as a vehicle language, and also to mock the orders of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the doctrine of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, today we have brought an alternative here. And this alternative is the first serious attempt in forty years to amend that betrayal to the constitutional pact and deviation from that intended consensus that was adopted with the Law of Linguistic Normalization of 83. Both Spanish-speaking and Catalan-speaking, the Catalan education system has failed them. It has made them passive subjects without option to replicate a decision made by fundamentalists many years ago and hostages of this fossilized model, which has robbed them of their right to know the cult record of the Spanish language, the other language of their Catalan citizens and the common language of all Spaniards, which, moreover, constitutes the third linguistic community in the world. It is imperative to change this state of affairs. The proposal for a law we are presenting seeks to put an end to two of the major shortcomings in the Catalan education system. The insufficient presence of Spanish and English in their teaching time, on the one hand, and the imposition of reading learning in Catalan on all students, on the other. In this way, the sense of balance and justice presided over by the first law of linguistic normalization is recovered and restored, bringing the treatment of languages in teaching closer to what any reasonable person can expect and aspire to in a democratic society, such as that the official languages spoken in the community are also used in school with full normality. And there's another detail I want to highlight. In all the bilingual models of the world, from the Basque Country to Quebec, exceptional cases are contemplated for the cases of the newly arrived students, but only in Catalonia do we put the newly arrived students from the first day the Catalan in vein, without aid, nor resources and with Olympic contempt towards the impact that this can have on the school performance and even on the emotional stability of these students. And our law also wants to put an end to that injustice. And there is an exception that confirms the rule and that at the same time brings the colors to you, and that shows that you have always been knowing that what you were doing was not right. And it is the exception of what happens in the Vall d'Aran, where, if the model of the rest of Catalonia had been applied, the Aranian language would have been as fulminated as the Spanish language. And it wasn't like that. And, therefore, in the Vall d'Aran there is a balanced system; it is the only oasis of linguistic diversity throughout the Catalan territory that we do not only consider necessary to modify, but, in fact, we have taken as an example in perceiving this law that we present here today. We propose, in this proposal of law, a truly fair, reasonable model, and that it wants for the public school what it costs a thousand_euros per month per child, if you want to have it in Catalonia, that is, twenty-five_per_cent Catalan, twenty-five_per_cent Spanish, twenty-five_per_cent English, and the other twenty-five_per_cent compensatory according to the criteria of the center, depending on the social circumstances of the center and the student who studies there. In addition, our law provides for training for teachers through training to achieve the necessary competence to teach in English. What we present here meets the judgment, what we present here is a novelty in the Catalan educational landscape. And this is talking about the future, not fossils or petrified standards like the Sinai tables. The national pact for lengua part of the apriorism that the use of Catalan declines, recedes, and even is in the UVI, unless drastic measures are taken, which are more or less those that have been taken and which has allegedly led them to the UVI. In the same supposedly academic report in which the Government of the Generalitat sought to justify the hardening of its linguistic policies inside and outside school, which are no longer saved even children in recreation, there is the tacit recognition that a Catalan defense based on Hispanicophobia, in the hatred of Spanish, can only lead to failure. Again and again they admit that Catalan usually speaks it much less people than could be expected after so many years of fierce monolingualism from the institutions. Only 2_million_about_7_million_and_average of possible speakers. Sixty_y_five_per_cent of the Spanish speakers in Catalonia are born here and have a strip of between fifteen and twenty-nine years of age. But you give it to him that only Catalan deserves to be treated as Catalonia's own language and preference. With their small mouths, their own advisors authors of the report warn them that no policy in favour of the international or media expansion of Catalan, such as that they claim in Europe or in Netflix, will really work if it is not done in collaboration with the State, that cooperation would be much more productive than facing up to it, but then, of course, the Catalan offensive would not serve its mobilising, separatist and Hispanic-phobic purposes. In short, you are the first enemies of the language they claim to defend. As is evident, Franco did a weak favor to the Castilian in Catalonia by imposing it and smashing the Catalan, and now you do a weak favor to the Catalan by imposing it illegally and trying to eradicate the Castilian from the institutions, as when you dared the other day to reproach the President of the High Court of Justice for using mostly the Castilian in his intervention before the Parliament, as if it were a mortal sin. This law presented to us today is the culmination of a path of disloyalties to the constitutional pact undertaken by the Socialist Party and Podemos, with Hispanic nationalism and with the purpose of keeping Pedro Sánchez in the Moncloa. First, the Socialists and the Puemites agreed with separatism on a reform of the organic law of education which abolished the obligation of the Spanishman throughout the State as a vehicle language. A year and a half ago, and they will remember that the socialist deputy in the Congress Mari Luz Martínez Seijo accused us of lying when we denounced the scandalous claudication to nationalist Hispanicophobia. And now the Socialist Party and Podemos have agreed this legal text that says Catalan is a vehicle, but Spanish is not. And finally, the Garantes Council, with its members recently agreed between socialism and separatism, tells us that why Catalan law is going to say that the Spanish is to drive if organic law does not say so, and you believe that this is how you have closed the circle. I was embarrassed yesterday to see the spokesman of the Socialist Party at a press conference assuming point by point the most rancid nationalist discourse on the language. What is it about associating the integration of a person in Catalonia only with speaking Catalan, making castles or liking capgrossos? [[Give me the applause.]] Please, what a more racy and caspian view of what it is to be Catalan! That is to recite point-by-point the nationalist catechism that Mr. Torra here recited to me. But they will no longer be able to deceive the society that has already seen its rights recognized in the courts. Socialists, Ciutadans broke the spiral of silence in Catalonia in the face of this imposture and we will continue to do so, without complexes, not like you, the PSC. In order to be a vehicle, as the Constitution requires, the Spanish must be a language of knowledge transmission in Catalan schools, and it can only be so if it is established that it is a language of teaching in a trunkal subject, which is what the court says. At least twenty-five_per_cent is, at least, a truncated subject. Against the quota of twenty-five_per_cent, which is a program of minimums to set foot on the wall and put an end to decades of abuse and ruthless linguistic repression, with Platform for Language and Cultural Ómnium acting as true Stasi of the language, they prefer to speak of proportionality, in this law, without numbers, or centers of gravity, or languages of learning. They're hot cloths that come late, because the damage is already done. The national plan per la lengua and all this unworthy reform that they bring to the chamber today is a monument to the failure of the linguistic policies of separatism, a monument to the lies on which these policies are based, and also a monument to the hypocrisy of the PSC, En Comú Puermes and all parties that, calling themselves constitutionalists, thus betray the Constitution and the people whose rights depend on the validity of that Constitution. All the rules, regulations, reforms that have been made to Catalan language and education laws since 1983 are unconstitutional and illegal. Ciutadans therefore advocates to review everything, from the law of 83 onwards, including the precepts of the Statute and the Constitution that contain concessions to the most voracious and disloyal nationalism, always, shamefully, driven by a socialism that is a power machine that crushes everything. The time of truth has come, or we are ending monolingualism in teaching and hispanophobia, or we are forever burdening ourselves with freedom and coexistence in true Catalonia, bilingual, that of the twentieth century. Socialists and Lords of Podemos, you could have chosen today between modernity and freedom or the old and the imposition of the hand of the most reactionary separatism. They've chosen the second to keep themselves in power there and believing they'll get it here. Unfortunately, with their political action, citizens are going to suffer their bad policies for far longer than you are likely to be able to keep in power. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.3.0	Next, for the defense of the items to the totality of return of the initiative, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The decree law that we are debating today and to which we are submitting amendments in its entirety, this bill began in 1983. Linguistic immersion began to apply in Catalonia on that date with the wrong so-called ‘law of linguistic normalization, insulting term, because normality does not have to be neither the imposition nor the lack of freedom nor the impoverishment of students. They started with nineteen schools in Santa Coloma de Gramenet and in 1989 they were already seven hundred. In 1993, the "liberticide", the "spanicide" in Catalan schools culminated with the disappearance of the so-called "castellan line". Pujol could sleep quietly: all the students in Catalonia could only study in Catalan and he was cracking with the cute..., and his money in Andorra. In later years everything remained the same: González, Aznar ; PP, PSOE ; PSOE, PP, none fought linguistic immersion. None of them appealed the law. No one approved an alternative. And look, ladies and gentlemen, languages are the means of communication of humans, the highest expression of culture. They serve to express our joys, our sorrows, our frustrations, our longings. And in Catalonia we have two. And that is a wealth that we must maintain, a cultural wealth to protect. Catalans are usually bilingual and we use one or the other language indistinctly. But you deny it and it bothers you. And they are dedicated to systematically discriminating against Spanish, the usual majority language of Catalans and the common language of all Spaniards. Diving is a political goal for you. You intend to standardise Catalans by what you call cohesion. They claim that in order to cohesion it is necessary to end the plurality of Catalonia, with linguistic plurality. And instead of cohering, for example, with the common language, which speaks more than 600_million people, you do it with Catalan. They use Catalan as a border and to exclude us from the rest of Spain. You make català antipathic, our language, with its imposition. Already the programme 2000, promoted by Jordi Pujol, had become the passing of the years a road map that Catalan separatism has followed to accentuate the supposed national consciousness. Education, as it could not be otherwise, became one of the main axes of the document to increase this supposed consciousness. Pujol openly bet to boost the national sentiment of teachers, parents and students, a goal that was achieved through the imposition of the language. You guys hate pedagogy. Studying in the mother tongue, in Spanish, is a right that you deny. They trample right and pedagogy. Catalan reality is bilingual. Fifty_y_five_per_cent of the population of Catalonia has as its mother tongue the Spanish language. And how is it explained that, with the majority of the population having this language as their mother tongue, they cannot study in their schools in this mother tongue? The mother tongue – pedagogues say – helps human development and is essential for learning to read and write. And it is compatible and enriching that we then introduce into teaching another national language, another Spanish language or another foreign language. But what can be expected of a libertarian government that does not allow it to choose a school, which discriminates between educational options such as special education or differentiated education or the presence of a language like Spanish in Catalan classrooms? But that does, that doesn't affect you. It does not affect the separatist elites, because their totalitarianism in the end does not affect them, their children. You take your children to private schools where immersion has no presence and where you can be educated in various languages. And it leaves the immersion for those who cannot go to private schools for a geographical or economic issue. « Geographic because in your town or city there is no private or concerted school, or because you cannot pay for it. But in the face of their totalitarianism, civil society. Valiant and good teachers teach many children who have Spanish as their usual language to read and write in their own language. You've got work, Mr. Counselor Gonzalez. And many non-subsidized entities in Catalonia have fought for freedom, bilingualism, rights and the majority language in Catalonia, which is Spanish. Serve this VOX intervention to thank the work and struggle of many entities in the defense of this freedom and I will name them one by one: La Cervantina, Association for Tolerance, Catalan Civic Partnership, Association for a Bilingual School, Arbil, S'Ha Afinet! , OCEU, Bilingualism Teachers, School of All, University Action, Universitaris pel Canvi, Citizen Impulse, Catalan Civil Society, Catalonia Suma and We Speak Spanish. They have all fought without subsidies for freedom and for the common language, for Spanish. [[Some applause.]] And, as a result of this struggle of civil society, we had a judgment in 2020 that questioned the hundred_per_cent of the language to use in Catalan and established this ridiculous minimum of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish subjects. That is, as politicians have failed, civil society has to act, and as left-wing and separatist elites do not respect rights, entities and parents go to court to seek protection. And the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia handed down a judgment. And the separatist elite, as always, disobeys and fails. It's been two years and the executioner who ended last Tuesday appeared and neither do they. And now they bring us a cheating law; Esquerra, Junts, PSC, In Comú Puems they stage a cheating pact, a pact to circumvent the Generalitat's obligation to comply with a sentence, which establishes this ridiculous minimum that we have commented on Spanish subjects in Catalan schools: the subject of the language in Spanish and one more. The trapping pact reaffirms that Catalan is the only language to be used. While Spanish – he literally says – « will be used as the language projects of each centre fix, following, of course, the instructions that Mr Gonzàlez will send to them and that will exclude Spanish as a vehicle language. It is intended to give an appearance of fulfillment, but the reality is that it is non-existent, as you often say, that it is the way to protect that Spanish is not a language to use. This is how this law, this proposed law, still does not recognize Spanish as a vehicle language in Catalonia despite the express request of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. The presence of Spanish in the percentage also established by the judgment is not guaranteed. That is why we have taken various steps from our parliamentary group. The first was to take the project to the State Guarantee Board. This indispensable body, which is a consultative body that its role could be carried out by the Council of State and would cost us cheaper. We would save those 3_million_de_euros and those salaries of the six members appointed by PSC, Esquerra and Junts, who charge more than the President of the Government of Spain: 128,000_euros. And we've taken him why, they'll say, if they don't believe in the Consulting Council of Statutory Guarantees. " Why are they taking a bill to that council? Well, I'll tell him quietly. We've taken him to set traps, just like that. Secondly, we will bring the law to the Constitutional Court, for the non-recognition of Spanish as a vehicle language, for the primacy of Catalan over Spanish and for the pattern of balance and equality between languages that the Constitutional Court has already set in previous resolutions. And finally, we will file a complaint; a complaint for those who have failed to comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, for disobedience. We don't like to file complaints. [[you see "No!, remorse of the voice and applause]] But I'll see you at the obligation. I will recognize that what we like best is to serve our citizens. And the way to do it, when you fail, is to file complaints, sit them on the bench [[remorse of the voice]] and, if it can, put them in prison. [[Greetings.]] Finally, our commitment, our commitment to the Catalans, with the ability to use our majority language, Spanish, with freedom, with our regional language, Catalan, with our national language, Spanish. We will not abandon the Catalans and fight by all means, in the street, in the Parliament, in the courts and when we govern, to ensure that Spanish can be learned throughout the national territory. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.5.0	Next, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Everything that's going on the last few days, immediately after the name "twenty-five-per-cent feeling," actually responds to a malaltish obsession that constitutes the whole fold-down fund debate, and that's nothing else to turn into untouchable and sacred a linguistic immersion that is actually an anomaly all over the world. Language immersion does not apply anywhere in the world where there are two or more official languages. Neither Finland, nor Slovakia, nor Gal·les, nor Malta, nor Belgium, nor Luxembourg, nor Ireland, nor Switzerland, nor Galicia or the Basque Country, in the case of Spain. To all these countries and regions, pure immersion is directly illegal, as is the case with Spain. And in all these cases there are two legal alternatives to the conjunction of democratic Europe: either the choice in two educational lines – free choice – which applies to the Basque Country and the majority of Europe – you say this is segregation; you see that the conjunction of democratic Europe is segregation, according to you – or the linguistic conjunction, that is, flexible bilingualism or trilingualism, which is what makes sense in the Spanish case. Therefore, the first absolutely indisputable consideration: immersion, as it applies to Catalonia, is illegal throughout the democratic world where two or more official languages converge, as I said a while ago. And this is the key word: "official. Because here in reality what is meant to be applied is linguistic substitution, which is different things, is to say, that the castle is treated in the education system not as an official language, but as if it were a foreign language, which would be reduced to the private sphere, and in the case of the school would be exactly as the French or English language, which was absolutely unacceptable. It is worth saying that this linguistic replacement process is failing dramatically in its purpose, which is to suppress the castle as a mother tongue and social use among the nine generations of Catalans. In change, it feels – it has to be recognized – deeply excited at the time of violating the linguistic rights of a vast majority of the Catalan population. Then I will refer to it in a more concrete way. So, well, that Catalan nationalism has linguistic substitution as the purpose of the speech should not surprise anyone. Heroes of German Romanticism, with Jordi Pujol who was educated in this ideology as the phonenal referent, for you the language builds the birth and the hope of the people in the terms they defined, I quote textually, Herder, Fichte, etc., that add: "Each language configures a way of hearing the world, only one. Therefore, in a nation there is only one language. It is a coherent thought with which you defend. And so – and here the problems begin – we ended up with a dangerous conclusion. German is where he speaks German, and if he speaks German to the north of France, to the south of Denmark and apart from Poland, Austria or Chechnya, that's all Germany. Well, I don't need to explain or overwhelm myself about what a raison d'être of these characteristics has brought, which, of course, some want to apply to the names – for them – « Catalan Countries. Fortunately, I do not know that you are well aware of the point that I defend that Argentina or Uruguay are part of Spain because they speak Spanish there. It's clear that we only have these ideas around here. Well, what... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah. I know these things bother them, but they'll have to feel them. They won't have another row. That romantic nationalism is acting in this way, therefore, is absolutely normal. But how is it possible for the Catalan left to disappear – already to subsume the PSUC and then the commons, Initiative for Catalonia or the PSC – how is it possible for them to effectively join the strongest nationalism? With some ideas I've just described perfectly. Jordi Pujol explained to his memoirs that it was the teacher Marta Mata who convinced him of the bonds of linguistic immersion. We must remember that the year 80 Jordi Pujol carried in his electoral program the two lines of the Basque system, what you say "segregation". That's what Jordi Pujol was wearing on his show. Marta Mata was convinced that her moment of understanding pedagogy would be more viable with immersion to ensure that she defined social cohesion. A social cohesion that, for many, among which I am included, is in fact the suppression of educational freedom, meritoriousness and social mobility. They're different ideological visions, obviously. But the most important thing here is that this combination applies to Catalonia's education, a lot of left and a lot of nationalist and supposedly cohesive, curiously causes its drivers to panic when it comes to educating their own children. It is widely known that the great nationalist and socialist hierarchies always renounce such idyllic and wonderful social cohesion. When it's about your children, meritocratic school, competitive school, and trilingual school; when it's about your children, immersion and social cohesion. You have to hold a lot of bar and a lot of shame to defend that – a lot of bar and a lot of shame. Well, let's go here to the ore oak, some of the most important conclusions. What was the result of this planned immersion in the decade of the eighty and intensely implemented from the language policy law of the year 1998? And I say this date because sometimes they tell lies. Some interview or debate touched me and said: "No. How is it possible that you're complaining if you're also a child of immersion? Liar. Fortunately, my generation did not enjoy the cohesive pleasures of immersion. We're going to be much luckier than the current generations. I'm setting an example, of course. At the age of eighty, I was a student of the EGB at the public college of Sant Pere and Sant Pau de Tarragona. At that time, I tried to make a calculation, there, with memory, in that college maybe sixty_per_cent in castle, forty_per_cent in català. At the Pons d'Icart Institute in Tarragona, at the beginning of the 1990s, the thing was very equal, fifty-five. Already in the first half of the 1990s, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the primacy was of the Catalan, perhaps a proportion of the forty-six in favor of the Catalan. In any case, that system was not immersed in any case, but in linguistic conjunction and it worked well enough better than the current one. And it was more cool, that it's not a minor issue. But it's that, besides, the result of so much cohesion and landlessness that you supposedly defend is extraordinarily painful for your own català. The data of the Idescat are blunt. Between the years 2003 and 2018 the català is more than usual language from forty-sis to thirty-sis_per_cent of Catalans and the castle is always maintained at levels higher than fifty_per_cent. That is to say, their policies, theirs, because they have been eating for a long time, have reduced the social use of català. It is a phenomenon that Professor Miquel Porta Perales defines as the flattening of the catalá, that is, its progressive conversion into an administrative language, of public media of communication and of power spaces, with problems to be able to be adapted – for the facts that I have described – for the new generations of catalans. The politics of the catalá are disastrous for its own catalá. To be identified with a concrete political project is antipathic for a substantial part of the population in Catalonia. In the public media in Catalonia, we have spent three decades of cultural products... I always talk about the same, but it is important for my generation, Sputnik, Cinema 3, the legendary retransmissions of Lluís Canut and Robirosa to sporting events..., and they were cultural products that could perfectly engage people of Castilian mother tongue, as is my case. Thus, in three decades, we have gone directly to public media in Catalonia where it is only about politics and is used every day, because it is every evil day, expressions like « colonists, « nyordos», « botiflers, or directly break the most basic rules of respect for people, as my company Lorraine Roldán has recently suffered. And that's indisputable, say what they say. We've moved on to some public communication media that only do political propaganda and that are unable to translate cultural products that engage the nine generations. And a second thought, which for me is definitely the most important, because it explains what's going on because, well, we're all people, right? Well, these data from the Idescat I just put out from the table on the social use of the català, which are still much worse among young people, you know them. You know them, but instead of making a minimum self-criticism about what you are failing or about what you, who carry decades the nationalists in their different versions eating, when they see these figures coming directly into col·lapse, to fall directly into the paroxysm. I am not saying language. It's when you say worried, sincerely worried, "the català feels dead said. Look, I'd rather say that the català would kill him so much that you esteem him, because he violates individual rights, increasing penalties, delays in the academic field or systematically incomplicating the law, so they won't improve the social use of català. I'm already getting ahead of them. I can't be no genius to get to this conclusion. In the place of cohesion, they will have division; in the place of open and positive promotion, they will have a struggle between young people for anti-pathic impositions and, in the place of a language for everyone, they will have a language only of independenceists and for independenceists. And today, sadly, and with the collaboration of the Socialist Party, they take a step further on this disastrous path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.7.0	Next, to defend the papers presented has first the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.8.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies... A greeting also to representatives of the educational community who accompany us to the rostrum or follow us to social networks. Fifteen days ago we presented the bill's proposal on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching, which today, finally, we can approve, a widely worked proposal that, in view of the social changes that have occurred since the 1980s, preserves the essential of our education system and the better, preserving català as the center of gravity of this system and also, for the first time, recognizing the castle as the language of learning and, therefore, regulating it not only the teaching, but also its curriculum. That is to say, it is not only guaranteed to teach the language, but also to do so in this language. And, in fact, citing literally the advice of the Council of State Guarantees that yesterday, so we could arrange..., says that the proposal establishes a wider use of the castle in the education system respects the forecasts contained in the law of education of Catalonia and the law of linguistic policy, in the measure that, as novelty respects these two laws, explicitly reverses its use of curriculum and education. And he clearly adds: "It is recognized in the castle a use that went beyond its use only in the teaching of this language as matter, assignment or area. That is to say, the castle is a language of learning to be used, if it gets out, in other matters or competing areas, as it is now in many Catalan schools. Therefore, no matter what the law proposes violates the law, it challenges the courts or seeks confrontation; what it does is to collect the reality of the schools and what it pursues are solutions and great country agreements. Nevertheless, some parliamentary groups, with all their right, therefore called for an opinion to prove that this proposal was in place with the Statute and the Constitution. And, indeed, therefore, it has not surprised anyone, there has been no surprise, that the opinion says that it is a rule that is totally in line with the rules in force. And not only that, but what it does is to develop it..., above all the organic law of education, the additional provision 38. But, come on, we already know that some groups, therefore, are more comfortable blocking, obstructing, than not opting, making politics; and even, in the case of VOX, making the opposite of what they had said they would do. But I don't think anyone's surprised at these lifts anymore. But in any case, I'd like to make a summary of what the law says. The Constitution says, in its Article 3, that the castle is the official language of the entire State, that all Spaniards have the right to know it and the right to use it and that the rest of Spanish languages will also be official in their autonomous communities according to their statutes. The State, in Article 6, says that Catalonia's own language is Catalan, that it is the language normally used as a vehicle and learning in teaching, and therefore I assume that neither does it escape anyone that normally does not mean exclusively. Well, it is very clear that there is nothing unconstitutional or unstated about the proposal that has been put forward. And even less than denying the right to the education of the castle, when article 2.2 of which we expect to be a new law says: "The teaching and the curriculum and education of the catal and the castle must be guaranteed and have an adequate presence in the curricula and educational projects so that all the students take the oral domain and write of the two official languages at the end of compulsory education. It perfectly conforms to the regulations in force. And, in fact, it is consistent with the 2010 Constitutional Court's judgment that it is also perfectly legitimate that Catalonia, in keeping with the objective of linguistic normalization in Catalonia, follows the centre of gravity of this model, always with the limit that this does not determine the exclusion of the castle as a teaching language, so that it also guarantees its knowledge and use in the territory of the autonomous community. Exactly what this agreement provides for. Therefore, I do not know whether some of these parties, poorly named constitutionalists, because they then propose changes in the Constitution precisely of expressions that made their consent possible, may also want to go further than the rules in force for which it makes language. But if the concern of some is the percentages, they will understand that they do not correspond to a law entering this level of achievement, that what makes this law precisely is to establish that the determination of the presence of languages in teaching must take into account sociolinguistic reality, in order to allow this modulation, this flexibility of educational projects depending on the background, the reality of each centre and its studentship, and also according to the instruments of control, evaluation, of the improvement of the linguistic skills spoken and written by these languages. Therefore, we reinforce the pedagogical criteria, which will have to be laid down in the linguistic projects, and limit ourselves to marking the political objectives, which are to guarantee the oral and written mastery of the official languages at the end of the compulsory teaching. And, in any case, from our group we have left this realization for a later decree, which we understand should have already deployed the norm to it, in any case by adulterating it, as it may have happened. And we have to regret – we are very sorry, indeed – that the government, therefore, has not preserved a consensus that has cost so much to arrive in the drafting of the decree, because we ask ourselves whether it was necessary to challenge the courts saying that any numerical parameter will be inapplicable, because the curriculum decrees speak of organization with hours, that as far as we know they are numerical parameters, and we do not know if they will mean that the hours of English or the hours of other matters will disappear. Nor do we understand that the expression "use of the castle's curriculum in the decree has disappeared, because we think it is not to respect the agreements. It is not possible to have such a narrow look, to contribute unnecessarily to the confrontation. Let us resolve with great agreement, and in the decree, therefore, you have not fully gathered the agreement that we shall approve today. But now the subject of the debate is not the decree, is this law, and, therefore, what have we found ourselves in? We have found ourselves with thoughts to the totality of PP, VOX and Citizens to oppose the processing of a law that they claim to refer to a consensus that in the past few years had left itself. And it's understood that some people don't want it to be transmitted, because they are forces that are more comfortable in the constant confrontation, in the politicization of language, society, school, blocks, fronts and trenches. But the citizenry doesn't want to live in a permanent state of cricket. Society wants coexistence, it wants cohesion; it waits for policy dialogue and agreement and waits for our other solutions, and you don't cunning or looking short. I've said many times now that it's not right for anyone to defend one language against another. And for what he does to Ciutadans, they certainly present an alternate text to implement an alternation program to the schools, trilingual; a model that can offer some private centers, which you curiously have not submitted or applied successfully to another autonomous community where they govern, not even when they were the main opposition party; a proposal totally unworkable if not accompanied by economic memory and impossible to implement at these times in Catalonia. In any case, from the PSC we have repeatedly asked the different Councillors and Councillors of Education for a country plan with the necessary resources to improve the skills in a third language, preferably the English language, of the citizenry in general, of the studentship, increasing the endowments of dozen specialists to make unfoldings, improve the initial and permanent formation of the teacher, giving more place to the different official schools of languages and more help to guarantee their access. And we're far from it, sadly, but this issue doesn't have a political background problem. We had a political problem with the treatment of official languages, because part of the Catalans, even though it is a minority part, in the last few years has seen in the Catalan a certain political connotation, which has made it worse, and has found a certain lack of respect and recognition of their mother tongue, the castle, in the education system and even in the institutions. And the need to recommend and refer to this situation, because language, language are all things, as is school, and as institutions should be. And for the catalá it was also important to refer to this consensus, because it reinforces its character as a center of gravity before important changes in the audiovisual, technological, and also some backward in the land of uses, especially young people, who know him more than ever, but less than any other moment, a reinforcement that is obviously going to go much further than school. The school is not to save the català, the school is to learn, it is to socialize. But in any case, with this we guarantee you the right to learn official languages, orient the educational centres with the government's commitment to improve advice and evaluation, which has never been done in the last few years and which since the PSC has been a long time since we have been claiming, and we have extended the languages of political and judicial focus. And we have to ask ourselves, on the margins of electoral dynamics, on the margins of very unfortunate expressions of the new leader of the People's Party, who is really making a lot of effort to contain and conceal so much moderation, and focusing only on the contents, because the People's Party of Catalonia is against this text? A government party at the state level, which has abstained from the law of language policy, is in front of a text that takes an important step forward in the recognition of the castle, as the Council of State Guarantees itself says. And, unfortunately, we think that it is a clear example that the agenda of the extreme right has contaminated every day more a party that, one day, therefore, was a right that was homologable to other European Christian democracies. And, ultimately, we will vote against the totality items that oppose the processing of the bill's proposal. Moreover, we disagree with Ciutadans's proposal, which is totally complete with reality. And we will vote in favour of the two minor points tabled by the proposing groups concerning the entry into force and abolition of the budgetary impact point. And, in any case, we would expect that the new law, if approved, will allow you to depoliticize and dejustify the school and the languages; that it will apply and be implemented with loyalty to the norm, with the balance and with the broad political consensus that we have built up and that it has brought us so far and so far; that the educational community is committed and involved; that the model is socially strengthened and that we start a new phase of linguistic coexistence where the languages, the students, the students, the education system are won in its conjunction and also the whole. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.9.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.10.0	Thank you, President. Welcome to all the people of the educational community who are accompanying us today. Members and deputies, advisors, advisors, today we are not only debating and approving a law, and we believe that this is essential to reschedule it to remind us of the importance of bringing this proposal forward; today what we do is to demonstrate once more that linguistic immersion counts not only with pedagogical and social consent – that it is obviously appropriate – but also with political consent, that it has a clear message, and that immersion is not a matter and there is no arbitrary feeling that it disassemblies the model that has worked for us and that, adapted to us, will work for the generations of today and tomorrow. We are talking about consensus and we are talking about majorities, too, because we do not only see the political majority in favour of immersion today, but we are seeing it at the Congress of Deputies. Because there is no week in which the right does not intend to break the consensus on immersion and there is no week in which the majority in Congress does not reject this demagogic speech about the Catalan school. And like the LOMLOE, which is the law of education in force, which seems that the TSJC has not read and that shields the immersion. We have worked intensely on this law with various objectives in mind. In the first place, transversality, which is essential to prove that the school is not owned by one or the other, as well as language, but that it is the heritage of all and of all. Secondly, the protection of the immersion model and of our teachers before the shameful and pitiful battles of the right, which is already over which I kept this campaign, without success. And thirdly, the use of the model under pedagogical criteria, placing the student at the center, where we have guaranteed, guaranteed and guaranteed the competitive acquiescence in both languages. That's why we insist that today we don't just debate and approve a law; today we debate the maintenance of certain rights that some, as a consequence of their privileges, don't just need them, but work because the rest don't have them. We're talking about equal opportunities; that's why they want to get it from the eye. And who makes the success model of immersion possible? In this Parliament, obviously, we have this responsibility to legislate, but it is the docent body, the educational community in its conjunction, the great treasure of the Catalan school, which really guarantees it day by day. And it's not saying enough: they're professionally compromised with the education system and with the common sense of being the backbone of pedagogical action, as well as the detail they're experiencing and the wave of unilateral and random decisions they've been seeing lately. They are the teaching body and the educational centres, with the curriculum project of the centre and the linguistic platform of each of these schools, who put in practice the flexibility that gives them the immersion and that today we toast with pride. Because it's hard enough to listen to certain perverse speeches that have wanted to put the idea in public opinion that what we're doing today is introducing the castle to the classrooms at the expense of the català. No, no, Members and Members, what we are doing is giving all possible tools to the teachers so that they continue to adapt linguistic knowledge to their realities and, at the same time, to protect them from constant judicial debates which, ultimately, do not only harm politics, but also the student and the teacher. It's a lot of trouble to listen to each other's lies, falsehoods and falsehoods about what's going on in Catalan classrooms. The educational community has said enough and so have we. Let's not forget what it took to get here, the result of the collective struggle to get all children and children to have the opportunity to have dual linguistic competence. And here we want to make special mention of the migrating families of the south, of the Spanish speakers, of those who have done decades have stopped politics and directed it to the right path. Those couples, those seas, those families, those entities, activists, who didn't know how to speak Catalan, but who wanted their sons and daughters to speak. They have names and surnames, and we only have to recognize the arrival and thank them. Also to the most recent migrations, to which many times they are blamed for being a last for the català, which count on the compromise of this parliamentary group, from En Comú Pode, and we hope to count also with the compromise of the parliamentary groups of this chamber to reverse this situation, because many times, as Asmaa Aouattah says, it is important to review the foundations of the hegemonic discourse defending the català, which many times, certainly, is elaborated in the absence of the migrants. The català, however, continues to be threatened by a uniformist system, which suggests that it is a threat to a castle that is largely solid and sunny. What is basically happening to us is that we are not able to see that defending language also means defending other rights, other realities; that defending language also means recognizing other cultures and other languages; defending language also means decolonizing one's gaze towards another, and hearing that migration and this wide diversity of the country is not a last resort, but can be the great opportunity for català. At another point, we will not forget the thin rope in which some parliamentary groups are swinging; if you move the boat a lot, it will end up falling, and we will lose what it cost so much to achieve. A future-oriented country is one that understands languages as the element of cohesion, cooperation and multiple wealth. This is the basis of our model, fleeing the confrontation that the oppositions to the Catalan model claim. And another thing that tells us the data, and that's been talked about in the previous interventions..., it's spoken not just..., it's about the social use of català, and that's the main problem we have. And where do they get used to focusing all language debates on language use? Precisely, no schools. And let us take advantage of all the political forces, and especially those who make a perverse and electoralist of the language, who let our teachers do their work, that they and they already complete with the LEC, guaranteeing the absolutation of the competitions in both languages. We are immersed, because of the supporter of the Catalan school, in another judicial debate that now wants to force this twenty-five percent of castella to the classrooms. And, by the way, it also means that the courts require a twenty-and-five-per-cent castle, but they don't even get to the eight-per-cent Catalan sensations. But, as I said, the tool we have as legislators of this chamber is the armoring of the docent Catalan body, which must not assume any responsibility in this matter. And so we've done, and so we'll do as many times as anyone. We have social, educational and political consensus. And we'll stay on this line. We also encourage – and it is important to mention – public policies that are useful for citizens. We encourage the presence of català in the networks through Catalan talent, but we also guarantee the presence of our language to all the cultural fan of what we enjoy. We use a lot of mechanisms to access all of the city to the catalá, and not just through the school. We create community spaces where we work on social and personal relations in Catalan. We encourage the cultural world, and especially the audiovisual in català, because we sometimes complain that Netflix doesn't have offers in català, and quite rightly, but what about the children's offer on our public television? If we want to demand, let us first look at the house. He has no sense of putting judicial criteria before the pedagogical criteria. Therefore, ensuring the safety of teachers and the educational community is ensuring that immersion has a long life ahead of it, and we will do everything possible to keep it that way. We're with the Catalan school. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.11.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. Greetings to the entities and the educational community that accompany us. After the terms of the papers and the intentions of the professional filibusterism of the ultra-linguistics, today we vote on the law's proposal on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching. I want to announce to them that, agreed with my parliamentary group, I myself will make a vote of abstention as symbolically gestured towards the company Salvador Ribot, who has been out of fame for thirty days. [[Greetings.]] From the discrepancy, because he, like us, considers the Catalan language the same, even though we have different positions on the strategy to follow, a gesture of recognition to his firm and honest action, and of humanity, to ask them from here that if you please leave the gap of fame and we can continue together for other lives our struggle in defense of the català. Today's text, which is the proposal of the law of this Parliament to have a new legal framework and to deal with the feeling and the finality of the interview of the TSJ, together with the decree that the government approved last week's dilluns, is a text with which we want to preserve the model of Catalan school before the interferences of Spanish justice. These two instruments, the current one and the decree law, give answer to the red lines that Juntes for Catalonia had marked and that allow the català to continue to feel for the law the language to convey to the educational centers; that to all the educational spaces the català continues to feel the language to gather, and therefore the linguistic immersion is guaranteed; that the direct teams and the doctrinal teams are protected before the threat represented by Spain's justice, that it is already sad; that the learning of the official languages is governed exclusively with pedagogical criteria, and in the case of sub-percentages, as it should be in a normal country. ‘Normal' shall mean ‘normal'. In order to enter the subject of this law, the first article already states that the use and learning of official languages must be in accordance with pedagogical criteria, and in article 2.3, it reiterates that the abst of the presence of official languages must be determined exclusively – exclusively – with pedagogical criteria. And with what purpose is this presence of official languages? So with the objective that the student does not finish school with an oral and written domain – Article 2.2. And why is it important that this written domain of català, and also oral, that the law adds to it? Obviously, for the individual formation of people, but collectively – and that is why it bothers so many – so that this learning and the domains of catalá can be the lever to recover speakers and the social use of them. And in this learning chain of catal and aranis it is also necessary, as Article 1 says, that catal is the normal language of use in the colliding of the new student and that it is, therefore, the vehicle language to ensure its immersion. And it is urgent to have instruments to improve the social use of català and aranès, among other reasons, because non-competence in català or aranès encourages, encourages, promotes inequality, segregation, and affects one of the pillars of the Catalan school, which is to educate and train for social cohesion. And if it wasn't, it would be contradictory to the guiding principles of another law: the law of education in Catalonia. From now on we support today's law, obviously, but from now on we think that there is not enough of this initiative, and that's why we were key, we were decisive and we were insistent on pushing forward the law that articulates the linguistic projects of the center, so that the instrument to deploy without percentages the presence of official languages in the teaching, percentages that imposes the politicized justice of the Spanish State. These two legislative initiatives must serve above all to protect direct teams, teachers and teachers from the engineering of justice and who can dedicate themselves with complete security, professionalism, to the complex work of teaching in a difficult mass, tense managed from this day to day to the educational centers. Many directions of centers, from years ago, are under the pressure and the gaze and accusations of groups that want to politicize and conflict the classrooms. We have listened to many directions, and it is urgent that you feel secure from now on in exercising without anxiety your professional, pedagogical and educational task. We want to bring all our support to the educational community, to the professionals of education; its commitment has been key, it has been instrumental – and we say it sincerely – to help in social cohesion these difficult years of inequality; to say it symbolically, of living materials, of diminishing resources and pandemics. These two legislative initiatives, which we are voting on today and the law decree, must be legally endorsed because neither a family unilaterally nor the arbitrariness of a teacher nor judicial interference can do anything that is not in line with the corresponding linguistic project of a singularity center – Article 2.3. To finish briefly reviewing the articles of this law, it is important to read Article 2, which, in accordance with the Statute, says that català, as the native language of Catalonia, is the language normally used as the language of vehicle and learning of the education system. This text has the support of a vast majority of the Parliament, and we believe that there is scope for either defending the Catalan school model, or facing the feeling, or defending the use of Catalan and Arabic at the educational centres, we already find fruitful intersections with the companies of the CUP – more extensive. I appreciate the political and social consensus that we have worked quietly these past eight or two weeks. With shields? Yeah. With debates? Yeah. With tension? Also. With complicity? A lot. And finally, with a result to move forward. Yeah, too. Without social consent, we couldn't move forward as we did. Together we came out of the initial agreement, and we believe that that rectification was good to get into the way of this law today, without opening keys, so, to the law of linguistic policy or to the LEC. Correct to improve. Self-criticism. Honestly, I'm self-critical. MPs and MPs, what have Catalan speakers done to always hold the State against our language? Why don't they understand the State's richness of diversity and minority Catalan and Orange. That's such an uncultural attitude, isn't it? Because of the obsession of the unit of the country they persecute, assetn, discriminate against the catalá – it is clear that this is the case. And it is clear that the powers of the State, pursuing the Catalan, do not only want to pursue Catalanism: some, to the independence of us would want to annoint us. So we don't have to ask these questions, because we already know the solution: independence or independence. Let me thank my parliamentary group and my party on the farm. For Junts, language is not just the guarantee of the future of Catalan society – it is, and it is very important –; for Junts, Catalan is the backbone, raison d'être of the nation, the complete nation, the one that goes from Salses to Guardamar, of the Catalan Countries. We're a game where the language is for the sake of it. Together, language defines us, language makes us community; without language we have no birth and without birth we do not have independence, and for this reason we also defend ourselves from everything that wants us to reduce this lane of unity that is the idiom, where we want to travel with a sense of embrace and inclusiveness and in an integrated way towards independence, yes. I have given thanks to my party and to my parliamentary group and I also give thanks to all the people who have worked for this consensus, who are many – the list would be long. I don't know how to say names today; I'm quiet, I'm quiet, I'm quiet, I'm resilient, I'm emotional and I'm staying. We have a lot of work to do in many areas to protect our language and to boost its social use. He has made himself with serenity and consent and discretion to the universities – then, advises Geis. We believe that there is a lot of room for improvement to work with strategic units in Madrid – for example, in the audiovisual law – or to review aspects of the Celaá law. With unity, we must like to be able to do it. MPs and MPs, there is a time for every thing, and to obey the State in matters of language we have in time of discount: if it is not finished, little is needed – I finish, president. From Junts, we make a prec to the deputies and deputies, to the entities, to the civil society in order to bring forward all those initiatives in defense of language, in defense of the country, in defense of social cohesion and to improve the lives of the people. Nothing more, President, but nothing less. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.13.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members. Many welcome the members of the educational community, in short, that you are here today. Against all odds, firm; before the cynic filibusterism of the right and the extreme right, patience, path traced and to continue in defense of the common good, against which flatten the way of togas there are as we have always been. For all this, today will be approved, for the most part and for the most part, the proposal of law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching, a specific law, a new law, the legal framework to accommodate the decree already approved by the Government. The boycott attempts, therefore, have dilated the calendar more than we would like; much, much. But filibusterism is that and more. And, therefore, today, despite everything, we will have her. And, therefore, today, after days of negotiation and stretching, we must congratulate each other. The effort of so many was worth it. It's worth it. We are, therefore, discussing the proposal of consensus with an opinion of the Council of State Guarantees which endorses the work done by many people from responsibility, seriousness and compromise with the linguistic model of the Catalan school. We also propose two elements to the additional and final technical dispositions that do not modify the background of the law. We have regained the consensus that language deserves, that country deserves, that Catalan school deserves. Today, the eighty per cent of Members will approve in this House the law's proposal. A consensus that has perished, and made it publicly, is undeniable, but today we prefer to put the emphasis on getting it back. And this is important because the parliamentary forces that one day heard that the question of language was a country issue, today we again make it clear that the defence of the linguistic model of the Catalan school is not party, but country, social cohesion, equity, equality of opportunity and culture as well. The agreement is broad and, in fact, there's still time to make it bigger. It is a consensus that we would like to expand and invite the CUP to join us there. The decree can be a new opportunity when you get here to Parliament to find us again. The educational community needs a wide range of help. That's why we talked to everyone. We appreciate the work done, the contributions, the debate, the search for the common objective, of all the parliamentary groups signing, finally, and allow me here a sincere thanks to the Secretary of Linguistic Policy, Francesc Xavier Vila, for his work. [[applause]] as well as civil and educational entities for their contributions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] And at personal level, let me..., at personal level, thank you, Marta Vilalta, Irene Aragonès, Raquel Sans, Glòria Llobet, Anna Simó, Andreu Freixes, Laura Domingo, Núria Julià and Oriol Casanellas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, everybody. Thanks for making it possible for us to equip the country with a law that kept the català as a vehicle language and as a collection, defense the school of judicial impossions, allows to give coverage to the schools and protect the Catalan language. We extend the tax school of the twenty-five percent castle for the courts and set the pedagogical criteria as a unique condition for teaching. Let's leave the teachers alone, and above all protect them because they can do their job. Getting out of the sugar that the TSJ had generated is key, and that's what we're doing today, having a regulator_frame so I don't get back to regulating the judgments. And with the government's law decree, which we will also validate with Parliament, putting the Department of Education as the final head of the language projects. Directions, to cover; responsibility, ours. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] To give, therefore, this new regulatory framework, the law that we approve today says various things. In the first place, it seeks to be a legal framework that fixes the català as the language of Catalonia, it is the language normally used as the vehicle language of learning of the education system and the normal use in the colliding of the new student. Second, the castle is regulated in terms of fixing the linguistic projects of the centers. What does that mean? Therefore, language projects should include aspects related to the teaching and teaching of languages that must follow pedagogical criteria, taking into account the socio-linguistic situation, the objectives of linguistic normalization and the learning of the student, ensuring oral and written learning of the catalá and the castella according to the center. Thus, the abst of this presence of official languages must be determined exclusively with pedagogical criteria and in a unique way for each of the educational centres, and it must be done from a comprehensive, inclusive and cross-curricular approach that covers all educational spaces and learning resources, as well as digital ones. That's what the law says, that's what we've made possible, that's what we have to defend now and everything, and do it right. It should be noted that the language of the vehicle is Catalan, and the castle is regulated as the language of learning according to how they determine linguistic projects. We're laying down quotas, reinforcing the language that needs it the most, which is català to most of the country. This is how we get a frontal rebuff of the judicial bans. We'll do everything for the català, because it's all worth it. We defend the català at school and do it, for a band, with this law in the Parliament of Catalonia, with consent to protect our model of Catalan school and avoid the twenty-five percent of castella. And, moreover, we have the decree of the law of the Government, which guarantees the assumption by the Government of the responsibility of the linguistic projects – therefore, it will be Education that will validate that the projects conform to the law – protection of the addresses of the educational centers, re-establish of the percentages, protection of the catal with all the tools, and lengthen the courts of the school and of the education system, so that we keep the catal as the center of gravity of the public educational service of Catalonia. We have been able to stand up and agree with most of this chamber to ensure that the feeling of the twenty-five_per_cent does not affect the teaching. We couldn't stay passed and we didn't do it, because not doing it was not an option. In order to face these challenges, however, we must also do everything we can to act from the Government, as it has done in the judicial aspect presenting resources; approving the decree which it had already considered and which we will validate accordingly; preparing the decree of the deployment of Title II, of the linguistic regime of the education system in Catalonia, and also with an important measure of direct impact to the classrooms of our educational centres: the impulse of the catalá to schools, which is not only seeking to increase the use of catalá to the educational centres, but also to promote the collaboration of the educational community in the best of its use in school contexts. Project, work and results. Therefore, we have a long look, a project of education, knowledge of what we are doing, and let the political myopia band. Because we also have educational challenges that we cannot wait for, as previously mentioned: we have to face social change, education and technology now; we have a policy of prevention not of action and reaction; we have to be able to guarantee the learning of the catalá to all the students who study at our centres, recognize the multilingual reality of our classrooms, adapting the teaching methodology to the current challenges and leaving behind the traditional conception of teaching, and also taking advantage of adapting to the emergence of new technologies. This gives us an opportunity to generate new language learning skills; let's not take it down. And before you finish, let me think about it: it's obvious that in order to age for the Catalan language we will have to face many more times, both externally, in these attempts of homogenization from the Spanish State, as internally, at the pedagogical level. And it's obvious we can't do it with the usual tools. Our education system needs to be constantly updated to respond to educational needs and provide the best possible tools for students. All these challenges must be addressed from the pedagogical and political consensus in Catalonia. They know that we are there and we want to decide between all the actors involved in the best model, always along with the interferences of the State and the courts. Finally, let us conjure up for the language and education system of the country; we follow folds for these broad consensuses before those who want to use the language for the conflict, and do not let them divide us as the country for linguistic questions. Today we are only taking a first step on a path that will certainly be long, but it is clear that we will do so to ensure that the Catalan follows the language of Catalonia's education system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.15.0	I, finally, to position himself has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.16.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's start with the data on the sociolinguistic situation in our country. All the questions, all the studies are unanimous: we are in an already long and consolidated process of retreating from the social use and the school use of català. Years ago we also found ourselves in a context of backwardness continued in the application of immersion, regardless of who has ruled. On the other hand, we have clear precedents of already applied and unanswered sentences on the part of the Generality's successful governments that force the application of twenty-five_per_cent. And a first question that we have to ask ourselves and that we have to ask to the Government: counsel, president, after this law that they intend to approve today and the decree that they intend to approve accordingly, are they almost fifty schools that are already applying the twenty-five percent by court order re-establishing precise and clear instructions from the president and the councilman immediately cease to apply this twenty-five percent? Will the Canet School receive precise signed instructions for you indicating that they immediately stop applying the twenty-i-five_per_cent? It's a question we ask them and we expect them to answer very quickly. Well, let's continue with the context: attacks on the right and the extreme right with judicial connivance to impose more castella and less català. And this is not just here in Catalonia, but at the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. This is a battle and a battle of country, of the conjunction of the nation. Citizens in their worst political moment assoleix, from the hand of the PSC, that you, Esquerra Republicana, Juntes per Catalunya and the commons, take a first step to introduce bilingualism to Catalan schools in substitution of immersion mediating the consideration of the castle as a curriculum language. And, listen, the Council of State Guarantees cannot be clearer: "The law's proposal, I literally read, "sets up a wider use of the castle in the education system to respect the contingencies of the law of Catalonia and the law of linguistic policy, in the measure that as novelty respects these two laws explicitly reverses its curriculum and educational use. On the other hand, we find ourselves in a general framework of hegemony of the castle in the social use of languages in communication media, in networks, in education and digital reading and in economic activity. Well, what would I do in a context of this naturala? What should we expect from a government that we really wanted to face this situation? Obviously, applying the current legislation and regulations in order to apply linguistic immersion throughout the educational system without exclusions as required in order to ensure that the Catalan language is common, shared, cohesive and can be normalized. Or, otherwise, if that was insufficient, develop a new legislation that confirms the català as the only vehicle language. This is what we should expect from a government that certainly wants to deal with this situation; but it also provides the educational resources needed to ensure the best linguistic competence of all the students in Catalan, English and Spanish. And also avoid segregating school for language reasons by applying the same linguistic project to all schools. Why, listen, if we apply immersion to everything and catalá is the only vehicle language, what are we talking about? What are they talking about when they refer to the diversity of linguistic projects and the autonomy of centres? So, listen'm, it's obvious: you legislate in favour of schools being able to have different proportions in the curricular uses of castle and català and, therefore, of school segregation by reason of language. The student will find different language projects depending on which school you attend. Educational liberalism and, consequently, inequity and affluence of the coordinating role of the català. It would also be useful to look forward to protecting the teaching teams by fully assuming the responsibilities of the Department of Education in a common and general linguistic project across the country and also, based on the great social consensus on immersion, promoting the articulation and mobilization of a wide social movement at national and local level in defense of the application of this model in all educational centres. But, in turn, what does the Government propose – what does the Government propose – and the parties proposing this law proposal? Legislative and regulatory measures that formalize the castle as a curriculum language, infringing, as is the judgment, the law of linguistic policy and the LEC – also told us by the Council of State Guarantees – and opening the door to its vehicularity. Today you open the door to bilingualism at Catalan schools, and open the door to school segregation from the diversity of linguistic projects and the autonomy of centres. And, in addition, this is done without the consent of the majority of the educational community. And they must have been far more than three months, with all the resources of the government and of the four promoters, to make this nyap? Really? Mirin, I followed carefully your interventions in the Faristol, and they were pathetic; distorting social support for your proposal, Mr. Cid, please do not lie to the Faristol: you have neither negotiated nor agreed with the majority of the educational community. But the inconsistency of his ideas was made even more evident when questions from journalists did not know what or how to answer the meaning of "the curriculum language and whether or not it was synonymous with "the vehicle language, or about the changes in this law's proposal respect the previous, which they withdrew, of changing the law of linguistic policy. Mirin, this law and the decree that will follow it will probably not only be of little use in dealing with the feeling of the twenty-five per cent, but they will only take advantage of our legislative instruments to defend the català at school and immersion, with a new law that as such prevails over the previous ones and that enshrines the bipolarity of the castle, bilingualism and segregation. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Borràs, is this the legislature of confrontation with the State and of unilaterality that you have promised in your electoral campaign? And, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, is this the democratic conflict with the State to defend rights and country consensus? They abandon immersion and remove their responsibilities for the schools in the language conflict. And, finally, in the instructions given to the schools, make it clear that their linguistic projects guarantee – it is literal – "the use of the castle curriculum so that the department and the council can validate them. Well, either choose and decide: either for the Nyap you have raised – bilingualism, segregation – or choose to fight the right and the extreme right defending immersion and català as the only vehicle language, to guarantee linguistic equality and cohesion through the Catalan language, to respond to the requests and proposals of the educational community, on the loose, to reverse the detail and to achieve a truly inclusive school that respects the rights of its workers. And also build a strong consensus with the educational community to shield the Catalan school before attacks on immersion and its cohesion. We have put forward a proposal, reforming Catalonia's education law by closing the català as the only vehicle language and avoiding school segregation by reason of language, which you have neither wanted nor debated – nor debated – in this Parliament. But the battle for the català at school doesn't end here. The right and the extreme right, the State and the courts will continue to press and repress to impose more castle on the school. And now, thanks to your law and your claudication, I may have a little easier. They will have another legislative instrument to use to claim bilingualism at school. We ask you to remove this law; we are still in time. Withdraw this law and we're making a brand-name linguistic project for all centers, thus avoiding linguistic segregation. A brand project that guarantees català as the only vehicle language and the necessary resources so that immersion can be applied to all centers in the country successfully and with guarantees so that the Catalan language becomes this common language, shared for all and against no one, this language that makes us a country and that cohesions us. Open a genuine and real dialog_mark. They follow a table with the educational community, really. And let's start working to build a legislative and executive action that truly reflects our country's majority consensus for a Catalan school for everyone. We, with the educational community, will continue to fight for català at school as a common language and shared by everyone and, as I said, against no one, without exclusions, as a tool of equity against school segregation. We will continue to defend the great consensus on immersion, the consensus for public school and in catalá, and we will take care of the Catalan Countries. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.17.0	The President of the Generality has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and all those who have joined us in this House today... These are the words of a brief speech of thanks to the Members and Members of the House who today have led to a great agreement of consensus, a great agreement of the country on Catalan language and on the Catalan school. I would therefore like to thank all the parliamentary groups that have participated in this consensus, which have made it a responsibility, which have made it a defence of Catalonia's educational model, and have also done so in order to preserve social cohesion in our country. A consensus that represents a country agreement, that is open and that wants to add today those who have not yet joined in this vote. An agreement based on the responsibility of this Parliament to legislate. We do not resign from our responsibility to legislate in the fundamental questions for the country. And, therefore, today it is legislative because the laws approve them in this Parliament and not in any other way. And legislating from responsibility for consensus means negotiation; it means striving to understand the position of others; it means accepting nuances; it means, sometimes, not going to the speed that you want in an initial. But, finally, the result is positive and has been thanks to this responsibility. With what we are voting today, we place Catalan language and Catalan language as the backbone of the Catalan school language model, before risks, before threats we have encountered in the past few years. I have overcome it with a great deal of parliamentary agreement. And next to català as a vertebrator of the language model of the school in our country, we must continue to work for a quality educational model, which guarantees a good that must be over political discussions; a good that must be over positions that legitimately every Member of the defence in this Parliament, which is the social cohesion of our country. And this is also an agreement for social cohesion, because language and language are not used partisanly to attack this social cohesion, which is a good thing to preserve, to work to ensure. Because we remember that today that fracture and risk breaking Catalan society is not language but inequality and it is the poor. And, therefore, working to ensure social cohesion is also avoidable..., ensuring that the school of party and political use is preserved. My thanks to all the Members and Members who today make it possible. My thanks also go to the leaders of the parliamentary groups who have been bringing forward this bill and also to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the head of the opposition, who are now making this agreement possible. An agreement that, as I said, has yet to be expanded. It's open doors, that's the deal, 'cause everybody's gone. The thanks also to the entities, to the professionals, to all the technical wisdom that, from the legal point of view and from the sociolinguistic point of view, have brought to us the legal services of the Government and the Secretary of Linguistic Policy. We've taken a step forward like the country, but the Catalan school and the Catalan language are working, they're defending and they're promoting every day. We count on all the deputies and deputies so that's it. Thank you very much. And very good morning to everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.19.0	The intervention of the President of the Generalitat obre return to the parliamentary groups that want to intervene. We begin, therefore, from major to minor, by the head of the opposition, Mr. Salvador Illa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, as the intervention has been four minutes, the word will be two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.20.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, five things. First of all, I would also like to thank everyone who has made this agreement possible and the groups that will support it. And I also want to make a very special thank you to the Secretary of Language Policy. Secondly, to say that the best service we can do to the catalá is to reach consensus like today, between different groups, between groups that we think differently, but that we are able to agree. Thirdly, I agree with what Mr Aragonès has said; this must be an open consensus and, therefore, I also commit my group's work in order to extend the support of the consensus that we have reached today in other formations. In fourth place, I'd like this deal today not to be a one-point deal, but a one-point deal. And I also compromise the efforts of my group in the national pact for the Catalan that the Councillor of Culture is leading. And in five places and last, since... as we see the things from my group, defending the català is not attacking the castle, which is also the mother tongue of many Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.21.0	Then, has the word Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.22.0	Thank you, President. President, Members and Members, the Catalan language and the Catalan school has always been a sign of consensus and agreement to the Parliament of Catalonia. Marta Mata and President Pujol. That we all continue to conjure ourselves – all of us – here in Parliament and abroad, to all parliamentary chambers, because the clusters of justice come out of the school and out of the Catalan school. And encourage among all the social uses of català. For this reason, equipping them with the teaching teams, teachers and teachers who make a big pocket and the management teams is a political obligation; and it is a duty to legislate it also in the Parliament of Catalonia, in order to preserve the most important thing we can have any parent, which is the education of our children, who are the future of the nation. That is why Parliament has done its job. The Parliament of Catalonia has done the job. Now, I am close to the Government, which I am convinced will complete the work that the Catalan Parliament has done to protect the directions of the centres. Pompeu Fabra, from exile, in one of his last cards, wrote to us all Catalans and recommended that we work, that we work, that we work every day because the language conreu can never be abandoned. As I am convinced that from exile too, the one who was a Councillor of Culture, the deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mr Lluís Puig. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.23.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.24.0	Thank you, President. Today we once again highlight a chapter of betrayal by the Socialist Party of all Catalans, a socialist party that presented itself to the elections as an alternative to separatism. Today, once again, an insult to the middle classes and to the working classes is spelt out here. The Socialist Party allows separatist totalitarianism to advance without control and mercilessly trampling upon the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. But make it very clear that, in this Parliament, until this parliamentary term, there had never been an opposition like that which exists now, led by the parliamentary group which I have the honour to lead. This parliamentary group will fight until the final victory to regain the legitimate rights of all Catalans, and I assure you that the sooner our children in Catalonia will be able to go to school in Spanish despite all of you. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.25.0	On behalf of the People's Unity Candidature, Deputy Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.26.0	Thank you, President. Look, president, do you know why your representatives are running away from studying at the Faristol the day we presented the bill's agreement? Because it's obvious that curriculum means "vehicleing," because it opens the door to the use of the castle. [[some applause]] beyond the learning of the idiom, and that is why you are going to drive. That's why the Board of State Guarantees tells them they've done very well, because they're in line with the regulations in force. That's why you're working today on the door to bilingualism at the Catalan school. And because what you're doing is adapting Catalan legislation to the main thesis of the TSJ. It's not the percentage, the main thesis of the TSJ, that's not an instrumental derivative; the main thesis is that the castle has to be curriculum and vehicle language, and that's what you're doing. The lords of the Socialist Party, unfortunately, give us reason, we would like to swallow it. Well, as we've told you, what you're doing now is moving the conflict to the schools and society. There we will be with the educational community, defending it as always. With the law that they intend to pass today and the decree that they intend to approve further forward, they create an instrument, as I have said, as little useful as counter-product. One more tool to be used by the courts at the hour of appealing to the castle's vehicularity. I, mirin, is not concerned to expand the parliamentary consensus with the CUP, not pateixin, is not concerned. What they need to worry about is to agree and negotiate with the educational community, which they have abandoned. [[some applause]] in the defense of català at school and in the defense of the labor rights of people who have to apply immersion without resources. Consensus, talking to the educational community and then being us. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.27.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Today is a good day for Catalonia. It's a good day for Catalonia and it's also a good day for equal opportunities. We're shielding immersion and social cohesion, despite the sound, the crispness, the impotence and the bereavement of a few pockets, because I'm a lot of pockets that move you between self-odds, because you don't support your own culture, and classism, because you don't want the children of the working classes to have this equality of opportunity that does offer linguistic immersion. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, VOX and the People's Party do an exercise: look for a child who does not know how to speak castle when the compulsory education ends. I, meanwhile, stop lying and try to divide us. I'm done. Just as the Catalan language is the language of all and of all, and we do not give it to independence, they are not mistaken: the castle is also the language of all and of all, it is not only of the extreme right and of the Spanishist right, it is also our language. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.29.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.30.0	Few things to say, ladies and gentlemen. Basically, address me to Mr. Illa. Do you realize, Mr Illa, what the representatives of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana have said here? What was the statement they were saying? That this law that you have served them, the two parties that govern in the Government of Spain, will serve you in order not to comply with the twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish in the classrooms of Catalonia that previews our Constitution, that previews the Supreme Court and that previews the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia. I, as the representative of Ciutadans in Parliament, feel deeply ashamed and tired of seeing how you lie to the people. They lie continually, leave the weakest at the feet of the horses and assume the discourse of the most supremacist and exclusive nationalism that has existed in Catalonia in the last forty years. And it is shameful that you, by keeping in power and by future pacts that you can make here in Catalonia, put the black in white before Catalan society. It's an absolute shame. Certainly, do not count on Ciutadans to validate this speech. Do not count on us to stand in the face of the abuses of this Catalan nationalism that is increasingly being unleashed. And that there is no counter-relationship in one of the main parties in Spain, in the Socialist Party, to compensate for this nationalist populism and not to submit to the populism of Podemos continuously. I'm so sorry. This sows greater discord and less coexistence in Catalonia for the years to come. You're getting us into a dead end for the next few years. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-08-3103.31.0	So, after the speeches, we shall now proceed to the votes. I am sure that, for this session, four Members have voted. We will begin by voting on the issue of the full return of the alternative text proposed by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. This item received 9 votes in favour and 124 votes against. Next, we jointly vote on the two points to the full return of the proposed law submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Mixed Group. The vote begins. These two items received 20 votes in favour and 104 votes against, and 9 people who do not vote. Next, we now vote on the deletion of the following additional provision presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the Joint Group for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. The vote begins. This suppression campaign has obtained 104 votes in favour and 29 votes against. We now vote on the idea of changing the final provision, which has also been presented jointly by these four parliamentary groups: Socialists and Units for Progress, Republican Left, Junts for Catalonia and En Comú Pode. The vote begins. This item received 104 votes in favour and 29 votes against. We now vote on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal. The vote begins. The rest of the text received 103 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. And finally, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, we vote in the final vote on the joint text. The vote begins. The proposed law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching has been approved by 102 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 1 abstention. The session's up. [[Greetings.]]
