ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Homage in memory of former Member of Parliament Esteban Casado Poveda]] [[401-00013/13]] And we did it in a very special way, because at this time we are going to end up paying tribute to the memory of former Member of Parliament Mr Esteban Casado Poveda. L'Esteban was a Member of the First Legislature after the restoration of Parliament and died on the 26th generation of 2020. He had to be honored, as we are supposed to be here in Parliament, with a gloss on behalf of a company of his formation, and it couldn't be because the first Plea in which he had to be - made the homenation was the first Plea affected by the covid. So today we give them this tribute. And I want to address a very special greeting to the family, his wife and his niece, and to the friends who are with us today. I urge you to accept our most sincere condolences and the feeling of friendship and respect expressed to you by the Parliament of Catalonia. He will now have the word, to make the gloss, the deputy of the Socialist Group, Mr David Pérez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.2.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Generality, members of the Government, Mr Salvador Illa, Head of Opposition, Members and Members of Parliament, family and friends accompanying us, I would like to address the first words of this tribute to the family and friends of Esteban Casado Poveda who are at the rostrum: to his wife, Maria Rosa ; to her neboda, the Mercedes Luz, who speaks with pride that she also was in that first constitutive session of this Parliament, not accompanying her aunt, but working as a press journalist ; to her friend, her business friend and her friend from the UGT, the Justo Torralba, and to Mr Juan Ignacio Pujana, company and friend, also from the Esteban Casado. He was born in Ciudad Real on 11 September 1943 and resided in the Hospitallet, where he held an active social, political and trade union militancy. Now we remembered, a while ago, precisely, his struggle with the workers of the Vanguard. He became the first secretary of the Socialist Group of Santa Eulàlia. Mechanic to the company of the SEAT, affiliated to the UGT and very connected to the metal world, joined the Socialist Federation of Catalonia, of the PSOE, the year 1975, where he was a member of the National Committee, and later became national secretary of the PSC in the activity of trade union policy. In 1980 he is a member of the PSC for Barcelona, this first legislature, which also shares it with the socialist company Eduardo Martín Toval, whom we welcomed precisely in 2019. In this first legislature, somehow, the foundations of this institutional architecture and legislative architecture that we have today in Catalonia were laid. Esteban Casado was a member of the Social Policy Commission of this Parliament and the Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism Commission. Commissions in which it was active in legislative activity in the fields of waste, trade, tourism, mining, energy, trade and tourism; and social services, especially in the field of children's rights and youth, to the Social Policy Committee. His task of controlling the Government was marked by his union militancy to the UGT, in which he held different levels of responsibility in Catalonia and also in Spain – he was in the federal executive of the UGT – and asked questions about the strict control of the realization of extraordinary hours and about campaigns or actions in the field of occupational health. I was always impressed by his vision, which, somehow, was a reflection of his personality; a consistent, strong, strong and combative vision. A few months before his death we found ourselves in the streets of the St. Eulàlia's Barracks, and after running a political moment, he asked me to be able to retrieve his first-legislature MP's notebook. Thanks to the maids, they did it in a few days. Because, MPs and MPs, parliamentary activity will never forget it. President Rigol, in his speech of ownership in this chamber, said to us: "All of you, for the sake of being Members of this Parliament, are Catalan patriots, but patriotism, in the sense of serving people, in the sense of surrender, compromise and exemplaryness, of working for others, as one of the most worthy and noble attitudes of being humane, this vocation of service, this politics with capitals. And Esteban Casado, to his city, to his company, to his barri, to his union, to Castellet and the Gornal also, and also in this Parliament, was a clear example of all this. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.3.0	And then, as it is also required to do, I invite you to keep a minute of silence in memory of the former deputy. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the increase of the Catalan premieres of audiovisual plataforms]] [[310-00237/13]] So let's get to the first point of the order of the day, ask them with an oral answer. He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the increase of the Catalan premieres of audiovisual plataforms. The question is posed by Mr Engelbert Montalà, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.4.0	Thank you, President. She'll advise, our children don't look at audiovisual contents like we did, from a time ago. They look at them sorting out the minute they want to see, when they want to see it, and at the idiom they want to see it. Knowing how to read the current context, the Government, at the beginning of this legislature, has put the needle in order to respond to the current challenges and address the situation in which the Catalan language is ultimately found. And it is in this legislature, therefore, that we have put ourselves to work in català on audiovisual plataforms, with work on various fronts that have taken place at the end both of the Department of Culture and of the joint departments of the Generality. In the first place, arriving at an audiovisual agreement with plataforms like Movistar Plus or Filmin, which are obliged to make a sis_per_cent in Catalan and co-official languages, and, recently, fulfill a compromise with one of the most contingent plataforms, Netflix. It is obvious that Catalan content is of interest and has value in the audiovisual market, and not just in Catalonia. For the past seven years, Netflix has been installed in Spain, and it is with this Republican government that we are reverting a situation through a negotiation that has come to a good end. It is obvious, therefore, that it is up to us to work to increase the presence of català in all possible sectors, and that it would be easier if we were to dispose of all the tools. I'm sure it would also be a lot easier if we were prepared for the Catalan Republic, which is mostly in the same direction and which defends the 10_million Catalans we have. But what we have is a state that often works against it, and hence the merit of this negotiation. That's why, Counselor, we're asking you what actions are being taken from the Department of Culture to increase the Catalan share of digital plataforms. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.5.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.6.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Montalà – good morning, deputies and deputies – català is a priority of the government, of the whole government. In reality, all government departments are working to promote the use of català in all spheres. From the Department of Culture..., for us two of the priority axes are Catalan and audiovisual. In the audiovisual we are doing a lot of performances, but one of them is talking to the plataforms, because we have to be there where everyone is looking and we have to be in català where everyone is looking, and now everyone is looking at the plataforms. Therefore, it is one of our main objectives. Since the beginning of this legislature, we're talking to all the plataforms, and we're talking about three things. The first of the objectives is to incorporate into the catalogue all those films that we already have folded to the català, that we have folded them because TV3 since 1983 is doubling to the català, and therefore we have more than nine thousand titles in this language, and because from the Language Policy Secretariat since 2013 we are making a task of helping all majors in the doubling of films that go to the salt, basically as children and young people. This is the first objective. The second is that they come in as co-producers in films and series in catalá, that they come in the Catalan productions, so that we can have films with a higher assumption and more muscular films, and therefore that they see with a better bill. And finally, to incorporate the fold and the subtitle, these films and serials that appear in the plataforms. Actually, this is what Netflix is doing right now. As a result of the talks, Netflix announces the commitment to incorporate the català as a minimum in seventy titles a year. This translates into two-hundred hours of subtitle and twenty hours of folding. And we celebrate. And we're celebrating that the galley and the basketball have been incorporated as well. It's a first step, actually. Is that enough? No, no, We continue to work because we incorporate all the films we have folded and because they are produced in catalá. In conclusion, we strengthen the audiovisual sector, one of the strategic axes, and we are convinced that during this year we will continue to have good news in this area. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.7.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full to the measures taken before the effects of the war on Ukraine in the industrial and business sector. [[Asks the Government about the measures taken before the effects of the war on Ukraine in the industrial and business sector]] [[310-00238/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.8.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, conseller, good morning. The war in Ukraine has impacted on the industrial fabric, on the small and medium-sized enterprise of our country. It's impacting on popular classes. It is impacting after, moreover, the effects of the covid and that we are still in full consequences of the covid. Before this, IBEX 35's six major energy companies have achieved 10,117_million inputs, quadrupling its results. For the other band, we have to double the bill for the light, this bill for the light that directly impacts these small and medium-sized enterprises, this bill for the light that is also conditioning the lives of all people, of the popular classes, of the working class, of the lower ones of our country. And, before all this, the government of the state is making a move away from those decisions that can help..., as it has been recovering this top of the cents per megawatt/hour. And, besides, it's incorporating measures that are completely unsatisfactory. Now it seems that the next day at the Council of Ministers we will have great news, but for now it's all fire of incense. Faced with this situation, the companies of our country need a government that accompanies them, needs a government that is at their side, needs a government that, in effect – in effect – sees that the opportunity we have at this time is to make a change, a transformative change. In Ukraine we have 1,300 Catalan companies operating there. It's fifty-five export destinations, a 0.2 out of the total. But from their department it is essential that they are at their side, also for class consciousness, also for the defense of the working class. Who are the measures that you are applying from the department? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.9.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.10.0	Thank you, President, thank you, Member. What are we doing from the Department of Business and Work? From the start, make a surgical follow-up to the companies most directly affected, especially the eighty-two subsidiaries that in one country or the other operate, say, Russia or Ukraine. For another band, we have also created workspaces with social and economic agents, particularly an ad hoc working group with international agents of the Catalan economy, with whom we normally already work, huh? On the other hand, also what we are doing is making available the entire Action network, both Action in Barcelona and the forty offices of the world, to make a concrete follow-up to those companies that are looking for us markets, looking for alternative suppliers, alternative distributors..., alternatives, in short, to the situation that is being experienced in those markets with which they are related, that are Russia, Ukraine and the whole of central Europe. On the other hand, we are also improving until the eighty-eight per_cent personalized help to projects of entrepreneurs that want to expand internationally. And finally, we've redoubled our efforts at the existing technical barriers office, and we've created the unique supply and logistics window. But, aside from all this, certainly the most important or the hardest, at these times, with general character, is the price of energy and fuels. And here, obviously, the State has to move file. It's getting late and it's bad. They are not making decisions, and, moreover, they are sending erratic messages. What do we propose here? From now on, a market intervention limiting prices or decoupling the electricity market gas market. On the other hand, we are also talking about helping, offering help to the most affected sectors. The State could plant help to sectors that are living more dramatically in this situation, help sufficiently equipped not to generate more frustration. And, if there is also talk of acting on the prices for the tax press band, it should be taken into account that this also impacts on public events – so, in the possibility of making public policies – and that, on the other hand, this must be accompanied by intervention on the market, because the message cannot be that crises pay for them the same as they always do. In any case, the State has to act, Europe has to act, because the situation is critical for families, for businesses. We no longer had their competitiveness, we had their survival. Therefore, one has to respond quickly. There is no strategic autonomy that is worth, there is no culmination of the transformation of the product model that is worth, with these energy prices. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.11.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the recovery for public use of the Loran base, to the Parc Natural del Montgrí. [[Ask the Government about the recovery for public use of the Loran base, to the Natural Park of Montgrí]] [[310-00239/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Torrentà, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.12.0	Good morning, Counselor Jordan. Sixty-one years after the Francoism expropriated the municipal lands of the Alta de la Pedrosa, of the Estartit, to surrender them to the Coast Guard of the United States, it will be a republican government that returns them to who had long been returned: to its people. A large space at the beautiful mig of the Natural Park of Montgrí will be public, as it has to be. It is thirty-five hectares of non-urban land that for thirty years were the installations of the Loran base, a radionavigation station for the Mediterranean that was closed in 1995 and has since been abandoned. Only the antenna and residue removal tasks have been carried out. That's what the state did in twenty-seven years of the lockup. There have been many municipal teams from the government of the Torroella de Montgrí and Estartite joints that have for years claimed their restitution and return, without reply. Despite everything, the Ministry of Defense put him down three years ago for the first time. Four subchutes later, he initially awarded it directly to a private individual. The Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia to the Senate has formulated written questions to the Government and to the Institute of Habitatge, Infrastructure and Defence Equipment on this action, without answer yet. It is of republican government to worry about its territory, its natural spaces, its towns and cities. The government has said that it will exercise the right of withdrawal, paying the buyer the import for which he acquired it, to return the space to which his moral and legitimate owner is. Counsel, I'd like you to tell us at what point in the process is this operation and the destination of this area so claimed for the people of Torroella de Montgrí and Estartit. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.13.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of the government, president, deputies and deputies..., deputy Torrentà, effectively, the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda we have already exercised the right of withdrawal of Loran's station because this space returned to where it had never had to stop, which is just a public use, huh? In fact, we have already invested at these times 468,000 euros in this construction and lands located at the limits of the Montgrí Natural Park, obviously of the Medes and Baix Ter Islands, because I return, as you well said, to the city, I repeat, from which I should not have left, in this case, ever. That's why we're recovering this public use of this farm, a 350,000 square meters farm. And now it's about knowing what we're gonna do with these 350,000 square meters of land and six thousand square meters built. All right, let's do whatever the territory wants us to do, huh? He's the one who's around and he's the one who's supposed to go through all the time. In any case, there were two or three ideas from the table. One of them is that in one part of the farm the natural park facilities are located, either to store or to do different activities. This is an option. There are other options. Another one that is also speaking is precisely that part of the estate is dedicated to giving just support to the different interpretive itineraries that are being made in the area respecting the Cold War, eh? In short, if I may, what we need to achieve is to put this unique natural space in value. What we need to do is to put in value the flora, fauna and landscape, recover the base of Loran and ultimately put in value and at the center of this unique ecosystem that we have in our country. We are those – you said – that we are for natural parks, that we are for public use and to return all this to the city. And we are what we always say – always – than to the military bases of the Spanish army. Yes, in the natural park, not everyone I see, obviously, with militarism. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.15.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on rail services. [[Ask the Government about railway services]] [[310-00230/13]] Asks the question Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President Puigneró, the Lands of the Ebro are today a territory in full process of reindustrialisation, with the implementation of large enterprises like Kronospan, Florette or many others that are making the business grow, and therefore the places of work. But to be more competitive territorially speaking, we need good connections of medium and long radius. Competition not only for businesses in the territory, but also to promote and achieve good conditions of mobility for all people living in the High Land, the Ribera d'Ebre, the Montsia and the Baix Ebre. At a time when we have already overcome the hardest effects of the cove, the recovery of economic activity, the possibility of teletreball and the mobility of this area – the Jewry – are key for us. This context makes today's petition essential: to re-arrange Euromed railway services at the Aldea-Amposta-Tortosa station. This high speed train makes its way through the Mediterranean Corridor, connects València and Barcelona parades to Castelló and Camp de Tarragona, but for a long time now not to the Village, all that happens daily. The state's commitment to Jewish rail services is null and void. It has the skills and does not deploy them, as with the High Speed Front connecting Tortosa, the Village, Camp Tarragona and Barcelona. The pandemic caused him to withdraw, but now no trace, from the necessary repositioning. In addition, on November 2020, the Committee on Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda of the Congress approved a proposal not by law that the ministry should guarantee the stops of Euromed trains at the Aldea-Amposta-Tortosa station with a minimum of four daily trains in Barcelona and four in València. It had to be implemented in a three-month period to make the February 2021. We're in March 2022, and one year later, nothing, the Euromed don't stop in the Village. At a time of liberalisation of high speed, it would be serious to make it incompatible with the public service, precisely because it has to be available to the citizens of the territories for which these trains are running, and not to go as far as it is now. For all the talk, Vice President, we want to ask you for the railway services, and, in concrete terms, for this service so necessary to my four comarques, those of the Lands of the Ebre. What management is the government doing to make it possible? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.17.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Miri, from the Territorial Policy Department, we work, and one of the great goals we have in this department is to work for territorial vertebracy, for territorial cohesion, for territorial balance, and also for decarbonization, because we have to fight against climate change. And one of the best ways and one of the best ways to make it possible is a clear bet for collective transport, and especially for the train. In this sense, in order to be able, obviously, therefore, to promote railway policies in our country, we need to keep the tools. As you said very well, in the case of Euromed you are absolutely right. This train stopped at the Village before the pandemic. During the pandemic it was suppressed. We could try to hear the reasons for which this happened – obviously because of the lack of passengers – but now there is no reason not to recover this stop at this station here in the Lands of the Jews. It is essential and necessary for its development. And from this perspective, from the government, and specifically from my department, we transferred it by letter to the ministry on October 2021. Letter, of course, which has not yet been answered. After a few months, we continue to wait for an answer about why it is not placed in service this stop to the Village. We think it's necessary, and we will continue to insist on that. But it is clear that the issue of railway policy in our country only has a definitive solution, which is that it is making an integral transfer of these policies to the Government of Catalonia. It's not just the government anymore, it's the city now. The recent CEO, the last of the CEO's questions, said and said that the seventy percent of Catalans want railway policy in Catalonia to be managed by the Catalonian Government. Therefore, we are ahead of one of the country's great consensuses. Fixed's you, a percentage similar to the people who want a reference for this country. Therefore, Catalans are wise people, intelligent people, and they know who wants them to handle the important things of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.19.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the Congress of Youth. [[Ask the Government about the Youth Congress]] [[310-00231/13]] The question is raised, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Group, by Mrs Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. Counselors, MPs... Today I address Constellera Cervera to be able to speak of the Congress of Youth of Catalonia brought to term this week's head to the city of Mataró, to my region, to Maresme. A convention that I was able to participate in together with many other young people mobilized to stop the country, who wanted to give their daytime concerns through ponies, through working groups, dynamics, and with a single objective, which is to lay the foundations of the new national youth plan. A plan that has to start with a clear diagnosis of the situation of young people and structural problems – through the 2008 financial crisis that we are still experiencing, from the health crisis of the covid-19 – and to which we have to face and give answers through emancipation and housing, through formation and occupation or mental and emotional salvation. What we are dealing with, however, we are also concerned about, from this Parliament, where we are about to commit ourselves to bringing to fruition a monographic plethora of the first month of May which, therefore, puts youth policies at the centre of the debate and at the centre of the decision-making process of the country's main institutions. In this sense, also from the Department of Social Rights different actions have taken place since the beginning of the legislature that we want to put in place, such as the increase in the assumption of the Directorate General of Youth – with a twenty-i-four_per_cent–, the creation of a new public housing of social logue – to target it as a twenty-i-five_per_cent for young people – or actions to combat depopulation with the Odysseus program, among many other examples. Finally, I would like to add a further reflection which I have often been able to convey in different committees of this Parliament. And it's that we often feel, in different spaces, that young people are the future. And it's true, it's the future, but to guarantee this first future we must begin by guaranteeing its..., or our present, that it is immediate and that it asks us all and everyone. For this reason, counsel, we would like to know what conclusions have been drawn from the celebration of the Congress of Youth in Catalonia as a turning point, and to thank him again for the task he brings to completion. And make us available, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, to move forward with these young people with plans. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.21.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.22.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. As you said, this weekend, on 17, 18 and 19, Mataró ended the Youth Congress. First of all, let's not just congratulate the organizers, but all the participants, more than six hundred people who have participated in it face-to-face and also telematically; but not those who have participated in it this weekend, but more than two thousand people who have participated in these pre-congresses. To highlight, in a very salient way, the importance also of the international presence, which must strengthen us and strengthen us as referents in youth policies. To tell them that the conclusions of this convention will be made public in a manner similar to them, but I would like to highlight, in a certain way, some of the ideas that you yourself have also told us. During the convention the young people have aspired to talk about health, training and work, and also about housing. And in salvation, as it cannot be in any other way..., a very special reference to all policies of mental and emotional salvation, placing above all the emphasis on territorial differences and calling for community attention in the face of excessive medicalization. There has also been talk of emancipation policies, dealing with the whole issue of training and work. Since it cannot be otherwise, they have highlighted the lack of work and job insecurity. And ask, among other things, more links between youth and education or the implications of small and medium-sized enterprises. And, in terms of housing, while it cannot be otherwise, they have highlighted the lack of housing precisely for young people and the lack of housing for social logger. Also ask to update alternative models, such as urban masoveria or housing cooperative. We have also been surprised by the dangers and opportunities that they themselves have highlighted. Perils and opportunities in the new technologies: they themselves say that they have wiped out public and private space, and are manifesting digital goldsmiths. They say they have grown enveloping in technology, but no referents in their learning. Also concerned about digital Britain, they ask that it is work and that it is built a digital citizenship, but especially with young people. As you said, in some ways they have also asked us not to criminalize them – we have stigmatized them during the pandemic – and that above all these jobs also serve to elaborate, as you said, the national plan, without forgetting the climate change and neither participation in the world of culture. Therefore, a good convention, a good participation of young people, which, obviously, we have to keep as reference in order to be able to act and advance in the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.23.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the judicial instruments to fight against insecurity in Barcelona. [[Ask the Government about judicial tools to fight insecurity in Barcelona]] [[310-00232/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Counselor, four years ago insecurity is once again the main concern of barcelons and barcelons. It's not a perception. I'm told the dice. I said the victimization question: at the length of the year, one person in Barcelona will be the victim of a crime. These are the same data we had in the eighth year, the same insecurity, the same crime. A crime that affects the freedom of movement especially of women, sexual freedom, labor and economic freedom, and that directly attacks equal opportunities, since they are the most vulnerable barrels those that are degrading themselves more quickly. Besides, it's fostering a populist perilous speech of the extreme right that we'd all have to go through. That is why, in order to deal with this difficult problem of insecurity that afflicts the capital of our country, we need to act from all walks of life. Obviously, we need to act to have a good police response – which is already being done – with more and better police, well trained, well equipped, democratic, which generates confidence in the citizenry and which has the support – which has not always had – of the Barcelona Assembly. We must act with effective legislative measures, legislative measures which the Socialist Minister of Justice is putting up with, as the necessary reform of the Criminal Code, in order to resolve the scandal involving multirecidence. But we also need to act to have a system of justice and answers from the realm of justice that are effective. At present the slowness exasperating at the time of the judiciaries generates a difficult problem of inefficiency in the justice system, which generates impunity in delinquents, defencelessness in the citizenry and frustration in the security bodies. Different Barcelona entities and associations have come to you to claim support to keep better – for example, to have a _second guard in Barcelona for criminal prosecutions – but also to strengthen the resources to celebrate presumptive prosecutions for cases such as violent robbers' crimes in the public street, which should be resolved within fifteen days and which have failed to see judgments with eleven_monthly dates after the events. We understand that from their department they are denouncing and claiming better because the infra-financing and under-dotting in history..., to justice in Catalonia and the courts especially... (The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.25.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.26.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP Artadi, certainly the continued perpetration of crimes, thefts, delinquents, eh? – of thefts or robberies –, what makes it abundant in insecurity; moreover, it makes it difficult to live together, and, more importantly – and what is worse – it also gives an image of the country's capital as capital paid for the crime. And from our field of competence, what we want is to face it. So, in the first place, we've already taken a first step to stop the delay in the fast-track judicial review of the capital's criminal courts. And that's why we were proposing reforms to the Supreme Court of Justice in Catalonia, which were adopted, and this allowed us to reduce, as you rightly said, the time to review these fast-track judgments to eleven-month criminal courts, in this case, to five months. And second place, and to fight against what we say, right? , from the increase of thefts and delinquents, I already asked for September that the opening of the second guard court of the capital of Barcelona is extended, because it was predicted to be closed. We asked and did not agree, this measure, on behalf of the council. A few weeks ago, we repeated the petition again because it opened this second day of custody in Barcelona, because it became evident that it was an effective one, because at its time what it allowed, when it was open, was to be reduced from eleven months to fifteen days the time of hearing these fast trials. Therefore, let us hope that the advice is sensitive, because, as you all know, it is the one who ultimately has the decision to open or close justices. And as you can see, we ask, we spend the day asking. And that's because we don't have the tools or resources we need. And it is obvious that, if we hold them, we would have a more efficient, more effective justice, and, moreover, it would not be necessary to ask repeatedly for judicial taxes that are around 60_million euros, which were created to face free justice and that free justice is not benefiting from these judicial taxes. Therefore, let us reiterate the request to the Minister that they make this subscription to us or that they update us at once the modules that we use to determine the constructions of jutjats us, which are obsolete since the year 96. As you see, and as counsel... maximum cooperation, maximum co-responsibility with all law enforcement officers. We only ask for the same: co-responsibility and loyalty. And, in addition, we move a public justice service that is good, that is necessary for the progress and prosperity of our country, but also for the security of the country's capital. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.27.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of education. [[Ask the Government about the situation of education]] [[310-00234/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.28.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr Cambray, fifteen days ago, in the previous plenary session, I asked him about the unprecedented strike that he was called upon to strike, the trigger of which was his unilateral and hasty decision to advance the school year. You, in that plenary, came to me to say that your measures were good and that they had broad support – so good were the measures that you have already had to repeat in any of them. So I ask you again today, Mr Cambray, are you going to continue to state that your measures are good and that they have the support of the faculty? And before you answer me, I remind you that you are in parliamentary office.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.29.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.30.0	President, Congresswoman Roldán, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors... I am fully aware that I am in your parliamentary office. I didn't get the comment, but in any case, I'll answer it. In the first place, welcome people remain in this concern for the Catalan education system, which you helped to detail. After that, I told the previous plenary... we are aware, we are well aware that we are at a time when we are all very tired. Society is tired and our masters are tired too. They've come out of two years of pandemic, two years that haven't been easy people. Two years when they've had to tear it apart, they've always done this, they've had to do things different from how they've done them so far. We carry details that have not been reversed and that have more than two years of history. And so, I understand, as it can't be any other way... I'm putting myself at the mercy of the masters for this discomfort. And what we do is listen and see how we can give response from the education system – everything can't be done now, but one thing after another – to all the better and all the transformation that the Catalan education system needs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.31.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.32.0	Yes, Mr. Counselor, let me see if I can get you to stick to the question I'm asking you now. Look, fifteen days ago, you also told me that no one had told you that your measurements, the measure of advancing the school year, was not good for the student. And I ask you again: Are you sure that no one has told you, Mr Cambray, that this measure was not good? Last week you couldn't even inaugurate the Saló de l'Ensenyament, as you had planned, because the teachers stood at the door waiting for you to tell you in person what they think of this measure and also of the systematic and unjustified abandonment suffered by the council. They did so also in various demonstrations and also at the doors of the schools. And I believe, it seems to me, Mr Cambray, that teachers must know something about what is good for their students. And, look, Mr. Cambray, what you got in that demonstration has no interpretation at all. [[The oratora shows some images in the chamber.]] For example, this here: « Cambray, you're a drunkard. "It's not about the calendar, it's about the mercenary. « Cambray, so, neither now nor ever. This one, which is one of my favourites: "It is sought. Resignation now, Mr. Cambray. Another: « More consensus and less to impose, Mr Cambray. They're messages that the teacher throws at him. But there's more. This one here: « Gonzàlez-Cambray, the little dictator – that's what they call him, Mr. Counsellor. Another: "Enough of lies and impositions. Cambray, resign. Another: "Cambray, neither in process d'assoliment. Moreover, Mr. Cambray, you have many messages that the educational community is sending you. This one here, for example: « Cambray, search't substitute. Another: "There is enough. Cambray, resigned. Honestly, Mr Cambray, I think they're making it very clear to you. They don't want him, they ask him to leave. And maybe you won't listen to them, but with me there's no choice. So what I'm saying to you, echoing this last banner, is: "Bye-bye, Mr. Cambray. Our education deserves a better counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.33.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.34.0	Congresswoman Roldán, you left Ciutadans, but you took the signs. [[Rialles and some applause.]] Listen, what we're doing and what we're doing day to day is making decisions for what's best for the student. I repeat to him what I gave him a couple of weeks ago: there is no one to say that the measure of advancing the school year is not good for the students. It's good for the student because he's running off time in the summer, and it's good for the vulnerable student, who doesn't have the same access to the activities, and who's gonna have more days of groceries. So, we... I, as an education counselor, take decisions based on the student. And these decisions legitimately take them with all the information we need to take them, and then we share them before the consensus and before all the proposals at the time of their deployment. And that's what we do. And that's what we're going to do day after day to give an answer to a better education for our young people and our infants. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.35.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the promotion and financing of the education stage from zero to three years. [[Ask the Government about the promotion and financing of the education stage from zero to three years]] [[310-00226/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Alicia Romero, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In which execution council will you propose to approve the Mark Agreement with sufficient resources to guarantee the P2's gratuity to families generating legal security towards the joints, which are the other responsible part of the financing of this stage?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.37.0	To answer, the word Josep González-Cambray, education advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.38.0	Thank you, President. Member, what we are doing for our own course – I take it – is that we are starting a structural, social, family-conciliation transformation, and, above all, also thinking of the studentship, at this moment of transcendent learning like zero to three and at a stage where equal opportunities are more important than ever. And so, what we're doing is this free education for families for infantile 2, this free education for families for P2. And we'll do it like school, covering school expenses. And this funding we have to the law of the supervision of the premise. Now we are financing a part of the municipal schools through a law accompanying the assumptions, and these 1,600_euros for this gratuity of the schooling of infantile 2 are also in the law accompanying assumptions until the year 2025-2026. Therefore, we have all the financial guarantee.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.39.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.40.0	Look, counselor, you face the most important crisis of the past years in the field of education. You wanted to impose without dialogue or agreement on a new school calendar, and now you want to do the same with the local world, threatening to either agree to what you say or pull for the right. Is this really how Esquerra's advisors act, from the trade union to the local world? We want to remind you that you and your government, of which you are a part, said that you would be free for the P2. But gratuity, counselor, means no cost to families, no cost to families. And that, for the time being, is not guaranteed. Especially because the compromise is his, and what he can't do is compromise the resources of other administrations such as the joints, which carry more than a third of what they have – the year 2017, in front of their retail, forty-three_per_cent of the cost of the school square Bressol. Therefore, tell us, guarantee that it will be zero_euro, the cost for families, without increasing the cost for the joints. Miri, in seven years of tripartite, the Government invested in the education stage 118_million euros. Do you know how much independent governments have invested in it? Forty-two – forty-two – three times less. This is the importance that you give to the educational stage from zero to three. Look, if for you it was so important, you would have tried to fight the poor child, or you would have agreed with the assemblies, agreeing to improve access and equal opportunities. And, of course, I would also advance in universalisation, which is a compromise – and you know it – European, a European compromise for which you will receive from the Government of Spain 55_million euros. And, by the way, speaking of Europe, tell him that we are Catalans, Catalan families, which we pay so much more for all of Europe for what he does at school in Bressol. Miri, let's be champions here again in this, in poor children, in school segregation or in abandonment. Counselor, negotiate and agree, give to this implementing council that must approve this signed agreement in order to give effect to the gratuity. Complete with your word. And above all, they are responsible for their skills, who are all, in the educational stage, and manage what they already have. Because, frankly, I don't understand how much you want more if you're unable to manage what you already have with the resources that are at your hands. Dialogui, counselor, with the unions and with the local world, and I agree this P2 gratuity, which means zero_euros of cost to families. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.41.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.42.0	Congresswoman, I explained it as I explained it, we always do what we say. I repeat it again – I repeat it again –: we will finance the cost of studying families for the next course to children 2. And that's what we're going to do as in the schools: the vast majority of congregations are getting more money than families are currently paying for schooling, we've always explained it the same way – for schooling. I'm worried a little... I'm worried enough – I don't know if it's ever since the misinformation... – that you say and pose in how we're carrying the child 2 process, that's how we carry all the processes, and put the unilateral word there. It's easy, huh? , add to the words that are sentient, but I'm worried. Because we've had meetings and meetings with the joint committee. We've had meetings listening to everything they've told us. We have incorporated all the proposals of the Joint Committee – the Joint Committee is where the meetings and the Education Department are present – all the proposals we have incorporated – all of them. There's a financial guarantee. We set up a follow-up committee. Obviously, with zero to three, I kept the co-responsibility. Therefore, we guarantee how to govern is the financing of the schooling of children's families 2. And the joints, since they can't be otherwise, will continue to be co-responsible from zero to three. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.43.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the educational crisis. [[Ask the Government about the educational crisis]] [[310-00227/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.44.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counselor, last week we had a three-day educational break, a unitary call with a mobilization and a massive follow-up as long ago as we didn't see and which manifested the rebreed to their ways of doing and discomfort before the lack of planning, of resources, of dialog. You, counselor – yes – have the merit of having joined the educational community as never in the last few days against your government. What is their understanding of this situation of educational crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.45.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.46.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Niubó, my understanding is: before a crisis, which you refer to, I see an opportunity. I see an opportunity to learn what we've been through, there's an opportunity to start a new educational phase. I see an opportunity, because the transformations we have to make to improve the education system cannot wait for a generation. And this transformation, we have to restore the bridges that we have, and as long as we do, with dialogue and consent. The follow-up of the slot was what it was: a thirty-three_per_cent to the public and a eight_per_cent to the concert. We have a horizon, we have a dream, which is to improve, to transform the education system with equity. And, therefore, we will continue, with dialogue, as we have always done, to make decisions when we have all the information to take them, and after dialogue and consensus as we carry them to term. And, therefore, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.47.0	To answer the question, you have the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.48.0	Look, counselor, you're not at the height of what education needs at these times. The education community has disqualified him from negotiating, and in fact he has requested his resignation. And you've shown mistrust of the educational agents, you've positioned yourself against the unions, and what you do is improvise, impose, and not put the necessary resources on the table. And education is neither sudden nor necessary, and you have done so, and continually. He announced an advance of the school curriculum without passing through the School Board – which certainly asked for a one-year moratorium – and without taking into account the many implications of this change. And, above all, he has also done so by announcing, as we have said before, the gratuity of the P2 less in-house, that they are co-responsible for education from zero to three years and that they have endured on their spaces this public service for many years, when they do not correspond to them. And he came back to improvise when only a few days ago he decided not to implement the new educational curricula that will take his own course. Why? Because you didn't do your dues when you were playing, when you knew these changes a long time ago, and left the centers to open doors without having the information as to what the next course would be like. But by doing this, you are not only incomplete with LOMLOE – which, of course, Esquerra approved – but you are harming Catalonia's studentship and placing it at an inferior level of conditions at the time, for example, to make PAUs. It is necessary when you tell the municipalist entities that, with or without agreement, you will pull for the right. And it does not put resources on the table either for inclusive school or for quality vocational training or to recover the working conditions of the faculty, as the unions ask. Counselor, you'll have to agree with me that what it's about now is referring to trust with everyone, it's restoring bargaining skills and putting the necessary resources on the table – that the assumptions approved with the commons, certainly, do not contemplate. And a form or part of the solution or part of the problem. And I don't know if the day today you're able to come up with agreements, serene your ancestors and guarantee a good 2022-2023 course. But we have to tell him that if this week doesn't resume the situation, if you don't solve the different fronts that you have opened, you better not leave. If he doesn't, know we'll ask him. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.49.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.50.0	Congresswoman, this isn't the first time I've been asked to resign. They also asked for it in the on-line sisena. She's been asked to leave, to keep the schools open and secure. So, what we're doing now is what we've always said we'd do, which is... the Department of Education never got up from the table. The Department of Education... I am very satisfied with the conversations initiated so that I can find an agreement. We want this deal. And we're willing, as we've always been, to respond to the demands of the educational community, but..., what I said before: we come from a pandemic, we come from some detail, and we can't give answers to everything at this time. And, therefore, with a new premise what we have done, since the first day, to reverse the detail and give answer to historical requests. For the next course, let's rely on the fetuses. For the next course we have a reduction in structural ratios to Catalan schools; we start by reducing the ratio to children 3, less students and more teachers. Conversion from thirds to middles, a historical demand from a long time ago. We've activated... we've got planned, scheduled, a macro-stabilization process. You don't fit the reality when you say we've put an end to the deployment of our résumés. We have defined some new curricula that they do is to facilitate this progressive and flexible deployment so that educational centres can do all the pedagogical debate. We care a lot about where we're going, this time, but it's also important, at the time of defining this direction, that the speed is the right one. We agree. And so, they're resumes... we haven't rectified anything, we haven't changed anything. What they do is adapt to the rhythms of educational centers. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.51.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on urgent and structural measures relating to energy. [[Question to the Government on urgent and structural energy measures]] [[310-00228/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Silvia Paneque, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.52.0	Good morning, Counselor. These weeks we have seen as the European Commission and the Council of Ministers of Environment give to know measures to decrease dependence on Russian gas and energy solidarity with Ukraine. It is clear that the best way to avoid this fragility, this dependence, is to accelerate the energy transition. So, you will advise, who are the urgent and structural measures that this government intends to take before this scene?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.53.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman Paneque, let's give 'em a previa, huh? In view of the situation of this first-class energy crisis, we think that all – all – actions are either short-term or more structural, what they must have or what they must accomplish on the part of any government – of this council, too, obviously – of the Government of the Generality, to whom the competitions touch, basically..., is to put energy at the service of the common good, without any doubt; to put energy at the service of the general interest so that it is not always the citizenry that pays for the consequences. We believe that this is the vision that must prevail. In fact, in all administrations; in all of them, according to their competitions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.55.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.56.0	Counselor, we are well aware of the globality of the challenge, but we need to accelerate the government's momentum in renewable energies, because the gap between what they say and what they do is colossal. You say: "The new government has accelerated the energy transition with determination. According to the energy balance of the Català d'Energia Institute, since 2018, zero megawatts of new power in wind power, when we need five thousand by 2030. Or seventy-one megawatts in photovoltaics, when we need more than seven thousand by 2030. You say: "The climate emergence does not allow us to lose one more_second. Fets: 212 projects pending to process for the laying of renewables, which have reached a standstill of new_months. Or another fact: the last wind farm that went into operation in Catalonia has done so after six years of traffic. Result: by October 2021 projects for 14,400 megawatts of wind and photovoltaics were presented, very close to the 15,400 needed in 2030 in Catalonia, according to his data, of the Proencat, but it has not been very much processed. Counsel, can you tell us how many projects and how many megawatts you plan to authorize this government before 2022 is over? You say: "Biogas is a good example of circular economy. Facts: The Galera biogas plant, after two years of processing, still expects a last permit from its government. Counselor, hugged the fetuses. It is time to say that the energy transition is not measured with words or statements. It is measured with megawatts, objective and quantifiable. We're practically where we were a couple of years ago, and there can be no more geopolitics and environment. Act now, she'll advise. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.57.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Urban Agenda..., Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.58.0	Rural – rural. Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you said, we're from a couple of years old. Miri, in six months we have moved from sixty megawatts to public information to a thousand megawatts to public information; in six months – or less – we will already have public energy in process, and we are studying, as you know, the whole issue of hydroelectric power stations. But let's say one thing: what is essential is already a reformulation of the Spanish energy market. That's imperative. It's time to end the oligopoly... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, don't say: "Ah! Excuse me, let's just end the oligopoly now, end the benefits that are always for themselves. And who always pays, obviously, in this case, is the citizenry. And what do you do, what does the Spanish government do, what does it really have? So I'll make it clear: they don't do anything, some small makeup operation, some touch, but no agosarat. In fact, the minister spoke a few days ago of a possible gas price topall, and a few days ago she herself took steps back. Look, I'll make it very clear: what the State has to do is – already – fix the maximum price of gas, because that would obviously have important short-term effects. We also propose that the State assume control and management of hydroelectric power plants on an exceptional basis. This is a proposal we make to the state. Also the State created a foundation for direct aid to the most affected sectors, obviously, and the decoupling of electricity market gas. They're shutting down urgent measures, not makeup measures. You do not love each other, that we are concerned with the energy transition. I have already put forward three examples, three concrete examples; three concrete examples obviously listening to the territory and keeping it at the side. But now they're short-lived, and these can only be done by the state government. We're waiting for them. I hope – I hope – that they will follow. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.59.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on whether the Education Counsellor would continue to face the educational community. Ask the Government whether the Education Advisor will continue to face the educational community [[310-00236/13]] The question is posed by Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.60.0	Good morning, Counselor. How long will you continue to face the entire educational community?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.61.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.62.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, we only face people like you who want to destroy the Catalan school model. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.63.0	To answer that question, Mr. Acosta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.64.0	Mr. Gonzàlez, there is no worse deaf person than the one who does not want to hear. You have achieved a record worthy of the best world-wide plusmarquist of the plain hundred meters: in just ten months as a counselor you have achieved, you have won the angers of parents, students, teachers and educational centers. Come on, he didn't let a puppet with a head. It's just that there's no one, you can't find anyone who supports you, who applauds you minimally, except your enthusiastic party mates, of course. No wonder. You, rather than behaving like a high-minded politician for the sake of the common good, act like an incendiary ordinary Tertullian. Moreover, it is believed that it is above the law: it invites not to comply with court rulings that it does not like, such as that of twenty-five_per_cent of teaching Spanish in the classrooms. His inquisitorial style, caciquil, is not typical of a counselor. You are not conducting Education in an even way, contrasting opinions, but forcing you to advance the school course unilaterally, obviating, not taking into account what the School Board has told you in four reports: that it was advisable to discuss this issue, this matter, before making a final decision. It has also imposed a draft curriculum – disastrous – without consenting to the whole educational community. And, of course, logically, the teachers have called him an unprecedented strike for five days. You limit the freedom to choose school, since you do not plan school places because of the demand of families; you impose a partisan and tendentious sexual and affective education without the consent of the parents; you deny the freedom to choose a linguistic model; it fulmines the educational quality – I remind you that the rate, the rate of school failure in Catalonia is 14.8, higher than the average in Spain –; you drown in the concerted school; you limit the public; it discriminates against differentiated and special education. Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, for the sake of children, for the sake of education, for the sake of Catalonia, for the sake of his Government, resign once and for all. Do us a favor, resign now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.65.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.66.0	That you talk about dialog when in the model of Catalan school we have political, social and pedagogical consensus and you have to go to the courts to try to be right, seems a little out of place. Fortunately, you will not have any consent to destroy the Catalan school model, which is the only one that concerns you. I was talking about it before, we're talking about the fact, we're talking about what's really going on. And what's going on is that, with the educational community... we'll do it from educational centers and with educational centers. The goal of this government, the goal of this Department of Education, is to transform and improve the education system with fairness. And before that, I would give him some examples of the things that were going to pass the course and that hadn't happened until now. Before we spoke also of gratuity for the families of infantile 2. Also from a distribution... we create equity. They think we don't want segregated schools. And, therefore, another measure for the coming course is that we will make a..., for the first time we will accompany with economic resources to ensure a balanced distribution of the students in publicly funded centers, at the entrance of the system – to children 3 – and to ESO's first. With the language theme, you continue to invent a problem where it really doesn't exist or ever existed. And what we're going to do with the language issue is what we've always done: political consensus, social consensus and pedagogical consensus. And that's why the government started the public consultation yesterday in order to have a standard _framework that confirms to us the model of Catalan school and that legally protects the linguistic projects of our educational centers. As an institute teacher from the year..., I've been at different stages of the institute teacher, but 2011 was like an institute teacher, until 2015, and I've been spat out the details from the classroom. We understand the discomfort. We understand that we have a lot of ground to run and improve the Catalan education system, but they have to hear that this can't be done overnight. We need to start deploying better after each other. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.67.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the tax burden borne by families. [[Ask the Government about the tax burden on families]] [[310-00233/13]] The question is raised, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, by Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.68.0	Good morning, Counselor Giró. We admit that the economic leaders of the different governments in Spain are currently having a complicated situation, with a triggered inflation, with the effects of the invasion of Ukraine in terms of price and, above all, the aspect of the increase in the price of fuels. You have a responsibility..., not all of you, but you have a responsibility at the time to try to mitigate the effects of this crisis on Catalan families. Counselor, do you intend to take any steps to deal with the effects of this crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.69.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. We, Mr. Martín Blanco, will continue to work because Catalonia can dispose of an expropriated tax with which it now suffers and acquiesce in an appropriate tax with which we deserve. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.71.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.72.0	The truth, Counselor, is that your answer is very unsatisfactory, above all because it shows that you are a politician, with all respect, that you do not assume your responsibilities. You, as the government of the Generality, have a responsibility in the tax department that the Catalan families suffer. You talk a lot about tax policy and assign it to the Government of Spain. It's the opposite: if there are any politicians, it's what we kick the citizens of Catalonia for the action of the government's successors. The citizens of Catalonia are the Spanish that we pay the most taxes, with a lot of difference. We're the Spaniards who pay the most taxes. We are Spanish people who pay tax types – such as estates and donations or heritage transfers – higher than all of Spain. And that's not Madrid's responsibility, Counselor. I demand a policy for adults, a responsible policy, a mature policy, which assumes the responsibilities of each public administration. And you're not taking responsibility, when we ask you here in your Parliament for your decisions and the only thing they do is make Madrid responsible for everything. What currently passes to Catalonia, the fiscal hell that we kick the citizens to Catalonia, is not fundamentally Madrid's fault, but it is basically the Government of the Generality's fault. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, we, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, presented, last week, a proposal for law to deflate the IRPF. The deflation of the IRPF would normally imply an allowance for the burden on families, and you could add up. I propose that you join us, and we join in a decree that you should present the week you see – as long as they like to rule through the decrees... – a decree that eliminates all the taxes that the Generality has and lowers, goodies, inheritances and donations. Miri, Mr. Counselor, the Catalans will never cease to be Spanish, as I weigh them. Now, what we can do, or can do you, is that Catalans stop being the Spanish that we pay the most taxes. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.73.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.74.0	Thank you, President. First of all, Mr. Martín Blanco, I'll tell you... because I read again yesterday that we have a separate tax bill. It's fake, we've got good taxes. And I'm saying this because there's someone who insists a lot on this, and what counts are taxes that are cancelled by the Constitutional Court, that don't apply years ago, and some that haven't applied, like bankers, and yet they're still as much when they're making this criticism about tax hell. I'm surprised that you, like all the representatives of the Spanish right, always talk about fiscal hell and are not concerned about the tax haven in central Spain. I'm surprised, honestly. I have to tell you something, too. Miri, three months ago, only three months ago, this Parliament approved an accompanying law where there was a drop in income tax for the eighty percent of Catalans. We did this down in this Parliament three months ago, for the eighty percent of Catalans. And this councilman will continue to work, and all this government, to try to have this proper taxation that gave him and overcome the expropriated taxation that we're patenting with all that we've been patenting for many years. Miri, in the end, for many times I have given him, there are only two tax systems: one that invests in the territory where taxes are collected and another in which everything that is collected is confiscated. There are only these two systems, Mr. Martin Blanco. And what we have to do is work to achieve the country's full fiscal and political sovereignty. Thank you. [[In the public sector, a few people deploy posters. Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.75.0	Please, you must refrain from entering the hemisphere... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I invite you to remain in the area provided for by the public. [[Pause and remorse of the voice.]] Please. Please ask them to leave the hemisphere so that we can continue with the control session. [[Pause.]] I'm suspending the session for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.76.0	Let's resume the session. [[Ask the Government about the activity without environmental authorization of the company Lafarge Holcim in Montcada and Reixac]] [[310-00229/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the activity without environmental authorization of the company Lafarge Holcim in Montcada and Reixac. The question is put by Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.77.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, the Lafarge cement plant in Montcada, operates today without any environmental authority, and does so with the complicity of the Government of the Generality. A cement plant, located in an urban nucleus, that acts as a waste incinerator, putting at risk the salvation of the veins, that years ago they ask to intervene their department, but the Generalitat has years ago acting as the law firm of Lafarge. Every time that justice has declared the company's environmental authorization void, the Generality has given it an authorization to measure in order to fail to complete the sentences. To the point that today's judgment that all authorities are null and void and investigates the possible criminal responsibilities of the own Generality. And, to everyone's surprise, at the last Ple Councillor Torrent, his Government and his party, said that, despite not having environmental authority – and I quote textually –, the activity continues thanks to the administrative title he has attached. I ask you the following question: has your department enabled the company's continuity without environmental authorization? What opinion do you deserve, as the Climate Action Advisor, that there is a company that is operating without environmental authorization? And, above all, what is the plan of his council to complete the sentence? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.78.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.79.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman Iron, in fact, you talked about it, huh? It does... I would say that at the last session of control Councillor Torrent was also asked this question, and I say it again: the Government of the Generality has, as it cannot otherwise be, the firm commitment to resolve, obviously, this question. A question that's not from now on, but that, as you know, it's a question that goes from the moon. What we want, meaning doubt, is to find solutions; we must always find solutions. And also what we have to achieve is that there is no question of rights, neither labor rights nor environmental rights. This is the question, and in this we are concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.80.0	To answer that question, Mr. Lucas Ferro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.81.0	But today, she advises, they are already violating rights, like the right to the salvation of the veins of the Can Sant Joan's walls. And what we ask of him, as the Climate Action Advisor, is that I listen to Montcada's Assembly, I listen to the veins of Can Sant Joan's barrel, which has been complaining for years that his department will intervene. Two fundamental questions: full of legal triffijocs, do not continue playing with the right to the salvation of the lives of Montcada. And the second question: lead you, as the Climate Action Advisor, a just answer for the workers of the company and for the living. That's where his department has to be, and he doesn't make environmental authorizations to measure. Go to Montcada, gather together, the company's neighbors and workers, and lead a fair transition to keep the usual ones from paying for their government's broken meals. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.82.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.83.0	Mr. Iron, inbound, clear air, obviously, for everyone, how can it not be otherwise, huh? You know perfectly well that the environmental authority of the Lafarge establishment has been the object of various – many – administrative resources, and, in fact, there have also been various feelings. Now, I think that, in any case – and I want to make it clear – no of these feelings have been because they are drawn from an unworkable activity – that's so, no of these feelings – in that location or that you create some environmental problem. We have to say this loud and clear, because it's fair to say. Nor is it certain that the activity is developed without environmental authorization. That's not true. There is a first feeling, a first feeling that was firm, that of July 2020, where the Generalitat was obliged to close the activity of the company, but the own TSJ, in this case, conditioned the closure of the factory to the second feeling that it was firm. That was the condition the court put in. That is to say, the Generalitat, at these times, has absolutely no mandate to close the company, despite the fact that the Montcada Assembly asked the TSJ, in this case, the closure of the installation, which is certainly true. And, obviously, there's a second feeling that it's still not firm today. That is to say, in this case, Lafarge has a title that enables the exercise of his activity. In these moments a new authorization is in process, which, if I don't recall badly, is November 21. They're asking... we're also asking for reports to the different vectors that must inform about the outstanding request, between them the Montcada Assembly. And before this legal and administrative embolism, let's say that the government does what it does is to make sure that the activity doesn't create problems of salvation in the past, and that's it, it doesn't generate this problem. Until today, the company has passed all the environmental controls to which it is submissive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.84.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Midcat project. [[Ask the Government about the Midcat project]] [[310-00235/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Montserrat Vinyets, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.85.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. The Government has sent a document to the parliamentary groups with the title "The Government of the Generality's response to the impacts of the crisis in Ukraine, one has a distance in energy that says – I read it – textually: "The vertebration of a corridor of renewable gases mediating the expansion of the Midcat infrastructure, which should have a line of hydrogen. After Hard Rocks, expansions to the airport, Olympic Winter Games..., advise, now intend to dig up a project, as is the Midcat project, made from the espatxos of Madrid under the guardianship of Enagas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.86.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, advisor of Climate Action Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.87.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, in the first place, we've talked about this before, huh? ,emergency, at these times, energetic, is extremely difficult, and we need to reposition, as it cannot otherwise be, short-term actions, medium-term actions and long-term actions. Before this emergence we live, it is essential for us to fix a maximum topall to the gas price, because we think it is useful, but we also need to think about structural measures, huh? In this case, one of them could obviously be the Midcat, linked to a necessary energy transformation with renewables as protagonists. This is the situation today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.88.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.89.0	Look, counselor, what you can't do is talk about climate emergency and at the same time defend an infrastructure like the Midcat, and less justify doing this infrastructure based on the war in Ukraine. It is a project that in its moment, 2011, has already torn part of Vallès until arriving at Hostalric. He assumed a million dollars and ended up precisely for popular mobilization and because the European institutions themselves did not see it clearly. If 2011 was an unnecessary project, today it's an absolute demeanor, making a canon that goes from Hostalric to the Pyrenees. We need to abandon, please, the projects that promote fossil fuels, because they are a direct attack on the Paris agreements on climate change. The gas lobby, the Spanish government, Foment, have done very well their work, for which we see. When it was a project that was almost definitively buried precisely for this popular mobilization, it is now taking advantage of the situation of a catastrophe, a disaster, to put it back on the table. And this has a name, and it's called the doctrine of rock, and it's about taking advantage of concrete situations to put on the table unnecessary projects that only seek an objective: to attract public money – in this case, more than 3,000_million euros – in private hands. The project aims to encourage you to continue to consume fossil resources, and it is packed with a cosmetic operation – of which you mentioned earlier, make-up – with which you will also take advantage to carry green hydrogen. We're not going through this. The country, this country, has already suffered a project, the Castor project, by Florentino Pérez, which has cost us many millions. This time we won't let him do another thing of the same characteristic. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.90.0	To answer, you have the word Counselor Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.91.0	Member, you continue, as always, with the no, with the 'not at all. I didn't say yes to this; I said, "Yes, you do. And I'll tell him why: because we'll have to do something. In any case, we haven't talked about the measures before, I won't repeat them. And the Midcat's on the table, but it's on the table too to rethink it, in this case, huh? Being energetically sovereign, which we want and desire – I also hope that they will help us, because at the moment it is still no, no, no, no, no – I don't mean not to be connected to Europe. This is evidence. Miri, the Midcat can be a very important interconnection infrastructure with Europe and energy transition. And its supposed connection, obviously, the vertebration of a Mediterranean corridor of renewable gases. This is the situation. Moreover, I would assume a strategic infrastructure regarding the security of administration, which knows that this is not always assured. Now, the Midcat recovery is an absolutely conditioned yes. Conditional to what? Miri, from the outset, would not be useful if he did not link us to France – this, from the outset – and if there was no overall planning of the infrastructure, the French State would be locked in there. This is one. Second, it has to contemplate yes or yes a line of hydrogen, it is also important. And three, it's just felt – it's just felt – if it's part of a European Commission bet and it's also Europe that obviously finances it. We are aware that we need to move forward with the deployment of renewables, but at the moment, that I know, electrons don't want to. This is the situation, that electrons don't want to. And since they don't know how to fly, we need a well-connected country, and we need it on the web. I hope you are also part of the solution, because we are not in a normal situation, we are in an exceptional situation, and we are not always in the "not at all". Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.92.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's tax policy for self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises before the price escalation]] [[317-00129/13]] The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.93.0	Thank you, President. Will it lower or abolish autonomous competition taxes to relieve families, SMEs and self - employed people in the current price escalation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.94.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.95.0	Thank you very much, President. The Government of Catalonia is fond of the decisions taken by the European Commission and the European Council this week; it is also fond of the decisions taken by the Government of the State, which has, therefore, the regulatory capacity on the eighty-five percent of the entrances of the Government of Catalonia. And from here on out, we'll consider the decision-making process. But what we will need, above all, is to articulate a response from public finances, which will go on to increase the Generality's spending capacity at a time when tickets are also lost, the result of the economic and social impact of the war.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.96.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.97.0	Thank you, President. I asked you if you would lower taxes on families, self-employed and SMEs to ease the unbearable price escalation, and, as was expected, you have answered me with evasiveness and without assuming your responsibility. More taxes than ever at the worst possible time is their immoral recipe, which leads us to conclude that less evil than it does not have the competences of a state, because, seeing its populist tendencies, they would do what every populist does: increase inflation even further to end corralitos – we have dramatic precedents for these practices. You continue to be hostages of your revolutionary rhetoric allergic to reforms. Eighteen own taxes, have Catalonia – say what Mr Giró – ; the Community of Madrid, zero – eighteen to zero. The highest IRPF in Spain, Spain's most expensive inheritance tax. And, in the midst of rising fuel prices, the defachability of the CO2 tax, which does not punish those who pollute the most, but punishes those who have less and cannot afford the luxury of exquisiteness. They have decided to do nothing, and instead of reducing unserviceable public bodies, they create new agencies, new embassies, increase institutional propaganda. His Government lived in opulence, while drowning Catalans at taxes and taxes. They ask the Catalan families for an effort, but you are unable to tighten the belt as little as possible. I don't know what biblical curse the Catalans have had on us: to endure you and Pedro Sánchez at the same time is much more than we can bear. Stop playing cat and mouse with your fake dialogue tables and help people once and for all. People can't take it anymore, the situation is unsustainable. For our part, at least it is clear that there is another way to do things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.98.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.99.0	Thank you very much, President. In a context of economic growth, you have a proposal: to lower taxes; in a context of economic crisis provoked by the covid, you have a receipt, which is to lower taxes; in a context of social and economic crisis provoked by a war, the same receipt, to lower taxes. You don't care about them..., or what motivates them to lower taxes is neither the crisis situation nor the growth situation nor health emergencies. You always have the same receipt regardless of what you're going through, which is lowering taxes. Then, tell me, honourable Member, how we can finance the public services that you claim at each control session, if we give up public tickets and if you are against increasing the Generality's debt. They're math, Mr. Fernández. They're math. Because populism is thinking that you can give up tickets and increase expenses at a time without being in debt, that's populism. Therefore, you, who always have the same reception regardless of the symptoms that are passing, show that clearly you are guided by a clearly phonementalist position on this topic. So, what are we gonna do? Adapt the financial situation of the Generalitat at every concrete moment. It is obvious that now is not a time to increase fiscal pressure – it is obvious – but it is also as obvious as this that there will be an increase in public spending, that at a time of economic contraction we will have fewer tax-free tickets and that, therefore, we will need room for deficit, we will need room for debt, which you will not want. Therefore, Mr Fernández, I believe that populism finds you every morning when you look at the Mirall, in economic and fiscal matters. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.100.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether the Government will supplement the judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia which obliges twenty-five per cent of the classes of the educational centers in castle]] [[317-00133/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.101.0	Mr President, are you going to comply with the judgment which obliges you to include the minimum of twenty-five per cent of Spanish in teaching in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.102.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.103.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, as I have already returned to you other times, what we would do is defend the agreements of this Parliament, the model of Catalan school in this Parliament, approved for the laws..., for example, the law of education in Catalonia. And, in this sense, we have announced that we will make a standard declaration, in the form of a decree, from the language section to continue preserving a system that generates political consensus, educational consensus, pedagogical consensus and academic and social consensus. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.104.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.105.0	You, Mr Aragonès, have mounted in teaching for today a strike from above down. The demands of the entire educational community have been deliberately blurred. They have deliberately confused the whole educational community with their attitude of submission to the courts, and are trying to channel the discontent of the entire educational community, to which Mr Cambray has soliviated in record time. They mobilize their control tentacles and related unions to stage the support of the most ultra-nationalist sectors to the postulates of their government. And in the meantime, Mr Aragonès, your educational model has been fossilized, it has been left behind, it needs a complete refoundation. It needs trilingualism in Catalan, Spanish and English; outside the barracks at once; gratuity of teaching from zero to three; better training for teachers, initial and continuous; teacher training for teaching in English; cessation of ideological harassment at concerted school and special education; increase of FP positions; increase of scholarships and decrease of university fees. Leave yourself with victimism and smokescreens and carcase approaches. Make normal in the classrooms what is already in the street and what everyone asks for for the education of their children: a quality education. Work for Catalans to have a 21st century educational model at once. And I tell you one thing, President Aragonès: surely for that reform, of that entity, to seek that quality in Catalan education, Mr Cambray will not serve you. I'd almost advise you to look, compare and, if you find another better counselor, that's for sure, change it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.106.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.107.0	What the Catalan school needs is that, from political positions, it leaves all day to be involved in the teachers' pedagogical criteria. That's what the Catalan school needs. You're carrying it from your foundation. His founding goal as the political party has been to end the Catalan school model. And they won't get married. They won't get along, because there's a great deal of consensus before which is also the linguistic model of the Catalan school. And we will continue to work on this consensus and improve it in all that is possible, obviously – improving it in all that is possible. Of all the interventions you have made on the subject of education throughout the time that I have had the opportunity to listen to them in the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to say that more than one-eight percent have been on the situation of the language. On the situations or challenges that we have today, on how we face the inequality of opportunity, as we face school segregation, as we are the educational opportunities in the context of the territory independently of the economic conditions of families... you, of this, speak little. This is a government that is bringing about transformations in the educational sphere. And we want to do it with the most dialogue with the educational community. And this week we're in precise meetings this week's mobilisations wave committee last week. But what's important is to put the students at the center, put the students at the center of all decision, and always work because they get out of school with the maximum skills and the maximum number of students to fight against the social injustice that the education system reproduces, because it doesn't have enough resources, while we have increased the resources in the later years to 6,700_million euros in the conjunction of the Education Department's premise. The next course will be free of charge for I2. We'll do better in the field of school calendars and solve the doubts and the needs that you can provoke, because we're going to improve the education system and not try to divide the educational community by language, which is what you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.108.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the regions that will participate in the consultation on the Olympic Winter Games]] [[317-00131/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.109.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, I will be very concrete. Which countries will participate in the Olympic Winter Games consultation scheduled for this spring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.110.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.111.0	Thank you very much. So, following Parliament's mandate, there will be a consultation. The Government's proposal is to follow the six regions of the Old Pyrenees and Aran. The Parliament approved a motion to open a process to reach a consensus on how there can be three other regions. We're talking about who should be the role of these three other communities in the process of participating in the Winter Olympics.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.112.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.113.0	Thank you, President. Therefore, I am not concrete if they can vote for Berguedà, Solsonès and Ripollès. And that means that at this late vote, the vote on the decree amending the consultation law, the deputies and the deputies of this chamber will vote blindly, because we won't know about which territories you want to apply this law to. I don't know if you remember it – it looks like you did, because you said it yourself – that this very Parliament approved the following text for a large majority and with the votes of Esquerra Republicana: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government to agree with the districts of Bergedà, Solsonès and Ripollès on their incorporation into the participatory process. Yes, but also the popular consultation announced for the government this spring. So, we see that clearly. It's clear and Catalan. If the Solsonès, the Berguedà and the Ripollès want to vote, they must be able to vote, president. And you must fulfill this mandate to which you referred. And that's why I would also like to address Junts and the CUP, because you have openly said that you do want these three communities to participate in it, unlike the Republican Left, that we have listened to it say one thing and the counter. And what I'm saying is that we have a vote this late, and these hours are precious to try to clarify whether these three communities will be able to vote or not. Because for now what we are seeing is that once more, therefore, on this subject what we have is a certain gap: gap in the consultation, but also gap for lack of information around the Olympic Games; gap because there are more than two hundred scientists who are already saying that they are not sustainable, and gap because, if before I had no sense, this macroproject, now that the climate emergency is also added to the energy crisis, you still have less sense, president. So, it's a macroproject that I'm already telling them was born failed. And, finally, I think you need to reflect on how to govern and think about how you want to be remembered; if you want to be remembered as the government of failed macro-projects or if you want to be remembered as the government of the ecological transition and of the product model change that Catalonia needs. And that only depends on you and your actions. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.114.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.115.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, I have the impression that you do not care about the territories of the consultation... [[Some Members make some observations of dissent.]] You are simply against – and it is a legitimate position –..., you are against this project. [[Jessica Albiach Satorres intervenes without using the microphone.]] Also, he's already said it. And so, obviously, what they want is that this project doesn't pull forward, and they're relatively the same as the territories that participate in it. In any case, you said: this government, why should it be remembered? So he'll be remembered for a lot of things. We'll work so that all things are good. We'll defend this project. We think it's an important project. My question is: do you, in the governments in which you participate, condition the decisions of these governments with respect to participation in the Olympic Games? I'm saying because the state government is in favor of this project. If it's so bad, this project, how is it that you continue to the Government of the State, that gives enthusiastic support to this project? I'm asking. If this project is so painful, how is it that, at the institutional participation table, the Barcelona Assembly is present in this project? I'm asking. Therefore, it is probably more a party position than a position taken with responsibility. Our responsibility is to take advantage of the opportunities that, if they are consistent with the values we defend, they can assume for all the regions of Catalonia, also for the regions of the Pyrenees. I think we need to listen to the conjunction of Catalonia, as well as the regions of the Pyrenees. That's why we want to give you mainly to affected businesses, which your future can see 'improved with this proposal, that I am convinced that it improves, that it improves the current living conditions of the citizens of the Pyrenees. Therefore, we will continue to talk to the territories. Parliament asked us to work to reach a consensus; to reach a consensus, we must listen to different options and discuss them. At this point, it's what we're doing. And, obviously, I will make a decision as president, which is who it is if the decree reads late today, so, it is validated, on which will be the territorial scope of the consultation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.116.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the right of tenure and the demands and proposals of the education sector, the termination of the education councillor, the guarantee of the non-application of the sentence that forces the twenty-five percent of the classes to make in the castle, and the proposals girls to the education sector's vacancy committee]] [[317-00134/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.117.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr President, you said that you were the president of the four revolutions – the green revolution, the feminist revolution, the democracy and the social revolution – the president of the Olympic Winter Games, the Barcelona World or the Formula 1 always prepared to ally himself with his promoters, and who, in turn, gives the schematic to the educational community, to the educational wave and to his proposals to strengthen the Catalan public school. President, will you recognise the vacancy committee and its demands and proposals? Mr President, now that your advisor has demonstrated, after the first meeting, that he is unable to arrive at an agreement with the vagary committee – or, if not, if not above agreements on the basis of the proposals of the trade union charter in the next meeting that will take place tomorrow – is he willing to cease his education advisor or will he continue to profile himself? Mr. President, in addition to joining the school space in Catalan, will you ensure that the twenty-five percent sentence does not apply and will shield the immersion? Will you take responsibility for defending Catalan immersion at our school? And lastly, he commented that you are participating in meetings with the travel committee. Could you say who the proposals you have put on the table on this vacancy committee are? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.118.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.119.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, unfortunately, I will not have time to answer all the questions you have asked me. In any case, it respects last week's shift to Catalan schools, we respect the right to a shift from any work collection, it would just be missing. Secondly, we listen to proposals and demands. I think we need to differentiate some of the claims that refer to decisions made by this government, such as the progress of the school calendar. That's a good decision. It is a decision that makes it possible to have more fairness in the student group, because, at these times, students who cannot do extra-curricular and educational activities in the study have less educational quality than those who can do so. So, here we have to eliminate the differences by economic capacity of families. This is the reason for advancing the school calendar, which, of course, is advancing to most of the territories of the State... There is also a school calendar that begins before. So we can do it, too, and we can organize it. There is another series of demands that are part of the dynamics that come from years ago, from the time of the retails, that have begun to reverse and that the government is also compromised, to resolve in the measure of the presuppositional capacity that we have. And good shows in are the measures we have already taken until the moment: of staff increase, of reduction of rates to I3 in the next course or of changes in the replacement criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.120.0	To answer that question, Congresswoman Nogay Ndiaye has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.121.0	Well, Mr. President, you haven't answered one of the main questions. Are you willing to cease your education counselor in view that you have not reached a consensus with the travel committee or, if not, if not above a consensus in your own meeting that you will have somewhere tomorrow? And, for another band, the last question I asked you, if you know the requests of the travel committee. There is a brief summary: public education cent_per_cent, democratic, in catalá, inclusive; withdrawal of the new curriculum approved without any type of consensus with the educational community; public and quality FP; salary equalization between secondary and FP teaching staff; reversal of the details; suppression of the decree of plants and calendars; stability of the staff concerned and assumption of responsibilities in the defense of catalá to our... [[For technical reasons, the last words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.122.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.123.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of Parliament, I will not cease Councillor Cambray. Why, even in the last sentence you uttered, that it is "taking responsibility before the decision of the TSJ..., what did the Government of Catalonia answer when they said: "Who is responsible before this decision? Councilman Cambray. He took responsibility for it. Therefore, it will not be ceased. I'm keeping your trust. And I'm trusting you because you're also completing negotiations with the vagaries committee. There was a meeting of the travel committee. If for every meeting... this week there's been a meeting with the organizations. If we didn't agree to do this for every meeting, there would be no one left in this Parliament. So let's just let it work with the vacation committee. There are proposals that are fan that we are already applying. There are proposals that are reasonable and that we can make in the future, too. But above all, we put the student in the centre – we put the student in the centre. What it is to solve the challenges we face in the field of education, and, in this sense, the Government is fully committed to them. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.124.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the measures planned to put an end to the wave of robberies, murders and rapes]] [[317-00135/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.125.0	Mr Aragonès, and without precedent, I agree with Mrs Artadi and ask her the following question: will you do anything to end the wave of rapes, robberies and murders in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.126.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.127.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. This government is fully compromised with the security of the city. The first security that needs to be guaranteed is material and economic security. Then, too, the security you see questioned by structural elements of our society that need to change. If sexual assaults and rapes occur, it is also, because there are years of history of a patriarchate that conditions behavior, and it also needs to make structural changes in this sense. Therefore, the Government is fully committed to security. We have increased the number of Squad Mosso's effects, we have a horizon of 22,000 – it's a historical xifra. And we'll keep working because there's a police force, like, serving the people and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all the country's citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.128.0	To answer that question, Mr. Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.129.0	Mr. Aragonès, last week, just a few meters from here, on Barceloneta beach, a 20-year-old girl was attacked and raped by a Moroccan after trying to steal from him. Two weeks ago, two policemen arrested two Algerians while raping a girl on the way out of a nightclub. On 11 March, a Moroccan was also arrested for entering a nursery with a knife in his hand to try to kidnap two children. And so I could follow all of my intervention, reporting illegal immigrant crimes. This is the Catalonia that they are leaving us, the Catalonia in which every day we wake up we have a new news of rapes, thefts or murders. Catalonia in which to go out at night has become a real horror movie. This is your Catalonia, Mr Aragonès: the Catalonia of fear and insecurity. And it is no coincidence that separatism has less support than ever, because the sad reality of our land weighs on its shoulders, Mr Aragonès. The degradation of our neighbourhoods is becoming increasingly evident to Catalans, who demand once and for all a government that responds to their real daily problems and ceases once and for all to waste our resources on various chiringuitos, plugged in and embassies. The Catalans, Mr Aragonès, are tired of suffering the so-called effect that you promote and that has normalized a daily entrance of illegal immigrants who camp wide through our streets maintained by our resources and terrorizing our daughters. I mean, Mr Aragonès, put yourself to solutions. And from here I demand, once and for all, that you stop illegal immigration. And once and for all let Catalans regain the security and prosperity of their neighbourhoods, and once and for all they can look back to the future with hope. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.130.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.131.0	Thank you very much. I believe that with this intervention it has been shown that the extreme right does not care about the victims of crimes or the crimes, but the origin and nationality of the criminals. And so, when you focus more on the origin than on the fact or how to repair the victim, I think you favor a speech that seeks to divide our society. And they won't find us here. It will not find us, the extreme right, that uses, therefore, episodes of insecurity, that uses the ciphers on crimes always read partially, to try to build a report that serves them to curb the social cohesion of this country. You have devoted yourself, honourable Member, to under-reporting the nationality of the aggressors who have been detained or identified in the case of certain crimes. I am surprised to learn, for nationality, that there are automatically illegal and irregular nationalities – automatically. Certainly, if there is a situation of insecurity in some areas or at certain times, it is true, our girls can suffer, but also the children – the children too. It's a very masculinistic sight, the one to pretend that only women can be threatened by unsafe situations. In front of all this, what do we do? We reinforce the Squad Ways, attack the values that encourage certain criminal behaviors and continue to work to reduce inequalities and marginalization, which is one of the causes that also leads to crime, unfortunately, many people. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.132.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality whether the Government of the State is credible and reliable in resolving the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State]] [[317-00132/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.133.0	Thank you very much, President. President, members of the government, deputies and deputies... politics is credibility and trust. And the Spanish government has lost credibility and every day it deserves less confidence. In the last few days we have seen how the government of the PSOE and Podemos has made decisions that generate a hard precedent. In the international arena, the government has blown up Sahara's sovereignty and self-determination right. Nor did he have any way of contemplating the Sahrawi people, nor did he agree on a historical principle that the PSOE had always defended. Nor has their pulse trembled to fail the resolutions of the United Nations around the Sahara, a decision, in our view, totally erratic not only for the violation of the fundamental rights, but also for the consequences that it can have around the price and the increase in the price of energy. After the support of Pedro Sánchez al-Marroc, Algeria could make it pay by pushing the price of gas to the Spanish State. That is to say, the Spanish Government has not only made a step back in the promise to regulate the price of energy, but also that I can still manage to deal with it alone. It's worth it. While the European Union has reacted and different countries, states, Europeans have implemented urgent measures, the Spanish Government has nothing to do with it. And, as always, it goes late and poorly: many statements and few actions before a situation that seriously affects the people's butxaca and the viability of businesses in the country. As I said to the principle, politics is based on credibility and trust. And, as we can see, the Spanish government does not complete with its ideas, as we have proven with the Sahara, nor does it complete with its word, as we have seen with inaction around the price of energy. President, do you believe that a government with these credentials can be worthy of credibility and confidence to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.134.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.135.0	Thank you very much, President. I think that, in a situation like the present, of such complexity, we should make an effort to place each folder in the theme that corresponds to it. I think we should make an effort. Because politics is credibility, it's trust, and it's rigour, too, I think. Therefore, I answer the questions that you have raised. Regarding the first, the Government of Catalonia supports the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. It's what we've always defended. We are very concerned about the decision of the Spanish Government communicated to the Kingdom of Morocco, in terms of human rights and for what it means to respect the possibilities of complimenting the United Nations in the different resolutions on the future of Western Sahara for this issue. We are also concerned about the consequences from the geopolitical point of view, also from the point of view of the energy sub-administration..., all the consequences that it can have. And we are concerned that the President of the Spanish Government has not already attended the Congress of Deputies to explain the change of position that has occurred, and that it is maintained by the State since 1976. Therefore, we are concerned about this issue. With regard to the second point, we are obviously concerned that no measures are taken in the area of reducing energy prices, but we are also concerned about them. We are concerned that the Government of Catalonia has made proposals to the Government of the State to change this situation. It is important, therefore, to denounce it, but it is also important to interlocate everything in order to be able to do so, to propose measures as some of my governing colleagues have already advanced: the dismantling of the gas price of the electricity market, the acceleration of renewable projects, the study of the establishment of topalls as it was until 2021 in the regulation of the prices of the megawatt/hour... I also study it... and, therefore, it is possible to carry out actions on the taxes of hydrocarbons, which have the regulatory capacity of the State. So that's what we're proposing. In any case, do what the Government of the Spanish State does respect the price of energy or the position it has on other territories, I will participate in all spaces to defend the right to self-determination and amnesty. And I don't think I have the right to give up wearing the voice of a majority of this Parliament, which defends the right to self-determination and amnesty, all in all: in a negotiating table, in a bilateral, multilateral meeting..., where it is. It's all gone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.136.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.137.0	...self-determination and amnesty. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.138.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the measures envisaged to manage the consequences of the war in Ukraine]] [[317-00136/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.139.0	Thank you very much, President. President... I would like to begin, today, having a high record for Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Dolors Bassa, Raül Romeva and Carme Forcadell [[applause]] , because today just four years ago the repression was painfully effective with an unjust, cruel and vengeful prison, and especially for Marta Rovira, who today accumulates the fourth year in exile. The distance doesn't get dark, Marta, but it'll pass, and you'll come back, and we'll hug you free. [[Greetings.]] President, yes, I am asking the question. If war is an absolute barbarism, the humane consequences that lie across the border replicate the drama. The management of these consequences, as can be the forced flight of so many people, is a responsibility that we have; that we have and that we want to take, because Catalonia is and has always been a home country. In this sense, let us celebrate the meeting at which we were convened by some of the delegates, and let us celebrate that all of us are in front of the measures to address the humanities, social and economic derivatives of the war in Ukraine. Let's do it all. Fem-hi more. We don't spare anything, President. Here we are, because today they're like us today. We are condemning the aggression perpetrated by Putin's regime without any materials, and we have expressed our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. And we ask that the war be ended at once, this and all the wars. But, at the same time, we need to address not only the consequences, but also the causes that cause them, and, above all, the lives of resolution. How much war, that won't stop if we respond to it with more and more war. The answer is always in the compromise with human rights, with democracy, with non-discrimination, with peace and international law. You serve this intervention as a cry for peace and in defense of human rights. Catalunya, yes, it's a tough country. And we were – said before, too – a country of accompaniment. That's how he's proving it once more and day after the city of Catalonia. That is why it is important that the wave of solidarity of these days is institutionally coordinated at all levels. Whoever flees the war must find all the rights guaranteed in our home. And we appreciate that it's working in this line of government, that solidarity is staying... but for everyone, come from where to come. Let us rise from hypocrisy and, above all, racism. That this solidarity and this good institutional management served us as a guide to the future. For all intents and purposes, President, what measures will the Government develop to manage the consequences arising from the war in Ukraine? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.140.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.141.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, I agree with the need to remember what happened four years ago, the arrest of elected Members of this chamber, the arrest of a candidate for the presidency of the Generality in full investiture, and the exile of the esteemed Marta Rovira, who we hope will be able to return to freedom, because it will mean that the path of the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the State has begun. That it is not only a question of repression, but also that Catalonia can decide its future policy with full freedom. With regard to the situation of war in Ukraine and the consequences it has, we were able to hold a meeting with parliamentary groups in order to share the initiatives that the Government was bringing to an end. We are focused on the human sphere and the field of response to economic and social consequences. In the human sphere, at these times we have more than two-thousand citizens of Ukraine refugees who are either in the first-accelerated system articulated for the Red Cree State or also in the housings worked with the local administrations of Catalonia from the accelerants that the Generalitat has raised from the territory. About a thousand children and young Ukrainians from the war have been educated three weeks later in the Catalan education system. And, therefore, a thanks also to the conjunction of the educational community for the effort that this entails, especially to teachers and professionals. We will have to go through phase 1 – unfortunately, this conflict will go on for a long time. And when we do phase one, it will mean that we will also have to focus on responding to housing issues, on incorporating refugees and refugees into the labour market, they are aware that there are refugees from other conflicts that, perhaps not with intensity or in the number of displaced persons around us, not with proximity to Europe that Ukraine supposes..., but which we must also take into account, and which there must be no discrimination. With regard to economic and social measures, I will focus on energy: short- and medium- and long-term measures. The short-term measures fall within the remit of the European Commission and the Government of the State. I hope that this week, in the European Council, the decoupling of gas from the fixing of electricity prices will finally be approved. The measures at the same time, and at the same time... promote renewables; develop new sources of energy, such as green hydrogen. And this is the way we're going as the government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.142.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reasons for the non-renewal of the agreement between the Ramon Llull Institute and the Juníper Serra d'Etudes Catalans Chair at Stanford University]] [[317-00130/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.143.0	Madam President, Mr Aragonès, the world, our world, is changing. It's very fast, with a lot of changes. The different protests and demonstrations of these days, today, are a sign. It's time for clear ideas, to stay clear where we are, to know who our place is with Europe and NATO. It's time for consensus, agreement and useful policy; to put down a little all folds, and I'm not saying that for you. And it is a time of self-requirement, of being strict with ourselves, of demanding the best of ourselves, individually and collectively. Self-requirement also in the defense of our political personality, of our culture and of our language, the català, keeping it, of course, as the center of gravity of our educational system without attacking the castle, which is also our heritage, and giving compliment to judicial resolutions, as it cannot be in any other way. Defending the Catalan is promoting its knowledge and promoting its use here and there, within and outside Catalonia. That's why I was surprised, Mr. Aragonès, to know that the Ramon Llull Institute has not renewed the arrangement with the Juníper Serra Chair - Josep Pla of Stanford University, directed by Mr. Joan Ramon Resina. And, Mr. Aragones, I wanted to know who the reasons were for interrupting this fifteen-year collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.144.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.145.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Illa, I welcome your attitude and your proposal to the Government in a very difficult, very complicated situation, because of the social and economic consequences, not just those of today, but those that will be in the future, because the whole geopolitical scenario is changing. That said, I go to the specific question you asked me. The Ramon Llull Institute, in solitary, because many times we have not had the support of the Cervantes Institute, has completed the establishment of various chairs in different international universities for the promotion of Catalan studies. We have to bring to an end all the readers, too, of català in universities. We have to do this from the Ramon Llull Institute because from the State it is not ugly, as it is, so, for example, for the promotion of the Spanish language. For what it does in the concrete case of this chair, there was a proposal for renewal which, for reasons above all in the administrative field, as it could fit, could not be renewed, but our intention is that this and other instruments in the external field, so they can continue. So, if you, in addition, also help us to have the Government of the State, then, facilitate what is the explanation to the outside of the Catalan language, surely we will find many more instruments to do so. I insist, it was a question of the formula of the agreement, of the administrative characteristics, but our intention is to continue with what this chair represented in this format or in another one in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.146.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.147.0	Mr. Aragonès, I don't want to make a category anecdote. I understand you're correcting and celebrating, and I hope you're keeping the five chairs that, if I'm not wrong, have the Ramon Llull Institute, and the 131 readers, right? And also that is done in the forty-six centers where the Cervantes Institute has imparted the català, teaching of what they have not enjoyed, if we do not fail the ciphers, almost four_ thousand people in the thirty years later. That's the path. Because the time has come to work folds, coordinates, without avoiding problems, facing problems – I must say – in the line of the meeting that you convened a few past meetings, which seemed to me to be well thought out and well focused. I demand self-requirement in the background and in the form. I see – today itself, at the control session – sometimes, on the part of some spokespersons, a lot of strength and clarity in what others have to decide and a lot of discussion in what is our responsibility. Miri, I think Catalonia can do better. I think your government can do better. My job is to encourage his government to do better, but it also helps you to do better. And you know that in complicated times, I can count on my group to improve things in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.148.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.149.0	Thank you very much, President. In the current situation there will be no place for partyisms, or as at least I will leave no place for partyisms. We are in a very serious situation and what we see in our own time will be very complicated and will force us to make sacrifices, and we will need political agreements. That's why I called the meeting with the parliamentary groups in the past. You, who think I'm getting to know, know that self-requirement is a phone book for me. For many reasons, but among other reasons, why I want Catalonia to be an independent state – also this government –..., a government that wants its country to be an independent state to assume full responsibility, even though it is not its competence. I welcome its level of demand with what is the government's commitment to Catalan language. We are also doing this in the area of the loss of the Spanish economy, because it is also the economy of the languages of the State and we can include the català in a sensitive area such as the audiovisual field. Did we do it together? Yeah? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.150.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next item on the order of the day, the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to report on the changes in the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra and in the General Commission of Criminal Investigation. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the changes in the summit of the Squadron Mosses and in the General Commission for Criminal Investigation]] [[350-00007/13]] In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and as the House approved the appearance of the President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès and Mr Garcia continue to have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.151.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Vice President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, Lords and Lords, very good day. I compare to the request for this chamber to explain the changes in the commanding rooms of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and, in concrete terms, of the General Commission for Criminal Investigation, some changes that respond solely and exclusively to the will to continue to empower and improve the police of Catalonia, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. A few changes that respond to the will to move this police thing forward and ensure that it offers the citizenry the best security. And this is our obligation: to seek to offer the best to the citizenry, to work for its welfare and for its security. And from this point of view, with Councillor Elena, and in a collegiate manner with the Government, it was decided to push a few changes in the direction of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. I'm here today, and my parliamentary group and the parliamentary groups that support the government also gave support to the appearance, because we have no problem explaining to each other. And I want to think that, on the basis of this petition for appearance to inform about the renewal of the dome of the Mossos, there is no question in any case the power of the Councillor of Interior – and, therefore, the power of the Government – to be able to make the changes that we consider necessary to offer a better service to the citizenry. I want to understand that the groups present question the legitimacy and authority of the Councillor of Interior to propose the renewal of those responsible for directing the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, as it has not been questioned in previous legislatures, that there have also been changes. If it were not so, what scope would we be giving to the Councillor or Councillor of the Interior, if we asked him the ability to choose, as all departments do, the people who, under his criteria, are the most suitable to exercise the responsibilities? The Interior Advisor and the department are required to produce results. It is one of the departments that, for the nature of its competitions, it is one of those that has the highest focus, the highest demand, because it works with a foundational value of any democratic political system, which is that the police have the power to use legitimate force in a democracy. And, therefore, how the police exercise the use of force and is the only one who exercises it legitimately in a democracy, to do it well and to do it for the sake of rights and freedoms. And that's why the Department of the Interior has traditionally always been a department where there has been a lot of demand and – I believe, and I can assure you, with this advisor – self-demand, too. It is the adviser who assumes uncertainties and errors, many times, of decisions that are operational and that are not of a political nature. Therefore, the most logical thing is that who assumes the responsibilities has the ability to introduce the changes you consider necessary to exercise them as close as possible. I can understand that there are groups that do not share these decisions, that do not share these changes, that have different points of view; in fact, it is natural, it would just be missing. The discrepancy is healthy, it is positive; in fact, it is the basis of the parliamentary system. I can also hear that there is who is asking these changes if you think they are not suitable, if they are not necessary, if it is not the right time, even if they are short. I can understand that the political objectives of the Council are also being debated. But what I can't accept, what I can't hear, what I think is not a waste, is to feel that, with the changes, degradations, purges, cleansings have occurred... that we have carried our body. Even some people have said that changes are a product of revenge. They are qualifications of all misfortunes, that do not do well to our police and that only obey the political pim-pam-pum and the will to wear out the good work of the Councillor d'Interior. These accusations do not seek to strengthen the police of Catalonia. They are partisan accusations, and they try to barricade, from my point of view in an absolutely immoral way, the compromise of the struggle against corruption that this government has. And these words that question this toughness and try to link the fight against corruption trying to laminate, as if there was no firm compromise, not only from the government, but from the conjunction of the public servers that form part of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra..., these interventions of this type only put more pressure on a cos, questioning the ability and professionalism of some of its members. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, like the advanced society that we are, like the democratic society, as I said, has all the confidence of the President of the Generality, all the trust of the Government, all the trust, obviously, of the Department of Interior, because they work rape to rape. And that trust has, on the other side of the coin, also all our self-requirement, the self-requirement that the person has in order to do things always good and always make them better. Therefore, the injured for the type of qualifications that have felt in this chamber – of purge, of cleansing – is not the advice of the Interior, it is the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. All those who have had responsibilities in the Department of the Interior – and some are Members of this House – know perfectly well the professionalism of the body – of all its members and their commands – the difficulty of managing security and public order and the importance of counting on the trust of the citizenry. And that's why I think you're afraid to attack the police in Catalonia with unfounded and profoundly unjust accusations. When there are changes in the Department of Interior, many times there are also changes in the Prefecture of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. They are normal, absolutely normal; as normal as the different stuffings that has occurred in the length of the body's history. For example, the replete that there was-there 2013 of the commissioner in chief, Josep Milan, to situate-there-the-ara major Trapero. The changes to the Prefecture of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the renewal of the commandments respond to the advisor's willingness and also to my opening a new stage necessary to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. A stage looked at with 2030 time, which has to be used to make a police more like the citizenry, more social, more like the people; more feminized, too, that assembles to the society to which it serves and protects; more diverse, more innovative, and also with generational replete. Only the changes due to the new prefecture have assumed that in the sphere of the summit of the Mosso de Esquadra has passed from an eleven_per_cent to a twenty-i-five_per_cent of women's commands, and a significant recognizance that was needed. And this is positive, it's very positive, and it's the way forward for the body joint. In the investment debates I said that this government didn't just come to manage – managing is essential – that we came to transform. And this transformative will above also to security policies, giving it a new impulse and opening up a new stage that must continue to improve a thing that is already in many respects a police body of reference, with social recognition to Catalonia and also international. In these first months of government, the Interior Councillorship has sunk many diverse files that we carry many years working. And when we say we defend the body... it means some of these threads. For example, starting with the expansion of the Mossos d'Esquadra staff floor to 22,006 officers; beginning with the agreement that has allowed the early retirement of the body, an agreement that is now celebrated by everyone, that we already know that victories always have pairs and seas and that I demand it, but I must say that up at a certain point, thanks to certain negotiating capacities, thanks also to certain commitments. In the next few years, we will have to incorporate between seven and eight thousand new agents into the Squadron's Cos de Mossos. It's a very important challenge, but we'll do it and we'll do it right. And, besides, it's a necessary challenge: if this weren't the case, the body would be engaged in a difficult crisis that had conditioned the country's security. Without the compromise and the willingness to incorporate seven to eight thousand new agents into the next few years and without the agreement on early retirement..., that it was a decision of the State that had not occurred and that occurs when there is Councillor Elena in front of the Interior, also on the basis of negotiation and with a lot of effort, that prevents us from finding ourselves in a situation where the agents who are in the second activity are so large that they make the activity inoperative. In these months, we have also advanced a lot in the feminization of the Squad's Cross, which is necessary, because a police cos is to be assembled to the society that protects and serves: feminization and increase of the diversity of origins, birthplaces, languages. And, therefore, the reservation of forty per cent seats for women in the calls for access to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is a good decision. Or the approval of the plan of equality to the Cos de Mossos with a great consensus – he almost signed all the unions of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In the same way, with the assumptions of 2022 we arrive at an unprecedented level of reversal: it allows us to reverse the shortcuts and equip the body with the necessary means and resources. Sometimes, when I feel certain skirmishes about the decisions of the Interior Department in this Parliament, we seem to have forgotten that for seven years– seven years– there was not a single agent in the body– for seven years there was not a single agent in the body. And it's been the past few years – now Councillor Elena, but also the two previous Councillors – when there has begun to be an increase in effect. For seven years there was no new agent. That does condition security. And this decision – like the victories, which they have father and mother – also bears responsibility: those who limited the repositioning fees, those who refused to reach agreements at the Catalan Security Board in order to allow this renewal. So let's find everything, too. I think it's time to put it all together. And, to end with examples of the Government's willingness to enhance the body, I would like to highlight some measures aimed at applying maximum transparency and democratic quality in the body, especially in those areas of action that are often the most questioned but also the most delicate. I'm convinced..., we're convinced that the majority..., and practically always, perform with all professionalism. And when there's a mistake, it's the proper agents who bring it in. For example, initiations such as the introduction of the new identification number in the ARRO agents or the change of legal criteria to preserve the exercise of phonental rights at the same time that guarantees the security of the citizenry. These are some examples of fetal work. They are examples of the direction that we are printing to the Squad's Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of the need to continue pushing these changes, because, for this new stage, it needs a new direction with strength and renewed energies. This is why it is important to note that these changes have not been made overnight, they are not improvisation, they are not a ramp; they are meditationed changes, the result of an analysis and diagnostic process. They have called on us, this analysis and this diagnostic, to take decisions before the nine opportunities that are held in the body, opportunities that will serve for the conjunction of the city of Catalonia. As I said, we want a police force that assembles more to the society that is to be used and protected, that will be used to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, especially the most vulnerable. That's what the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Ours is a model, the current model also of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which faces challenges that each time are more important, such as, for example, the whole field of cybercrime. It's a police thing that's a thing for the citizenry and that we'll work because it's still more. That's why we want a more intense relationship with local police and with the local authorities' joint, too, that makes the community more clean. A more intense community task, with the impulse, for example, of the commissariats of proximity, bringing the Mossos to the barrel, which must allow us to be more present at the conjunction of the society to which we live, especially of the most vulnerable people. All these objectives, all these challenges justify the opportuneness of the changes to the dome of the Squad Coast. We lead for a new stage, recognize the good work done until now. New leadership, with all thanks to the work done and the compromise of the former dome, starting with Major Trapero. We want, therefore, a modern and advanced police thing; a thing that is clean, a reflection of society and that is obviously moving, with all the democratic demand – all, absolutely all of it – with all the transparency in the actions and also with the maximum compromise against corruption. That's why I've had a hard time trying to generate a speech as if the Squad Squad Squad Squad was permeable to some supposed intentions of avoiding investigations into corruption. It's neither now nor before, nor will it be in the future. And neither will it be, because, at the very moment, neither this government nor the councillor will interfere with actions in the fight against corruption. I'd just miss it! I'd just miss it! Insinuating this, from my point of view, is immoral. And if not, let's go over the story. The commitment of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra against corruption is unequivocal. Doubt is an unfounded attack. To block criticism of the replenishment of the Mossos, a legitimate criticism: about the opportunity, about whether there were other options... But to sweep this with the compromise of the fight against corruption, I think it is immoral. Who investigated the Mercuri case? Who investigated the Pallerols case? The Inipro case? The three-per-cent plot? The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Where were the colors of people linked to this case? In some cases, leaders of the governments of certain moments. And they stopped investigating? No, no, Therefore, maximum respect for the compromise against the corruption of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. All these cases are proven cases of corruption that have brought great debates in this Parliament. And in these, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has participated in research, and in many of the cases leading the investigations. Mercuri case, Pretòria case, Inipro case, Pallerols case, Palau case. In all of them, the Squad Coast has participated and fought corruption, tomorrow. And if they do it at that time, they'll do it now, too. And now, I assure you, we have all the compromise to strengthen the independence of the actions of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad in all these senses. So don't let them put us in this bag. Not all of us here are using the police for political ends, as we have seen from a previous Minister of the Interior of the Spanish Government, who has been conducting political intoxication operations on the country, using the Spanish police. [[Greetings.]] We're not all like that. And I can say that we are completely compromised in the fight against corruption. So, no one is worried, or rather, someone has to worry. Those who do not do things well will have to worry; those who abuse their place of power will have to worry; those who put their hands to the box, who are concerned; those who with their criminal actions put in doubt the group of public institutions, which is concerned. But he's worried not about what the President of the Generality can say, but because the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra will further strengthen the anti-corruption structure that has allowed us to discover so many pieces of corruption with excellent work. The Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad They'll still shield the performance protocols. Corruption is one of the main evils of democracy. We must be absolutely intolerant and scrupulously intolerant to corruption. Therefore, accusations as we have heard, which determine decisions of replenishment that have occurred with each Councillor of the Interior, are now an attempt to undermine, to undermine what is the compromise against the corruption of the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra, I believe are unjust, unfounded and reprobable attacks; they do not do well to the cos and they do not do well to the democratic system. With the appointment of Commissioner Josep Maria Estela as head of the Cos de Mossos, with the new prefecture, an organizational restructuring that affected thirty-one commandments – thirty-one took place in the end. Among these thirty-one commands in which there was replete, in which it was restructured the dome, there was also the one who was responsible for the Commissioner General of Criminal Investigation, Agent Antonio Rodríguez. I say his name because he came out here in Parliament. It was working. He was in charge for a few months – not for many years, for a few months – because there were three changes in one year in front of this area – three changes. Suspiciously, it is only the later that generates an attack in this Parliament, and it is asked that I come and go, because there is no problem in explaining it. There was this replete in the march of these thirty-one, and Ramón Chacón, a police officer who is absolutely professional, neutral, committed, like all the agents of the Squadron's Cos de Mossos, and specialized in the fight against corruption, and who occupied the second place; after, therefore, the responsible Rodriguez. Intendant Rodriguez has done a lot of good work during the months that he has occupied the cargo in an interim way, and a job that he will continue to do with the new destination and all that he has in the future, where he will bring his experience, essential in all the responsibilities he has held in the length of his compromise with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. We are convinced that with more of them, with more resources, with more instruments, but above all with the stability that it gives a full responsibility with full functions, not in an interim manner, with this stability, the intendant Chacón will continue to make the Mossos d'Esquadra an authentic scourge against corruption, always working with total independence and professionalism. This government is completely compromised in the fight against corruption. A government that also has the will to strengthen even more the democratic character of our police. And this, reinforcing the democratic character of our police, is all the contrary to wanting to have a political police, who came to say in this chamber, or to have units in the police with the law to invent reports to destroy political dissent, as has happened and is being judged in other police bodies with the endorsement of certain ex-government ministers of the State. That's not going to happen to the Squad Coast, because it's a good thing, because it's a thing that acts independently, with its criteria, and because it has the full support of the government, my president, and obviously the Councillor of the Interior. In short, this new stage at the Squadron Mosses is much more than just a few relays to the command structure. The 2030 horitzó de Mossos 2030 passes to make a police officer closer, more social, feminized and with an innovative look. A thing that has priority to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens, especially of people in a vulnerable situation, and a thing that needs to be done from the closeness with people. And that's why I want to finish my intervention by publicly conveying my thanks to the dome of the former prefecture of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for his pocket, and also publicly conveying my support to the new commissioner in chief, Josep Maria Estela, who, together with the Chief Rosa Bosch, Commissioner Eduard Sallent and Inspector Montse Escudé, have the task of making a joint lead in this new stage at the head of the Police Prefecture. I wish them luck and uncertainty. And this support I want to extend to all the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad You've done a hard job, you've done a complex job. This work can only be done from a compromise and a vocation of absolute service. We all have friends in our circle, family members who are connected to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And these friends tell me about the feeling your family has every day when they put on uniforms and leave home and they're going to work. And they know it's a job they might have to face risk situations. So we have to give them all the support. These risk situations that they will face, that confront agents every morning when they leave the house or when they leave the police station's locker room, when they change and have the uniform, they do so to defend the rights and freedom of the citizenry, they also do so to, when necessary, act with the only ones who can execute the force in a democracy in a legitimate way, which is the police in application of the laws that we have endowed ourselves with. And, therefore, I must give it all the support. They are the first to have self-requirement, but they are the first to deserve, I think, that they are not the object of a political pim-pam-pum. We won't be involved. I am convinced that the two-thousand agents of the Squad Coast have an absolute commitment to the fight against corruption, absolute and immune to any kind of political pressure. And, besides, this political pressure, while I am President of the Generality, will not be there. We'll put all the tools in there so it'll never be there. Thank you very much. Thank you to all of you. Very good morning to everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.152.0	Once the President's speech is over, we suspend the session for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.153.0	Let's resume the session. And, in the first place, has the words of Mr. Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.154.0	Madam President, Mr Aragonès, Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, I take the word on behalf of the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar, on the occasion of the appearance of Mr Aragonès, at the request of the Group d'En Comú Podem, on the changes to the summit of the Mossos d'Esquadra and to the General Commission for Criminal Investigation. And I do it, first of all, because I think it's customary for the presidents of parliamentary groups to intervene when the president of the Generality does it. Sounds good to me, I do it with a lot of taste and I think it's the right one. But I do it too, and above all I do it – and I don't think it's too bad, Mr. Aragonès – because of the material for which you appear here today: the changes at the top of the Squad Mosses and at the General Commission for Criminal Investigation. This is a very serious issue, affecting one of the main competencies of the Government of the Generality. We're very concerned, I think, about the citizenry too, what it's done and how it's done. I'll explain. I will sum up in five points the performance of your government, in these nearly de_mesos, for what it does to the direction of the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. First... five points, five theses that explain, to our mind, his performance. First, first thesis: the parties that support the Government have placed the Mossos in the political arena, converting them into a currency of change for the partisan agreements. The Mossos have been a currency of change since the first moment of the present legislature, in the mark of the accord that they have subscribed Republican Left..., or that they have subscribed Republican Left and the CUP, to facilitate their investiture. An agreement through which the CUP marks the government's path in police matters. So the Home Counselor is tied up with hands: he has as his full path to this agreement and he has to fill it out wire per turn, and in faith that he doesn't step away from a_millimeter. According to the thesis, according to the point: this political partisan beasts has derived in a rosary of decisions that have led, in our opinion, to the affluence of the Cos of the Mossos d'Esquadra, undermining the authority of our police. Six examples: the withdrawal of the defences of the agents who have seen their public actions prosecuted in public order – example number u–; the non-interposition of particular charges by the Government against the authors of the Aldaruls, when they so request to Mossos – example number 2 –; the removal of a whole unit, of escorts, of the Police Prefecture, to put them under the direct dependence of the political sphere, the Director General of the Police – example number three –; the removal of the entire police model in conjunction with a unit, of escorts, of the Police Prefecture, in order to place them under the direct dependence of the political sphere, the Director General of the Police – example three –; the question of the police model in conjunction with the creation of a parliamentary committee for the good police task, such as the General Information Commissioner – for example, in our opinion, to carry out political control, an obsession that has ended the task of the police model in conjunction with the creation of a parliamentary committee — for example — for example — for example — for example — for example — for example — for example — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for — for Third thesis, third point: the common denominator of all these changes is the government's mistrust of the Squadron Mosses, an aspect that contrasts with the high level of valorization that makes Catalonia's citizenry of its police. The Government's gaze on the Mosses is based on mistrust and mistrust. The reported facts show that for the government the Mossos are under permanent suspension. The result of this suspicious look at the Mossos is a police officer abandoned to his fate. A question that contrasts with the high appreciation that citizenship makes: the late CEO gives a middle note to the Mossos of 6.74; the women, a 7.13; the men, a 6.52; and by political parties, everyone approves the police, some of them with a 7.35, as is the case with those who identify themselves as members or voters of my political formation. The Mossos deserve trust and approval, with high marks, on the part of the citizens of Catalonia, but incomprehensiblely, from our point of view, they regain the government's mistrust. I've got point number four. It is in this context that I have told you in which to place the changes at the top of the Mosses, of which you are the last responsible. Some changes that have not been explained possibly because they are inexplicable. That is why we have spoken and will continue to speak – with all due respect I say – of purging. No one, no one, denies the right to hold the head of the Mosses – no one. Nor to make adjustments to the command box that they think are convenient. It's not that – it's not that –, Mr Aragonès, which we're questioning. Allow me at this point to express my personal recognition and gratitude, and also my entire parliamentary group, Major Josep Lluís Trapero, for having commanded the Squadre Mosso Cossos with professionalism and uncertainty at times of extreme complexity and sensitivity. What we're asking is that you've made thirty-six changes. When a 30-year-old changes from an attack, what's happening – it's hard not to see it that way, from our point of view – it's to give a warning; a warning to make it very clear where things are going, where the wind is blowing, right? Thirty-six changes that when we analyze them, at least in our opinion, do not respond to the criteria of rejuvenation that have been explained, or of feminization, or of gifts for the leadership that have been expressed, in this case, for the Councillor Elena. It is revealing that the first change announced for Commissioner Estela, new head of the Mossos and person who deserves us, certainly, all our respect and consideration, and to whom we recognize a long career path and the ability to command... I say that the first change announced is precisely that of the most responsible of the General Information Commissioner, the intendant Antoni Rodríguez, who has conducted politically sensitive investigations with diligence. How do you want us not to talk about purging, Mr. President? How do we interpret it to be sent to the police station of Rubí if it is not removed from its functions, that you yourself said that they were copies or that they worked well? How do you want us not to talk about purging, if they told us that they were carrying the intendant Antonio Rodriguez because he was not quite right in the command of his team and then we knew that he deserved the highest value in this ability on the part of his superiors? What has happened is that you have moved to the top of the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squad. Five-and-a-last thesis. The inadequacy of the explanations, first of all of Councillor Elena and, he said, with all due respect, also those given today, Mr Aragonès, you, are calling on us to maintain the proposal of a commission of inquiry. From the Socialist Group Unites per Avança we asked for his explanations because the Councillor Elena did not seem enough to us, they seemed insufficient to us and they seemed unsatisfactory to us. But also because you're the most responsible for the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And in fact, it hurts us to find that neither their explanations today have brought light to an episode of unexplained and possibly unexplainable changes. It is for this reason that we will keep alive the petition for the creation of a commission of inquiry that brings light on this unfortunate episode, the light that neither the counselor nor you have been able or willing to bring. And we have to do this because of political responsibility and for the sake of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad We regret to note, once again, that the government, with its deliberate action on the question of the Mossos, has been the main problem for the Cos of the Mossos d'Esquadra. The balance of his performance I've done at these five points is bad. Very painful. That's not right. As I've tried to describe, there are different focus and management issues, all of them hard. I want to focus now on one of them, no less. I refer to the fact that it is the policy of the CUP with a counselor who is not of the CUP. I have all the respect, both respect and discrepancy for the Members of the CUP. That's democracy, isn't it? Respect and disagree. Also for Mr. Elena, for Councillor Elena. You make a change, you verify, I finish with the policy of making you see, the name of Consellera d'Interior Mrs. Dolors Sabaté. Let's go all the way to the clear. It's nothing that's Mr. Elena – it's nothing. Increase the government with a councillor, appoint the councillor of Cooperation. He'll do you a favor. [[relays]] - He'll do them a favor. He will do you a favor, because from the affection and high personal consideration that I have him is uncomfortable, he is bound by hands, doing a policy that you do not believe. I'm noticing. He'll do you a favor and we'll go all out. I don't know if we're doing any better, I'm sure we're not. And in any case, we're all going to be clear. Now I could stop here, I could finish my intervention here, doing a part of the job that I have to do, which is to control the government's action. I think our focus is built and, therefore, I hope that we take seriously the warnings we make in this chapter. But I'm gonna go over there, I want to make him a proposal, I want to make him an offer. I want to ask you that in security matters we don't make any more inventions. I want to ask you to change five things – five. First, let us return to the policy of trust towards the Mossos d'Esquadra. Secondly, the policy of respect for the democratic authority of law enforcement officials. Third, to provide them with the means and resources they need. Fourth, to further increase coordination with all bodies and security forces, as well as with local police. And five, to promote agents in a matter necessarily hierarchical, for the principle of merit, for the principle of merit. If he does this, he has our support, he doesn't have to suffer. He will hold the presidency of the Generality. I guarantee you support. He's asking me to rectify this, and he'll have us at his side. I do not know whether you will respond or not; I can understand that you have little to say, but I think, Mr President, that you have much to think about. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.155.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.156.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, we can finally see each other face to face, can't we? , which avoids permanently in the control sessions. Don't doubt I'll take the opportunity to tell you the truths you don't agree to seeing me from my seat. The grave situation in which you have put the Mossos d'Esquadra shows, once again, your inability to lead any government. We are facing a new movement of separatism to control each and every institution in Catalonia at the cost of the efficiency of a public service and the security of all Catalans. It is not a pimpampum, Mr Aragonès, it is the dismissal of Mr Antoni Rodríguez. And you know perfectly well that it was aimed at controlling the unit of investigation and trying to deactivate, in this way, each and every research that investigates the corruption of governments and separatist mayors, which in many cases have been enriched at the expense of all Catalans. You spoke, even came to catalog immoral statements that you already understood that we were going to make some. The only immoral thing is his behavior and how he has played to remove and put his associates in the bodies and security forces operating in Catalonia, in this case in the Mossos d'Esquadra. You have transferred your partisan struggle to the institutions once again, and you condemn, once again, the instability of the police force responsible for ensuring the safety of all Catalans. It condemns once again the stability of our region. No police force, Mr Aragonès, has been subjected to a similar process, six interior advisers in just seven years and five chiefs of the Mossos d'Esquadra in four years. And everything perfectly supervised, approved with the stamp of its members of the CUP. And although you have wanted to present yourself here as an outside actor on this issue, saying that it is an internal issue of the Home Office, the reality, Mr Aragonès, and that does not escape anyone, is that you have made the decisions aimed at ensuring a certain solidity in your Government and among your partners in order to try to reduce the tensions between you and others within your Government. But that, and as a good lie, will eventually see the light. Therefore, I will not waste much more time on showing how you have done the best you know how to do, doing the best you know how to do separatism, which is to turn yourself into a real mafia and instrumentalize the police forces. [[Some applause.]] I'm going to tell you what the arrival of you to the Government of the Generalitat has meant. And the truth is that things have only gotten worse in Catalonia since you sat on that chair. Never before has a government created so many problems, Mr Aragonès. Never has an executive had so few solutions, so many wrong recipes to deal with the most serious problems affecting the Catalans as a whole. You, Mr Aragonès, are co-responsible, not to say directly responsible, with a perfectly planned strategy of invigorating and harming the middle and popular classes at the hand of Mr Pedro Sánchez. Because all you want is to destroy, even though you come out here and say it with great words, you want to destroy the middle and popular classes, because so you can continue to manipulate and direct the future of Catalans. We, since the election campaign, have said this on numerous occasions and have denounced the growing crisis of insecurity we had in Catalonia. And you, far from putting the means to solve it, first of all you were talking about fools permanently, "VOX's are crazy. Then, when they were already assuming and were aware of the threats facing the current Catalans, they intended to silence us. Now you've changed your strategy and you're constantly insulting us by calling us racists, aren't you? , when we denounce each and every one of the criminal acts and acts that Catalans suffer in the streets. But you keep an accomplice silence of everything Catalans are suffering in their neighborhoods. I could be listing..., and this morning I gave you some brushstroke from those isolated cases, from the blameless episodes, right? , Mr Aragonès, and the reality of our neighborhoods, but – I told you so too – I would be running out of time. I would be constantly recounting the criminal events that are taking place in our streets and how you are helping to destroy coexistence and security in our neighborhoods. Instead of giving the necessary means to the Mossos d'Esquadra to guarantee order and law in the streets, you prefer to profile yourself. Instead of giving the necessary tools to the bodies and security forces operating in Catalonia, you prefer to be weak with criminals. You prefer to be hard on Catalans and weak on criminals. You prefer to be tough to impose those multicultural societies and be weak to give the necessary tools to the Mossos d'Esquadra so that they can put an end to the catastrophic consequences of their policies. You prefer to be hard at favoring the implementation of Islamism and weak to give the instruments to the Mossos d'Esquadra to fight and avoid new attacks in Catalonia. You prefer to be tough to encourage illegal and weak immigration with the Mossos d'Esquadra to control security in neighborhoods and imprison criminals. That is their policy regarding the Mossos d'Esquadra: tough with the commanders, but weak with the masters who tell him to change positions and intermediate positions in the security forces and bodies operating in Catalonia, in this case, of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And it's not just a matter of security what you're doing with the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr. Aragonès. You, as I said, despise them – despise them. And you've come out here great, supporting the Mossos d'Esquadra; but no, tell them what they're fighting on the street with the criminals every day. Because you, as, for example, increase political spending by 70_and_four_per_cent for government delegations abroad– EUR 12_million to sponsor and spread their lies –, you abandon and leave the troops without the necessary material to guarantee law and order on the streets. But, Mr. Aragonès, you could be here, as I told you, many minutes talking. You know that the thing does not end here, because, among other things, there would be ninety-thousand reasons to evict this government, such as the ninety-thousand euros that you recently and every week seem to approve a new office in a new delegation of the Government of the Generalitat. But, look, I told you, you prefer to be hard on the innocent and weak on the violent. This is one of the most serious situations in which Catalonia is passing and which will undoubtedly worsen in the coming months and years of following you in the government, of being members of separatist parties in the government and of having Mr. Illa's priceless crutch, which is permanently offered to you in order to carry out your policies that are free and contrary to the well-being and prosperity of all Catalans. A dramatic situation that you are leading and that you are suffering especially from the middle and popular classes that you claim to be so defending. A popular middle classes who took the worst of the economic crisis of 2018, who suffered the most serious consequences of the separatist coup of 2017, to whom then..., you did not hesitate to use those who should be guaranteeing law and order on the streets to carry out their spurious interests. But the middle and popular classes, Mr Aragonès, are determined to write the future of our land, and that is why we are going to defend those, them and those who have to guarantee their well-being and prosperity. That is why today, Catalonia, once again, is faced with a great choice. Before a government that does not hesitate to manipulate and play with the Mossos d'Esquadra, in this case, with the forces of law and order, it is a time to tell Catalans that they are facing a great election. Choosing or security in neighbourhoods for families and giving what the Mossos d'Esquadra need, or criminals, which is what you want, camping wide down our streets. Catalans are at a time to choose or prosperity for the workers and stand by the forces and security forces, or be with you and encourage fiscal expoliation to finance separatism, climate religion, or your gender delusions. We are at a time when Catalans have to choose between social aid and decent public services – including the Mossos d'Esquadra – or allocate millions to foreign embassies paid with our taxes. Or freedom in the classrooms of our children and support the bodies and security forces, or political activists turned into teachers in the classrooms. Either the defense of the middle and popular classes – including the Mossos d'Esquadra – or the obscene enrichment of those elites to which you belong and who live behind the back of the real problems of Catalans. Stop destroying everything that has cost us so much to build. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.157.0	Subsequently, he has the word in the name of the candidacy of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.158.0	Well, thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, president, councillor. It looks like maybe today came out a little bit more than that, but we're still getting used to talking about who. We have already, on repeated occasions, said that we were very interested in who, who was very interested in who was at the front of the commandments, and that, above all, what we wanted and what we thought was to talk about was what. Today, since the PSC, they've already started explaining what and why, haven't they? And then I'll come in a little bit. But in any case, it seems that they were not so against who or what changes had been made or how, but that they had begun to transpute and come out which are the security policies that they want to apply the PSC, or that they would apply the PSC. And how, when they do not apply the policies they want, both in the area of security and in many others, they have no problem in doing, as they have done so many times, in allying themselves with the right, with the extreme right, and with the extreme right, to question and try to stop any change. Speaking of what, and going back there – and we have said it on repeated occasions and we will say it those times that you need – from the principles of our legislature to the need to stop the bleeding, to make an immediate shock in the transformations and in the field of the transformations into security, as a model of security. We have clearly said this: to halt the militarization of police bodies, to stop the use of tools such as the smoke or the deployment of Taser guns, to stop the accusations against demonstrators, to stop the application of the law bites, to put up impunity and ill practices in police bodies, and to put up the beatings for reasons of ethnic profile and, therefore, the racial beatings, and the collaboration of the Mossos d'Esquadra in these beatings, in which at the end people in an irregular administrative situation were sent to ICES. Then the government said, "We're holding the CIES, but now he was – and I think he's still working on it – in these beatings. In any case, and allow me to give you a parenthesis, the result of an intervention that seemed to us to have been completely unopened from before. It's that who flirts with criminalizing people in an irregular administrative situation, who flirts in magnifying insecurity problems to get a few votes, probably won't get a chance, but what they end up getting is to get the applause of the extreme right, and that's what seems to us absolutely out of place. [[Greetings.]] I'm on it. Beyond these haemorrhages, beyond this immediate stage, in the march of this" than we think we should be talking about, I also believe that we have a horizon in which to advance in this" what, that is to put the community, to put the people in the center, in the grip of security policies, of a security that went much further than police policies, and that above all went to lay the civil rights, the political rights, and the material rights to the head and the center of the objects. And this means that some of the police units, that of the security units, cannot work together to increase inequalities or to bring about even more injustices, and especially in two areas, in the field of mobilization and in the field of waves, as has sometimes happened, working together to prevent production, and to work together in business squirolating processes, or in the field of housing rights. This is a question of changing the security model and the police model. Also do not cooperate, therefore, in these denunciations. And here, as long as we have time, I wanted to put up with a little. We have already said on various occasions that for us it is fundamental that with the limits of the law we remain aware that we will not be able to put up with the denunciations, that in the Spanish state, that in the current constitution, we will not be able to put up with the denunciations, and that, therefore, we must go further. And going beyond that means applying questions that we've already applied before, that we've already applied October 1, 17. We are talking about the doctrine of '1 October of the col·legis, or the doctrine of Trapero. Apply it to the denunciations. So let's stop those police actions that can produce major evils, such as, for example, leaving minors in the street, much so that there is a court order that I say so. Because this court order, as we've seen many times, ends up violating your own law. We now have a law passed in Parliament that prevents the denunciations of vulnerable families without negotiation and without a social logger, and they continue to be produced. There is now a moratorium that prevents the denouncements of large owners against vulnerable families and continues to be produced. Do we obey court orders even when we vaggle against the law? Because even when the laws are favorable, they apply, it seems to me. And, therefore, the law most interested in defending certain powers applies. To us, this seems like a key question that goes with what. As we say before, if what is needed to advance in all these questions, if the government wants to advance in all these areas, it will have the support of the UPC. If the one who serves because he keeps going through things like this, he won't, they'll find us on the front. And he also wanted to take advantage of it to highlight other issues that also seem to us to be of use. This is what must be used to restructure, to give it its turn, like a mitjó, to the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. It's not all right at the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Mr President, we cannot say like all agents, "professional like all agents; that is not true – that is not true. There are agents who are not professional. There are agents who have been arrested for corruption. There are agents who have been blamed for bad practices; there are bad practices. When we talk about all agents having good performances and good practices, it's absolutely losing credibility. And we don't think there's any favors either to the citizenry or to the people. For this reason, we think that an absolute restructuring of the body needs to be done. It has to go forward in transparency and taxation, and this must not be the exception, but the rule. Because in the last years in the Interior, in many areas, there has been the exception and not the norm. Therefore, transparency and taxation as received. We believe that it must be advanced and deepened in control mechanisms, in the creation of these control mechanisms, that for us it is a key proposal that can be taken forward during this legislature, that it is an independent, public control mechanism that allows taxation and that allows, if it can, to sanction concrete police actions; that it can act as officers, that it can act through complaints and that it can not only act before concrete practices of agents, but can also tax actions, protocols and even more general structural actions or orders of the Squad Coast. For us, this is a matter of substance. And another... – excuse me –, which has also been discussed before and talked about: the question of investigative and information commissioners. There can't be a black hole in this environment, there can't be a lack of absolute political control over what's going on in this environment. Because then we end up finding things that we have already denounced on various occasions, which is that there are agents of the Squad Movements who do not know that if by orders, if only, or because there is a structure and a political will to do so, they end up investigating parties that we are here in Parliament, or they end up falsifying electronic mails of parties that we are here in Parliament, or they end up sending mails asking for information to unions, youth organizations or other collectivities. And that's what happened, that's under judicial complaint, and that's why there's an open dispatcher from the Interior Department. So, here's a drill. And we have a hole in the investigation and we have a hole in the information, and we have to give an answer. And the political priorities of investigation and information must also be set. If political priorities are to put a stop to dissent and to put a stop to mobilization and social protest, it is different that if they are to fight ideological crimes, to fight masculinism, to respond to inequalities or to fight economic crimes, because resources are limited and what is meant is that it is a decision and a political will. Another issue that seems important to me: when you change, when you keep the same, your partners are one and they have them there, they are the PSC members. And they've said a lot of times that they're partners in a change of heart; we say it's a change of heart. And what we see is that when they go with them and with them it's very clear which policies they carry out, that they are changing them..., that they change them, that they are still the same, because this is their price. Surely, it is not a concrete or tangible price, but it is a very clear price in the focus of government policies. And we see that much more beyond the realm of security. That's right, when they make changes, they have them on their foreheads, they have them on their foreheads and they have allies, no problem, with the right, with the extreme right and with Spanishism, which is what seems to be happening in certain areas of security. Therefore, our proposal is clear: do not get complicated with the CUP, CUP CUP, CUP CUP, CUP CUP. The CUP is here to transform, to transform foundations, to advance in all those questions in which we committed ourselves to the principle of the legislature, which is to advance in a time of self-determination, to advance in a guarantee of material rights and to bring forward, in this legislature, a change and a transformation that for the moment, in terms of concrete areas, we see has not occurred. In any case, here they are to transform, here they are to denounce when they are not transformed and, obviously, here they are to plant face to face that they do not want anything changed and that they make offers that seem to be a change of heart, but that they are a change of heart that is still the same and, therefore, very badly. Thank you very much and we'll follow. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.159.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.160.0	Thank you, President. I wanted to start with two guesses. One day I told the Lord He said it was hard to make opposition sometimes when the opposition made it to you from his own government, didn't it? I say, because today we have seen a criticism of the advisor's security policies formulated to a question from Mrs. Elsa Artadi, which was an indirect question to you, applauded and congratulated for the extreme right, too. I suppose it's a problem to answer Javier Negre, but it's not a problem that I applaud VOX on your security policies. So this would be the first thing I wanted to do. And the second thing I wanted to do, and the president said, and I agree – I agree – cannot confuse the criticism, in this case, to the political leaders of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra with the criticism, in this case, to the political decisions it takes, right? It cannot be confused with its highest political leaders. And I think that's a good thing to say. And, moreover, in our case, I think it is clear; that is to say, we have always defended that the Squadron Mosses are the integral police of Catalonia and, therefore, must continue to feel that way. And we don't care if we're going to keep feeling that way. And the president set concrete examples. I also want to remember: it was the Mossos d'Esquadra that entered the Palau de la Música. And, therefore, I think this is important to situate it. Now things have happened too, and it's also normal for there to be mistrust. And I read it literally: "Yesterday when I spoke to Councilman Buch and I got public and private support shows told me that I was a police officer, that I wasn't being investigated by the Squad Mosos. This is the literal words of the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, with whom the Councillor of Interior informed him that I was not being investigated. Therefore, there may be mistrust there, because this has also happened. That is to say, he passed to Palau de la Música, all the situations you were in have passed; but that also happened. And, therefore, it's normal for the opposition to have mistrust, right? And we, when we asked for his appearance, were placed an element that was phonemental, or one of the first elements was: who had made the decision, right? , who had the decision of the changes. And it was said, the new advisor Elena moved to his appearance that he had consulted with you. You also said in the past that you had co-legitimized them with the government's conjunction – I thought you heard it, didn't you? Anyway. I'd say he said yes, huh? But in any case, it can be referred to later. I think it's a phonetic element, because, look – and I said it too –: Republican Left and Together for Catalonia is all – all – all – and all for the fly's sake – all. I won't be the one to teach you about the difficulties of coalition governments, but I think you guys are gonna get over all the red lines, huh? But, well, anyway... then I'll come back. Then I'll come back, because... well, I'll come back. But in any case, I think it's obvious that you disagree at all. All right, that's it, isn't it? ...,that's to say,they disagreed on numerous cases. They left Councilman Cambray... the most of them, in Cambray, alone in Cambray, because they left him alone in the stairway, because Mr. Argimon supposes he didn't..., they didn't have time to warn him and that the photo..., didn't they? With the theme of the wave, today there are no vintages. But in any case, they argue for everything, but that's why, no. There was silence in this. There was no kind of discussion. And I think what ended up going through is that it's an agreement – and I said it – that it's: Left Republican didn't want Traper in front of the Squad and Together for Catalonia didn't want the head of investigation in front of the head of the Investigation Brigade, and that's what ended up going through. And we insisted that, well, that we thought that this was the agreement that there was from the table. And it didn't seem to us that, well, that the new Republican Generality that you located, therefore, apart from whom, well, we understood that we had done a good job in front of the investigative commissioner, as you said, didn't we? I, miri, told you I'd be back by now. I have the feeling that these days, that you've talked a lot about James Bond's movies, right? So they took over a James Bond movie attack, which always has an anecdote, which is that every time someone came to the head of MI5 wanted to take out James Bond. And I think the thing that happens in this country is that every time a new counselor comes up, he wants a head of the Mosses that's closer to him. Why? So, we're five years old that the person who capped the Mosses at the beginning of the year didn't finish it – he didn't finish it. And you said yourself that the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Well, it's a lot of work, isn't it? And you said something that you're right – and I agree –: the government has right to make these changes. This we – and I also said to the audience – did not question at the moment. I mean, the government, legitimately, has right to make these changes. The problem is how and why. Because, of course, it is said: "We have no problem explaining ourselves. Home, three months ago, huh? , there was-there was the switch to the dome of Mossos d'Esquadra. We asked for the Councillor's appearance on 21 December; until one month later he did not appear in Parliament to give explanations. Counselor Elena always says his own petition. Well, that's previa, isn't it? I mean, it's a good situation, I've seen the attendance log, so say, we gave him a little hint to see if he could make a match. And anyway, you gave explanations... that's to say, it's a government that's in a hurry to make the announcements and very little to give the explanations; so, in general, not just on this subject, and then I'll explain it. And, therefore, a long time to give an answer. In addition, I insist on this: you, five years in a row, when the head of the Mosses doesn't finish the year. You will tell me: "This is usual. Home, I don't know. Now that we're also talking about Mrs. Artadi... Miri, when Mayor Colau arrived at Barcelona City Hall, one of the first decisions he took was to keep the head of the Urban Guard that Mr. Trias had. This was one of the decisions he made. You can also have it by this decision. Let's give ourselves a time, that Mr. Trapero, that I know..., right? You were very happy with Mr. Trapero. So, I think this was a decision you could make. And then, when I say how, too, I don't know if it's done what it was supposed to do. I have the feeling that Mr. Trapero has degraded it. I explained it the other day. I mean, I could have prepared the change. I understand that it's not simple, that it's certainly not a good dish for anyone, but it could have been connected where Mr. Trapero was going. Perhaps the place where it is located provisionally was not the most adient. So, well, I think that also, at least, we could discuss whether the way it was done was the best possible way. And then, finally, why, too, right? I said who – who had made the decision –, how and why. And to us what is not clear to us..., or so, the changes, obviously, you can decide them, but to us we are particularly concerned about the decision, in this case, on the Commissioner General of Criminal Investigation. Because it is not only true that, well, that there has been only this change, it is that the number two, which went with the commissioner, has folded, and has folded with disagreements... Yes, yes, he resigned, his number two has resigned..., or at least he has been published; if you tell me that no... has been published, yes, yes, yes: « Cessation, accompanied by the resignation of his number two in the fight against corruption. Well, so, so, they'll explain it to me. Listen, I told you the other day, and they didn't deny me. If they want to deny me today, then they'll deny me. But, in any case, also, more than that, sent to Rubí's police station, which, well, if it's not a degradation, there's a lot going on. So let's say the jump is quantum, huh? Or, in the end, a person who... because, more than that, you say... also, some of the arguments that have been used, or, as the press has at least explained, it is that the leadership and the ability to work as a team were questioned. Then, with the internal scores of the body, it turns out that he was one of the most valued commissioners for his company and company. So there's not much to explain what the motive is, beyond the changes they want to make. And then, too, when it comes to the model change... I, who do not share..., or we share in good measure also many of the proposals made by parliamentary groups – the UPC – about the need for the model change... Miri, the model change..., we do not see that the relays have produced a change in the policies of security in Catalonia. In fact, the proof, in this case, the protocol that you present this week to the meetings on the charges. In the denunciations, you do not question in any case that Brimo is still sent to the denunciations. So, there's no real model change on security policies, or at the moment we don't see it; so..., or at least on protocols, right? And finally, let's end this: we think it's more of a show, don't we? , this way of doing, of a government that does more politics of pharystoll and of pressing wheels than a government that is able to dialogue, weave agreements, to negotiate, to do things in another way, in short, because we understand that this is not just a drop of water from the ocean, but that it has been produced repeatedly. It was produced, for example, also, in this case, by the education council and it was produced in a way and with a tarann on the part of the government that we do not share. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.161.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.162.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you have also appeared here today at the request of Ciutadans, to explain the true causes of these cessations, of this purge. You have been hurt by the talk of degradation, purges, depurations and revenge, but unfortunately we have to talk in these terms when you break into the police dome, because there are various indications that we are talking about degradation, purges, depurations and revenge. You have claimed your Government's commitment to the fight against corruption and, in the end, you have done something that I believe is ugly too, which has been shielded or protected behind the honorability of the Mossos d'Esquadra, which no one absolutely questions. Because what we are talking about is precisely your political decisions, the decision of you, as the most responsible of the police, acting by delegation as the Home Secretary acts, and the decisions that affect precisely the work and functioning of this police force, which, of course, has our full support. Look, and, yes, there are things that smell bad in your performances and in these debuggings. And I want to refer, therefore, basically, very briefly, to Mr Trapero. Mr. Trapero, what happened to him? Which is the largest of the Mossos, which is the one with the most rank, but yet is condemned to ostracism in an office of the Mossos in the Corts. Why? Well, surely because they did not like the statements he made in his defense at the trial to which he was subjected by sedition; statements that greatly annoyed the separatist domes that carried out the coup to democracy. And then there is the matter of the Mayor Rodriguez, this person who was carrying out precisely the investigations of corruption, precisely that affected, moreover, and affected the president of this Parliament. I was the person in charge of the unit who was to investigate these facts, which, as has been recalled here, there was even the cambalache between Mrs. Laura Borràs when she was a counselor and Mr. Buch when she was a counselor, of: "Hey, is this true that I am being investigated? Well, the person who was responsible for conducting this investigation has also been discontinued. And so thirty-six more people. It is, therefore, Mr Aragonès, so, because of these and other issues I will be going to tell you, it does not seem to us that you have credibility in the explanations you have given us today. His Government was a government of continuity. You have already stated that your intention is to subvert democratic order from the position of force that gives you control over public money and administrative power structures. And all you have to do is make a little history of what you have tried since you embarked on madness, in September and October 2017, to subvert the constitutional order. At that time, he wanted to put the Mosses at the service of the separatist cause, trying not to respect the instructions of the judiciary. Then Torra came to the presidency of the Generalitat and we saw how the legitimacy of action was questioned in the framework of the democratic order of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And in the last months of Mr. Torra's term, it was seen how the Mossos became a currency of exchange with the anti-systems. And, in that sense, the relief of Councillor Buch by Sàmper gave way to the reshuffle of the revision of the police model, which is nothing other than the disarmament of the Mossos in the field of public order, which is to which the Government of the Generalitat committed itself with the preferred partners of the far left. So the real political will for the Mossos d'Esquadra expressed by the successive governments of the Generalitat, also by yours, Mr Aragonès, when closing the agreement with the CUP, is that of controlling politically the Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And for that they have set up here precisely a review committee of the police model to change the taste of the CUP. Look, another way to influence politically on the Mossos d'Esquadra, to neutralize them, as you do, for example, from the advice on the issue of, for example, that Mr Elena said, not to apply the current law of citizen security. Or another example of public order and everyday life: the theme of the Meridiana. In the Meridiana, an ex-terrorist, his friend, today a professional agitator, telling the Mossos that they don't care about the sanctions because Mrs Borràs takes them away. Mrs Borràs' emails are still going to come out indicating to Mr Bentanachs how to get the fines removed in Catalonia from the process. It is evident that the Generalitat has been hiding the interventions of the Mossos in the Meridiana for two years. It is clear that there has been favouritism in letting about twenty well-stocked caradures with process money to annoy them by cutting off traffic to all the neighbors of the Meridiana, to the merchants, to a whole neighborhood. When they have been forced to show up without cutting off traffic, they also continue to challenge, with the Speaker of the Parliament at their head, and they provoke cuts in the indignation of the neighbors, who have been enduring them for two years. Look, it's easy to identify those responsible, open the files, and punish them. But it turns out that then, in the Home Office, the files die, disappear, they don't find each other, they never come to a good end. The Mossos, when they go to that neighborhood – I've seen it –... they want to be the police of all, and in front of the neighbors you become the police of a few, of your own, of your police. That must be over. Finally, that you use as an instrument to control the Mossos politically the reliefs of the highest police officials. They also give orders to favor and not disturb theirs and neutralize the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra from the Interior Council. But they also use another mechanism, to which I would like to refer before concluding, which is the internal selection and promotion procedure for access to the executive scales of inspectors and superiors of stewards and commissioners. These selection procedures lack objectivity and transparency. And we do not say it; all the union organizations in the body are saying it: the fact that you in the promotion of these scales always try to influence to get political control of the police. You do that, and logically the good cops, the generality of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the vast majority of the Mossos, therefore, hurt that in the promotion he counts both the black hand of the Government and denounce this lack of objectivity and transparency. In conclusion, President Aragonès, thank you for your explanations, but we felt that the arguments are inconsistent – those that have used both the Interior Counsellor and you today – to justify your purge. And there are enough precedents, enough evidence... Some member of the opposition groups, Mr. Illa himself, has quickly listed several to which I have referred, but he has also given six points; six points that make us all suspect that you really persist in this old longing that has characterized the separatist governments since 2012, of tying very short to the Mossos d'Esquadra and employing them as a party police, at their service and at the service of the process. That is why his explanations have not seemed credible to us at all. I will end up asking you to do Catalonia a favor, to respect the enormous professionalism of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra, to respect their work, to take care of them, not to use them as a currency of political change with their anti-system partners. And do not compromise us with internal purges that seek to control politically and neutralize those when your work according to the laws is a nuisance to you. Therefore we will keep alive the request of the commission of inquiry on the purge of the Mossos, significantly on those who were investigating the corruption of separatist leaders. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.163.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.164.0	Thank you very much, President. A decade later we can conclude, without any doubt, that the capacity to destroy the separatist process knows no limits. It has affected even you yourselves. Everyone is, a priori, suspected of botiflers, traitors. Mistrust and suspicion even preside over their relations. Such is the power of destruction of what they began. But that's the least of it. That doesn't stop being problems you have between you, and we all have our own. Each one has his or her own. What really is serious is what affects everyone: the degradation of the prestige of Catalan institutions, the massive flight of companies or the breakdown of democratic coexistence between Catalans and, among Catalans, a part of Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. In such an environment it was evident that an institution like the Mossos d'Esquadra could not go unpunished in its self-destructive madness. Catalonia has remained and has become the land where no good action remains unpunished. And if the Mossos d'Esquadra do their job well and investigate corruption, they become immediately suspect and debugged. To one of the organizations best valued by the Catalans as a whole – it has been said before – according to all the surveys, including the CEO, Puigdemont placed it at the limit of illegality; Quim Torra assumed the discourse of the CUP and accused them of fascists and torturers, accepting that delusional rhetoric according to which if a protestor throws a dowry at a mosso this must return him two kisses and wild flowers. If all this is not enough, you, Mr Aragonès, preside over a government that has dismissed the mossos responsible for the exemplary pursuit of corruption in Catalonia, not Madrid, Valencia or Andalusia. You, who are so independent, love to talk about others. No, no, We are talking about corruption here, that of Catalonia, which affects you and which you do not like to talk about. Shame on you, who prayed the song, Mr Aragonès ; shame, shame, shame. On January 10, last January 10, 2022, the relief of thirty-one members of the summit of the Mosses responsible for investigating corruption in Catalonia was announced. It was you who, in his investiture, insisted on two concepts – two –: transparency and exemplaryness. And he has betrayed both, and he has also turned his intervention into a paradigmatic example of that of the non-petita excuse, manifest accusation. It's been said here before. The lady..., the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Laura Borràs, acknowledged in the parliamentary seat that Miquel Buch had blown her – as if from a vulgar double agent of the strip of Mortadelo and Filemón were involved – that she was being investigated or not, because it was never too clear that end. With your decision, Mr Aragonès, you become a political cover-up of such a hunk, dismissing those who were investigating you and politically covering up and protecting the one who is alleged to be a criminal. You, Mr Aragonès, are the most responsible; neither the transparency nor the exemplaryness you promised. His Government was already carrying the stain of shame, and that was irreversible. And no matter how much you try to hide behind former PP ministers – who have noses that you just resort to that – that's not going to relieve you of your responsibilities, which are yours, personal and non-transferable. But it is clear that being the most responsible, as President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, your advisor Joan Ignasi Elena has participated decisively in this shame, and does not stay behind. First, by mixing in his statements the substitutions, the dismissals, with a false varnish of feminism. It is particularly indecent to try to cover up something so dirty with the recourse of feminism, and today, unfortunately, Mr Aragonès has again fallen into the same argument. Secondly, humiliating the Mossos d'Esquadra, giving the CUP the presidency of the Commission for the Study of the Police Model. Yes, to the UPC, those who call "fascists and torturers" excellent professionals who guarantee our security, that is, our freedom. Mr Elena, you have become another paradigmatic example of a different conduct, which is..., I define it, "the perversity of velvet. Your predecessor, Mr. Buch, was more clumsy than you, and I'm afraid something else, so it's coming out in the investigations, but it wasn't a cursi; to him, at least, you saw it coming. You are, in that sense, more sibilian; you dedicate understanding, softness and meekness to the suspects of crime, and severity, hardness and even cruelty to those who pursue and do their work properly. Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Elena, it has to be exactly the opposite: the severity, with the alleged criminals, and even more with the criminals; and the hand stretched out, the pretty. words and floral games, with the Mosses, which, I insist, even endanger their own physical integrity to defend our freedoms. Mr Aragonès and Mr Elena, I would like to say that I hope you will pass canutas, and it is not that I am particularly excited, by definition; but you will pass canutas, in the committee of inquiry into this matter. I must also tell you that you will have earned it at your own pace. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.165.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.166.0	Very good morning to all of you. Many honourable President, many honourable President, Vice President, members of the Government, Councillor d'Interior, deputies and deputies, first of all, Together for Catalonia we want to express our support and trust to the dissot_ thousand agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for their professionalism, which they demonstrate day by day; for their willingness to serve the public, which they demonstrate daily, and to protect our rights and freedoms with their work. Because a country that does not guarantee the rights and freedoms of its citizens is neither a just country nor a democratic country. For this reason, we want to reiterate already the entry, so let me be clear, our respect for the decisions taken by Councillor Elena and, consequently, for the President of the Generality, who have full power to make the changes that are considered appropriate, in order to successfully face the current challenges in police matters. I repeat, because I have made it clear: all the democratic respect that gives the legitimacy of this Parliament to the decisions taken by Councillor Elena, in the framework of her own competitions, as it cannot be in any other way and as the same Councillor has recognized here in her Parliament, around the decisions taken. Because all Interior Councillors have made decisions around the summit of the Squad Mossos, up to and including PSC Councillors, such as Ms. Tura, and up to and including Initiative Councillors, such as Mr. Cid's party, Mr. Saura. Tanmateix, from Junts per Catalunya, will take advantage of this appearance to make clear some basic, essential premises that must govern, we believe, to our own mind, as the fundamental values on the management of the Squadron Mosses and the public security policies of the Government of Catalonia. In the first place, and because I also made myself very clear, Together for Catalonia in case we do politics with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. We won't play to throw the cos out of the squadron's moss for the head, nor to a pem-pam-pum barat. For different reasons: the first is because we value our body, because we respect it, because we know and are aware of the ingenious effort that has been made for many years to have a Catalan national police, to have a police of reference and quality as is the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. And I'm not saying that because it was a mayor of Valls who founded the squadron moss many years ago. [[relays]] , but I also say this out of own experience, because, like the mayor, one of the first actions was to see and help in the deployment of the Squadron Moss Cos to the south of the country, at that time on behalf of the Lord Saura to the department, of Initiative, which also made changes, and certainly with an excess of presses that were not too good. Let's get things straight. Above all, also, another reason why we won't be doing politics with the Squad Coast is for responsibility – responsibility. Because together for Catalonia we ruled the Department of the Interior. I come from a party that we have ruled for many years in the Department of the Interior. And we are aware of the complexity, and we are aware of the difficulties. And, therefore, we will always make a responsible speech around the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. They have very little credibility those political forces that allowed a 155 to defend the Cose of the Squadron Mosses. They have very little credibility those political formations that allowed a judgment to the dome of the Mosso d'Esquadra to lay their hands on it, to lay it down and intercede on it, to question the quality and excellence in defending the rights and freedoms of the Mosso d'Esquadra. But they also have very little credibility for those political forces that, when they do not govern the Department of Interior, in the first crisis in the cantonada they quickly call for the resignation of the councillor, trying to demarcate themselves. We won't do one thing or the other. And Councilman Elena knows. And the president knows. Because we will act responsibly, because we want to respect and we want to appreciate and we want to appreciate that the work of the Squad's Body is worth. The second point to highlight is that we will defend the prestige of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra before any attempt to discredit it. And here we have seen many political forces that have done so in their intervention. They talk a lot about security, they talk a lot about not knowing what, they talk a lot about not knowing how many, but they come here and see who says it the biggest. This... we won't be in this game either. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Come from unionism and from the extreme right o come from the anti-system forces. They won't find us in this game. We're not going into the contempt of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Just because we're independent. And because every independentist knows that the defense of our sovereignty also goes through a good management of the aspects where we have sovereignty. And squadron moss is a state structure. It's a central element of a state, the national police. And it's a clear example of what brings us closer to sovereignty and extends us away from the dependency of the Spanish State. Because, as many have done, we could also make a long list of all cases of bad police practice and state security. And very long. From espionage, counter espionage, follow-up, non-pronounced lawfare causes, from police beatings to different institutions that have ended up in no way. A long list these years. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is an example of how to become more sovereign, brings us quality to the public service, brings us excellence in public services. And, precisely, the third value: because we will act with demand. We're self-demanding, yes. With the Squad Ways we are self-demanding, just because we respect them, because we esteem them, because we appreciate them. Because we don't understand this pem-pam-pum. A fully democratic country has a good police force. And the Catalans and the Catalans have it. And we can be proud of it. And it's a sense of shared pride. I've heard the last question of public security in Catalonia, which values the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra with a 7.3. The tallest note. Therefore, it is a sense of pride shared with the conjunction of the city. That is why, in this sense, we are prepared to talk about everything, and that is why we have given the green light, this legislature, to a review committee of the police model in parliamentary committee, where it will be possible to talk about everything, where it will be possible to focus on all the important and important aspects. And, also, as the President himself has acknowledged, there are aspects and challenges that have been working for some time now and that we must continue to face them. The willingness to increase the actual body to 22,000 agents by the year 2030. For this reason, advisors Buch and Sàmper, the predecessors of Councillor Elena, have already negotiated with the State the increase of effect with new calls. All the impediments that have been made by different governments of the Spanish State... The second, the will to rejoin the Squad Coast. And in this sense, we rejoice that a long claim to the body..., and now you can prejugate at the age of sixty, like the rest of the bodies, the moves. I, finally, have a thing that assimilates, every time... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish the president – at the mercy of our society, with a pair of men and women. So, we're working because the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad, and we'd Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad For this reason, from Juntes to Catalunya, we insist that there is no question of the dissipation of the thousand agents of the Mossos, nor of the professionalism of their commands. Let them do the work. Let them work discreetly. Let them and turn them away from the pim-pam-pum and the political and media focus. And we appreciate the work and rigour and solvency of all the professionals, from the first end to the last, who have so far led the Squadre Mossos Cos, as the previous summit of the Squadre Mossos command. And, as it cannot be otherwise, we have the new dome at our disposal to deal with the security challenges that the country has, which is to build a better country, with better services, and to contribute among all to building the Catalonia of the 21st century, which guarantees rights and freedoms for everyone. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.167.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Chakir the Homrani has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.168.0	Thank you, President. President, counselors, advisors, look, I'm going to change a little bit of my intervention, because I'm aware of a situation that I think I need to share with all of you and I think we need not all of you. If they do, I am the last Member to speak in this debate, hoping whether or not the President wants to reply, and we are all men. and I'm aware of it. [[applause]] I think we haven't done it in a deliberate way, but I think we should think about it, because it also means something. And I wanted to start with this reflection, because I think consciousness is important. First of all, thank you, President, for your appearance before the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia today. A comparison that takes place between a petition made by the Comú Pode Group and which forms part of the parliamentary logic: between the accounts of the Government, and you as President of the Generality, around the decisions that are taken when the chamber asks you. And the same way you did and I'll thank you, so did the 19th generation of the Councillor in the Committee on the Interior, and he's done it in various control sessions of this hemisphere. And also, to be fair, situate that you compared the 19th generation in the first commission that there was from the Interior after your petition. And also remember that from the 1st to the 15th generation it's impossible to... [[the timer riu]] , parliamentary work. To be fair at all, eh. From here, this request for appearance was discussed. He's got an answer for unanimity. Because explaining decisions is part of politics; it is part of politics in a very clear way. And I think it has become clear, after the Councillor's explanation to the Commission of the Interior, after the replies to the control session, both from the Councillor and the President – because he also had questions about respect at the control session – as in the President's appearance, which is the political will of the changes he has made. A few changes – and I have to say – everyone makes it very clear that the government has the right to do so. The councilman and the whole government have this legitimacy. But some changes that, if I may, are not able to give the honorability of the whole thing – and of the whole thing is of all its agents and all its commands – and, at times, while you say that the honorability of the body is indisputable, speak of purging. That can't be done. Because, if not, there are commandos and agents who participate in purges, or who are allowed to influence. And I think we need to say that out loud too. It is a disarray of the body and everything it represents; not of the commands– of sub-intendents, sub-intendents, stewards and commissioners–, but of all the agents, of the more than 2,500 agents who work at the Criminal Investigation Commission..., which we have here many motions. And I think we have to say it out loud, too. I would like to point out and reaffirm some of the points we have made during these months that I think are important. This government and, in this case, the Interior Council is making changes; it is making changes, it is transforming. And you have the legitimacy to be a government, chosen by the House of Commons, and you have the ability to find agreements in parliamentary groups and majorities, because we are in a government that does not have an absolute majority, like most European indreits. And that means looking for the supports, and looking for the supports around a logic, in security policies and a transformation of security policies. And, for me, the clearest example is to have the ability to agree on a police model commission study plan between the two political forces that we support the government and the two parliamentary groups that we support the government, the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia, and In Comú Pueblo and the CUP. And they know that we'd be more people if there was this ability to find the axes, with different looks. And it was seen in the interventions of the spokespersons of the three groups with whom we signed this study commission. But this is democratic normality, and this is the exercise we need to do. And what we're doing, and I said it, counselor, if you remember, when the Interior Committee ended up in which you compared the 19th generation. I said to him, "This is not over; this will continue. And I think it continues not by concrete decisions, not by whom, as Congressman Pellicer said; but that it is continuing basically for what and why. And that too must lead us to reflect: what and why. In the field of education, in the field of work, in the health field, no one discusses that there are various political approaches to the public service and to the defence of this public service, and that the colors of governments and the colors of the majority parliaments explain various policies in this field. And in the d'Interior it seems not. I'm worried about me. And I'm worried, because it's such an important public service, security policies, like health, like work, like education, like social services. There's got to be a political look around it. And I think that's what it's about. And that should give us a lot of thought. Because yes, because it's transforming and transforming from the majority that it's found and from the majority that the government has, and it's transformed into that feeling. That's why I've been writing down some of the things that they said in their interventions. Mr. Illa spoke of the illness of the Mossos d'Esquadra, renouncing the authority, the questioning of the police model, the mistrust of the government to the Mossos, which have not been explained the changes. I think he's already given a lot of answers to the explanation of the changes. But I'm giving you a thought, Mr. Illa – and to your group, eh? – in form..., des del respect, etcetera. Look, we're doing a police model study committee, and just last week Professor Medina appeared. He is a professor specialising in security policies at the University of Seville, who has made his entire career to the United Kingdom, and who returned a year and a half ago. And he made a very curious comment. He explained to us that it was enough for him that the police model debate in the Spanish State – and he referred to the Spanish State, because the Catalan logic does not know it very well – is much bias and is absolutely polaristic. And that he was holding on to, because he came from a political tradition where this debate is very normal. And he explained to us that Theresa May, when she was Minister of Interior, makes a legislative change to deal with one of the most critical aspects with all the police models, that they are racially and ethnically based identifications, and that she changes, and that she makes public all the identity parades and ethnic origin from which she is asked for documentation, because there was a debate in this. Theresa May, who later became prime minister. And I listen to you, and I listen to your group in the previous plenary, when they say that the authority sees the law biting, because that's what they told us in the previous plenary, and I think they've accepted a playing field and I'm out. And cheer up in this playground, and play in this playground. And to me suddenly, because I think that in security policies there have also been political views, and these debates are normal, and it can't be that it's subsuming to PP, to VOX to Citizens. And when that teacher, Professor Medina, made this reflection on us refers to the Spanish State. I told you once: your policy here is VOX policy in the State. And it's a surprising little thing – and it's a surprising little thing. And I think you have to say it. In the same way that I will not respond to the groups that have accused us and accused the Government of undermining the Mossos d'Esquadra. Because I think that citizenship is smart and because I'll only answer them in one way: it's as easy as recovering the hemerotheque, and not long ago – and not long ago – and I'll see everything they've said. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish the president – on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and on its professionals. And lastly, I also want to place it. There has been a very concrete part of the debate in which the changes have taken place – the Cid deputy has taken place – and all the changes that have taken place in the last few days. And I, if I may, Mr Cid, and I know that he has not done so voluntarily, but I will certainly place him in the position that I believe he explains the changes to the dome of the Mosso d'Esquadra and forget that there was a 155, and that the changes in the commissioner in chief, most of the changes that have been donated in the last five years have been derived from the removal of Major Trapero. I've listened to a lot of people defending Major Trapero. We congratulate him on the work he did. Now, when he was dismissed, they were all quiet. [[applause]] Many of what the Mosses have defended – not you, I'm not saying for you, eh? I said for other groups – they were quiet. And, in this sense, remember that this power and the ability to make policies in police matters, with ideological gaze, must be able to do just as it is in education, in salvation. And that's why, counselor, that's why, president, they'll continue to have the support of this group and of the groups that support the government, and we'll continue to build majorities, like we girls with the UPC, with the commons and trying to add more people, because, that you're doing well in security policy, it's that you're doing well in the city and the citizens of this country, and it's that you're still doing better for the weakest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.169.0	Mr. Homrani...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.170.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.171.0	Thank you. Once all the parliamentary groups have spoken, the President of the Generality has the word in the turn of reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.172.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Councillors, advisers, Members of Parliament, first of all, I find that most of the speakers on the part of the parliamentary groups, from my point of view, have confined themselves exclusively to the intervention they had prepared before I spoke, because they have basically been talking about security issues that we have been discussing at the length of this chamber, at the length of this legislature, which refer to the position that each political group has respect for its vision of how the public security competitions on the part of the Government of Catalonia and little about the intervention that I have made. In any case, I have seen that there is a bar of..., which is, of course, a bar of opinions and misinformation with which there are debates that can be faced, it has to face this Parliament, and decisions that we are taking in terms of the orientation of public security policy to our country. In any case, what are the security challenges in our country? Because we haven't talked about this today. First of all, the need to have more tools to fight an organized crime that has increased its complexity of action; for example, in all areas related to cultivation, distribution and trafficking of marijuana, but also in internationally organized crime, which in a context such as today is also a cause for concern. Secondly, the 4_on_5 alarm of the terrorist threat has been maintained, and unfortunately, in the past few days, there have been no threats in this sense of concern, we need to continue to put all our attention and early action to it. In the third place, the whole cybercrime area, which is a new form of crime where we need a reinforcement of the Squad Cross. In this sense, we are also for this, we are talking, therefore, of incorporating our profiles that allow us to improve much in this area. This will be an area where there is likely to be a risk that, as well as international events, will increase in the next few years. Also the fight against male violence. Many times it is possible to use figures on crime rates in certain crimes: the sixty per cent of sexual assaults are inside the lar. Don't let the vagina look out. Let's not focus on the origin or nationality of the aggressors, let's focus on what goes into the world and how we act. And these are security measures, but they are absolutely comprehensive measures and, therefore, a clear feminist commitment of the government in this sense. And, then, a whole set of crimes linked to..., that take advantage of the situation of social vulnerability that suffers an important part of our population and that turn victims into accomplices, and that, therefore, also can act decisively. For this reason, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has to continue to improve, it has to continue to adapt to our times. In front of us, immobilism would make our police a much less effective police than it is now. Therefore, continuous review, improved and also set up policy debates on security matters, which is a fan of Parliament's march and which is where it is to be done. We've heard a bar of all this, and I don't think that any of the events that are important and that for me are the security policy files that we carry: the top of 22,000 square moves granted, which will allow a progressive deployment, incorporating around seven hundred..., between seven hundred and eight hundred agents in each year. Retirement at sixty-two years, which has eluded one of the risks that we had, as I said before, of keeping in the second activity of..., sixty, sixty years old, which has eluded the possibility that there will be an important part of the agents in the second activity. The renovation of the mobile park of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which runs in the line of all the better of the material media that they must have for the exercise of their work. Also, some that have been obviated until the last interventions, which I thank that has been mentioned: the only purge that has been made by strictly political reasons was the 155, which ceased the commands of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos. And those who endorsed with their vote in the Senate the application of 155, who now come to speak of purging, and those who endorsed that they stop now intend to put them down, so as heroes, I believe that, as a minimum, it is a contradiction that I have been forced to subrate. [[Some applause.]] This government is fully engaged in the fight against corruption; I believe we have demonstrated it and will continue to demonstrate it. And back to what I said in the initial intervention, that in theory it was the motive and that there was a lot of talk in the interventions of some groups. The changes that have occurred will not only weaken the compromise of Mossos d'Esquadra in the fight against corruption, but will strengthen it; they will strengthen it, because it has the most effectiveness. And starting from the individual compromise of all and every member of the body in the fight against corruption, we make a more modern structure, more agile, more prepared for today and, obviously, also in the fight against corruption. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.173.0	Then, as the President of the General has spoken, the remaining representatives of the parliamentary groups can hold their right to reply, for a maximum of five minutes. Tea, in the first place, says the deputy Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.174.0	Madam President... Mr Aragonès, it is not taken as a discourtesy that I do not approach any of the assumptions that you mentioned in your reply; I want to go to the bone spring, I want to go to the assumption that I think it is essential, right? If you want us to value the safety stakes, better do the safety plan, have the obligation to do it, and when you have made the debate. [[Some applause.]] And it respects the effect, major effects, decided that I celebrate, well, something has happened to see the Government of Spain – something has happened to see the Government of Spain. The spring of the bone for me is the following: I believe that the policy of security that you are doing is not the one that most of the people of Catalonia want; yes, the one that wants a part of the people of Catalonia, but not the one that wants the centrality of the people of Catalonia. I think they want a different policy. They don't want to make this up. I want to be very clear. They're not worth making up, they want the things we've always done: they want authority in the agents, who have the tools to do the job. They want this. This group... in this Parliament there have been eight groups, four of us have had responsibilities in the direction of the Mosses: the two who are part of the government, the common ones and us. All of us have made mistakes in the direction of the Mosses – all of us – but it is giving an unprecedented situation so far, that is that the group that has the responsibility applies a policy that sets it by another group that is the CUP. For this reason, I ask you: I appoint a counselor to one of the groups, because at least they will face the obligations arising from decisions that they do not condition, do not influence, determine. That's what I'm complaining about. And we make a policy that responds to the centrality that wants the people of Catalonia. A lot of people might think, "Well, it's that Mr. Aragones had no choice but to do so, because, in fact, to be president he required the votes of the CUP. This can't be said anymore, from now on it can't be said anymore, because I'm going back to offering you that you can change policy in this matter – just there, huh? , in this matter I can change policy – and has the support of my group. He'll be following the president. You've got plenty of money to change your security policy. And if it doesn't, it won't be because you're conditioned for parliamentary arithmetic; it will be because you decide not to. The second view I want to make refers to the honorability, professionalism of the Cos dels Mossos and the commission of inquiry. And sometimes... it's like, I don't like to abuse the commissions of inquiry – I don't like it – and I think sometimes we don't. They're all right, they're all necessary and they're all essential. And I think one of them is that we've called for and that it's going to be debated this late. I say one thing to him and I say it in his parliamentary office: I do not withdraw my qualification, because he is measured and I think I have given evidence to measure the words – I may be mistaken, but I measure them –, I do not withdraw the accusation or the purge qualification that has been said. But I'll take it off if it's a commission of inquiry and they show me it hasn't been like this. I ask you – I ask you – that I ordered your group to give it support. If you are so convinced that there was no purge, let's make it clear. I have elements to think that yes, I have explained them to my intervention; but I solemnly tell him that I will withdraw it if it is an investigation commission and I see that it is not so. I'll apologize to him, more than that. And one last consideration in the minute I'm left. Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And in these bodies, cos psychology, collective morality is very important. You said, "When you wear the uniform in the locker room, you go out on the street and... How do you go out on the street when you see that Ishi withdraw the defenses when his act is judicial? Or when they see that they don't process the complaints they're filing? Think about it, that. Just as in an army – and I didn't just like analogy, but it's the best I can find – it's measure, let's say, the quality, the sense of an army's collection of how it treats the wounded and the dead, in a hierarchical way, like a police thing, the Cos of the Mosses, it's very important how it treats the people it takes. And I think that the stuff that was made by some people – that they can decide, that I have never discussed it or discussed it –, the deal that Ishi gave himself, for which we have read, for which we read at his time at the press, is not what they deserved, but what they deserved the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.175.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Vox Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ignacio Garriga, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.176.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, you have started your speech by pointing out to us that we came with the prepared speeches and that we have not alluded to just what you have asked us. Indeed, because you..., your intervention, from beginning to end, has been a compendium of lies and falsehoods to deny reality, which is none other than both you and the interior advisor have behaved like real trilers trying to make the Catalans believe that we didn't know where the ball was. But the reality is that we know where the ball is, and you will be responsible for the trophies you have committed in the last few months with the commanders of the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Greetings.]] You too, and I am pleased... I suppose it was a result of Mrs Artadi's earlier encouragement to talk about security, and you spoke here and said: "We have talked little about security. Well, if you want to talk about security, explain to the Catalans..., Mr Councillor of the Interior, update the protocols and say in parliamentary office, if you are brave, explain what goes, for example, the pla d'acció polyèdric, which is a plan of action that you had to deal with with the obligation to take forward by the violence of the herd of MENA that we have in our neighborhoods. [[Greetings.]] Or get out here and explain to the Catalans how is the pla d'acció Tremall, which is that plan that they were forced to move forward quietly because Catalonia is plagued by multiple incidents that you push to our streets and our neighborhoods. Please also explain why your Justice Adviser desperately demands a second court of custody for immediate trials, because Catalonia is the paradise of criminals thanks to its goodness and its complicity with illegal immigration. [[Greetings.]] Get out here and explain all that to speak for real, Mr. Aragonès, for security, which is what the Catalans as a whole are claiming, and you are tired of seeing how you stand aside. Look, stop using the Mossos d'Esquadra and the various public institutions in Catalonia; stop taking on the real responsibility you have. Its policy of open doors with illegal immigration, its policy of promoting multiculturalism, has consequences in our neighborhoods and in our streets. Therefore, stop pointing to sexism, stop contributing to that account of the need to create these new masculinities chiringuitos – which, in the midst of social and economic emergency, you believe these chiringuitos with your communist partners..., you should fall in shame – and what you really have to do is to expel all illegal immigrants who are in our streets delinquent and sowing terror on our daughters and on our women. [[Greetings.]] And, yes, to our children too, but I advise you to review the latest crime data, that yesterday our deputy spokesman said it at a press conference: how in Catalonia violations have increased by penetration, and that rests on their responsibility and on the responsibility of the Home Secretary. You also wanted to talk about the need to transform the security model in Catalonia. Well, I certainly encourage you to take the bull by the horns and once and for all guarantee safety in the streets of Catalonia. But we are tired of seeing how their transformation or their security model goes by distorting reality to make Catalans believe a false sense of security, when what we really need is a model that gives the material and legislative tools necessary for the state security bodies and forces operating in Catalonia, to expel all illegal immigrants who are delinquent and to put in jail all those who are sowing terror throughout Catalonia. Therefore, Mr Aragonès and Members of Parliament, stop raising your hands and walk around the neighbourhoods, where we are, week yes and week no [[applause]] listening to testimonies of the consequences of their harmful policies of multiculturalism and complicity with crime. You are at the side of criminals; we, at the side of ordinary Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.177.0	Next, the deputy of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win Xavier Pellicer has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.178.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, president... just a few questions, president. In his interventions he has not brought anything again. Nor has he made any new or definite contribution that we have not heard on repeated occasions. Therefore, we have not been able to give different answers or deepen them, or at least, to our opinion, nor have we found them. For us, the question of the changes to the inside dome is an absolutely worn question, completely out of the political debate, rather than trying to place or try to put before the table other questions that they have nothing to do with who, but, as we said before, they have nothing to do with. And, therefore, there will hardly be any new contributions. In any case, what we have already translated – and we have said it on repeated occasions – is that we can understand that certain forces, because they change things, play certain roles; but what is hard for us to hear, too, is that other forces can do the game in this way with certain proposals and not going to the fund. Don't be us defending the government. But in any case, we talk about what, we don't talk about who and we don't facilitate certain alliances, which are easily there and do, as we can see. And here we meet, talking about what. And here we have almost always found ourselves in the policies of the Interior, in the policies of security and in the answers that must be given in order to preserve, above all, the fundamental rights and the material rights. And we're dealing with the security debate with what and why, because we've already seen what happens if we don't approach it or if we approach it by buying certain brands, which is that it's the extreme right and takes oil from there where it's left to take oil. And they appear on the basis of certain mantras, which end up buying them much of the hemicicle that would not be proclivated or that would not be defined as the extreme right. He spoke before Barcelona. The crime index in Barcelona is at the very bottom, now, of the crime index that there was when it governed Convergence. And, in addition, there are graphs that show that the crime rate increases with the increase in tourism. So, we're talking about data and we're talking about why and don't we make certain indirect associations or we're buying certain brands that favor the fact that in passing oil, the extreme right with its farce, with its lies and its intentions, that they don't try to impose even more inequality and try to generate even more conditions because it's more delinquency. That said, Mr. Illa, I think you have a contradiction or some absolutely flagrant contradictions. They commit to repeal the biting law, here they ask for the enthusiastic application of the biting law and ask for it while it is in a process of renewal, change or end up softening this biting law. We have a clear understanding of what we have to do, which is to repeal it. I think you have a problem knowing what you want to do. And beyond political tacticalism or short-sightedness or short-sightedness, or short-sightedness, what do they want to do? In any case, at the moment what they have done is buy the mark of the right, buy the mark of the People's Party. And they've done it with labor reform, and now it looks like they're doing it with the law too. So we don't understand. What do they want? What do we do with the Interior Council? Let's talk about why they'll give us support? To do what, anyway? In any case, what we will do is take on the responsibilities that it takes when it takes to move forward in a very clear _mark that we have already delimited this beginning of the legislature and that we have not changed a single comma. And it is a question, and also in the realm of trivializing the extreme right and putting it all in the same bag. Mr. Batet, you don't put it in the same bag. We heard an expression before he spoke of the extreme right at the side of the anti-system and made this barrage in defense of the Mosses. We don't think it favors Catalan institutions by making these types of comparisons and putting the extreme right or the anti-system layouts in the same bag. Because an independence plantation in the Spanish state is an anti-system plantation. Therefore, we would be grateful to you that you have been more careful in making these comparisons. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.179.0	The next word is Mr David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.180.0	Thank you, President. I'm starting with a previa. Look, what affects the most current Catalans are the minimum wage, the ERTOs, or that they can't get rid of when they have a disease; questions to which the extreme right has always voted not to. So, you defend the current Catalans... you defend the people of pasta, which is for what they serve and for what the extreme right serves, isn't it? I mean, I've really focused on the subject, huh? In any case, I also have to say that he didn't deepen it either. I insisted on it, I said, how really this network was built, with whom I had spoken, if I had only spoken to the Councillor of the Interior, whether or not he had agreed with the government's council. I think this is an important element and I think you have to see it too, don't you? It's important which one. And it's said now, it's made reference: and it's also important why. Why is it a woman to understand that the former dome of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra was a tap for certain model changes that they wanted to make in the cos, right? Well, actually, the CUP, right? He insists a lot that surely it's not so important which, it's more important why. The problem... there, and above all the model, the what. The problem is... I just need to see Mr. Batet's intervention or Mrs. Artadi's intervention today. If the problem isn't us, if the problem is that he has within the government. In fact, Mr. Batet told me that, at the time, they changed too quickly in the Interior Council. I suppose you have to see..., for example, he was talking about the rooms at the police stations, because these were the changes that were made, at the time, to the Interior Council. Certainly, changes that you didn't like. Or like the Police Ethical Code, which you didn't like either. So, what do you say you've never done politics with the interior... we can also, if you want, talk about the firemen and Horta de Sant Joan, one day; but it's better if we leave it in the band, because we could also talk about it in depth, right? He was talking to you, too, wasn't he? We're talking about the model. I think it's important to know if these changes will help or not help this model change. I insist, we haven't seen this model change, have we? Actually, we're seeing it with the charges, too. There's no change from the anterior... there's no change from the anterior dome of the body. He was also talking about the backs, you placed him in the second intervention. I only make one point: it counts on the game, and it counts on what you have to see with cybersecurity crimes, linked, for example, to the whole cryptocurrency market. Count on it. Nor does it connect much that we are very concerned about the theme of the game with wanting to build the largest casino in Europe at Camp Tarragona. Also, if we want to discuss security and models, we also talk about who the government's strategic stakes are. We're very concerned about this subject, and we don't think it matters, do we? And then, too, about the best of the body. Well, we also understand that, obviously... I was insisting on this before, I mean, the bet to have a well-prepared, well-formed, comprehensive police of Catalonia with the necessary effect is also our commitment. We, both from the Government of the State as well as in the assumptions, as much as it is with the number of agents, as also with the conditions of the agents, as also with the vehicles, that you already make reference..., knows that our Deputy of the Interior, Marc Parés has also placed it in the agreement of assumptions; it is also a priority for us. And that doesn't mean that you can't criticize or that you can't find that there are certain changes that we don't see clearly, right? And, finally, I end with a reflection – and I take the word of it and it's what we're going to be about –: for us, it's essential to compromise the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and especially its commands – and, logically, also the Government – in the fight against corruption. And it's normal for us to worry about certain changes, I insist, as it is in the investigative commissioner. Anyway, we'll grab his word. You said there's not going to be a one-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand, right? , to be relentless in any case that there may be corruption, affection that affects. Obviously, we are not speaking only of the Government, but of the conjunction of the public institutions of Catalonia. And that's what we're going to get, and that's what we're going to be paying attention to because that's what it is. And this must be our compromise, and it is our greatest concern, and it is what has worried us in this web, that we do not understand that, well, there were elements that were not sufficiently clear. And it was the motive of our appearance. And I insist on this: this will be the element for which we will obviously age and also, depending on this, so when the time comes we will assess whether this compromise that the President has taken over today has been or has not been fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.181.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.182.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, you are right, we have not talked about the security challenges; but it was not the issue. But if you want, I'll give you a little hint in the replica. Look, for us, the security model is: more cops – because we have fewer moves than we should –, more endowment and more means for those cops, more prestige for the police, more respect for their authority, not leaving them at the feet of the horses, not making the currency of change, not letting the anti-systems establish the model of the police system, coordination with the rest of the state's security forces and bodies. And, in short, we believe that good security policies better guarantee the freedom of all – of all – workers, entrepreneurs and the whole world, of all citizens. And that means that security policies must be pragmatic and that there is a lot of scope in the agreement between the political forces, but, yes, not from the prejudices of the anti-system parties that it seems that they are the ones who end up commanding in Catalonia what our security model and our security policies should be. You have also mentioned..., and it seems very good to me, because you are the president of the Generalitat and the chief maximum of the police, as we said before, and it is good that you allude to the working conditions of the agents. He referred to early retirement. We are glad that this has been achieved, which is an old claim also from my group, which has always supported it. But that was not the point either. The issue was above all the cessation, for example, of Lieutenant Rodriguez, who was terminated by a matter of style, as the first decision of the new Chief Commissioner on the day of his appointment. And the question of style in..., when you were referring to a question of style, for, in fact, it was the fact that the Lieutenant Rodriguez collaborated, as it could not otherwise be, with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in the investigation of Councillor Buch. And it's a matter on which the right hand of Lieutenant Rodriguez, Deputy Inspector Lazo, had to apply for the judge's protection. He had to ask, the deputy inspector at the mayor's orders, for the judge's protection from the pressures he received from his political leaders in order not to investigate cases of alleged corruption. In short, Mr President of the Generalitat, for us today you have come here to drain the lump and in the reply you have seen. And I told you before, when I told you that you came here to pretend to talk about other things and to shield yourself behind the Body of the Mosses d'Esquadra. No, no, we insist. The Mossos, the Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra is worthy of all respect, and that is why we ask its political leaders to respect and care for it. Therefore, as we understand that your appearance has served nothing to clarify all the legitimate criticisms, I believe, and well-founded too, that we have made you from the opposition, and that you have actually come here to escape from the study, as we say in Catalan, for I am announcing that we are going to persist in the attempt to approve this committee of inquiry into these facts, which have, yes, been called « purgation and have been called « depuration and have been called « revenge, because they have the faces of purgation, purification and revenge. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.183.0	Then, has the word Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.184.0	Thank you very much, President. President, councillor, councillor, deputies, deputies, three ideas of the turn of interventions. The first, to repeat that Together for Catalonia we will not do politics with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, that we will act with full responsibility and also with demand, that it is a self-requirement, to have a quality security cos to serve the joint of the citizenry to guarantee rights and freedoms. Therefore, this premise is basic, as is all the respect for the decisions made by Councillor Elena around the changes that he thinks are appropriate, and if he doesn't, those that he thinks are appropriate, so as to guarantee a quality service in these terms. So I made myself clear. Mr. Illa, you say that you will remove the word "purga" if it is proved that, on the board of inquiry, it did not follow, did it not? I mean, if it's a commission of inquiry, because... Look, listen to our parliamentary group's mescoltiel we don't get into tripijocs with the opposition – already there's progress – around whether or not it's a commission of inquiry, because what we won't do is leave the councilman alone. Because, when this happened to us in the past and the councilman was left alone, and we had the responsibility of government, we saw it was a fever in the conjunction of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. So we wouldn't have any problems, because there was a commission of inquiry, because you made it clear that Juntes for Catalonia had nothing to do with the decisions taken by the councilman, who took them autonomously in the framework of his competitions. But we wouldn't have any. But we understand that the explanations given by the councillor, that today the president has given, and the appearances that matter and are given to the Interior Committee, are sufficient. But if the councillors and the government think they're going to take the commission, no problem. Therefore, our utmost loyalty to the Government in the position and defense of action in front of the Squadron Mosses. Second appearances. With all the love, huh? Mr. Pellicer felt relieved when he was talking about the anti-system. I wasn't thinking about the CUP, with the anti-system forces. [[remorse of the voice]] At those moments. No, I have to say it. There are many anti-system forces. I wasn't thinking about the CUP. Because you, of the system, are already a few years old from the system. [[Rialles.]] Valls have been governors since '91. With all due respect, I mean, huh? They're already a few years old, so they're also Members of Parliament here in the Parliament of Catalonia, aren't they? And finally, Mr. Cid. Mr. Cid... clearly, it's that Mr. Cid gives me a little thanks, because he shows up here... he's been an Initiative activist. Mr. Saura, exactly, was the one with the dark butt machines that allowed the greatest flexibility that there was in the subject of games, that were the dark butt machines, when he was an interior advisor. But that already forms part, a little, of the prehistory. Do you understand me? I understand that you sometimes have to take refuge with these things. But, of course, when they speak of examples of security and speak "Barcelona..., so, man, so no. I mean, Mayor Colau and the city of Barcelona... it's not an example of public safety management. And it's not the same as the current case of Mayor Colau's security, when the first decision he made when she was mayor was to remove the City Security Regiment from the assembly. I asked you, do a survey of all the mayors of Catalonia, who don't have a Ciutadana Security Regiment. And that's what Mrs. Colau did. So, listen'm, it's a little strange that they come to make certain speeches here and criticise certainly political forces that are precisely the ones that allowed Mrs. Colau to be mayor of Barcelona, because all they criticise are the votes of Mr. Manuel Valls, who voted for Mrs. Colau because there was no independent mayor at the Barcelona Assembly. Therefore, a little healing and rigour and responsibility. Because he can't go to Mass and ring the bells. Because, if you want the votes of what Mr. Manuel Valls represents, then you can't go to criticise what Mr. Manuel Valls represents. Because to be mayor, Mrs. Colau needed Ciutadans' votes and the one represented by Mr. Manuel Valls at the Barcelona Assembly. [[Greetings.]] Responsibility, rigour, defense of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. It has cost us many years to have a national police force in Catalonia; it is a symbol of self-government, of sovereignty, and that Together for Catalonia we defend, because it is ultimately defending the rights and rights of citizens and Catalans. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.185.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Chakir the Homrani has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.186.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, councillor, explanations have been given. He gave explanations to the councillor; he gave explanations to the very honourable president. Responsive to a political will to improve the body, to update the body, to face the challenges that we have in the matter of security, with a very powerful instrument, that are divided_thousand agents of Mossos d'Esquadra, that will grow to 22,000. And what's nearby is working; working and working and working. And if I may, I'll be very quick. From the second intervention that has occurred in the reply, today, in this plenary, we can act on two sides: by obeying it, it can be a way; or look, many and many of those who are here, which in any case, beyond many differences, we must find ourselves answered to an indecent – indecent – speech, ignominious, which has been made from the Faristol of this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And I think we have a very big rep – I think we have a very big rep – and I look at everyone in this room, except the extreme right. And they're already telling me. We have a very important challenge, because the answer is not security. The answer is how we can accompany a lot of citizens who find themselves homeless; because of the economic situation, because of the uncertainties they are experiencing. And it's these guys who end up buying these speeches. And the opposite is how we accompany them, how we give them answers from the institutions, how we get back from politics, from legitimate differences and legitimate differences, from not accepting this playing field, because then we find animals like they said and we can't stop them. And we need to get out of the realm of security, because the answer is much deeper. And it's deep for everyone: for the generality of Catalonia, for all the assemblies of this country, for the state and for all the countries of the European Union. Because that doesn't just happen here; it's happening in a lot of places. And play with por, with uncertainty. There are many people who now find themselves obliterated by all the administrations, governed by the political party I represent here, but governed by all the political parties that are here, except the extreme right. And that's the repte. And in the matter of security, if I may, to give an answer to this setback, we should be able to remember the least; these debates that the United Kingdom is a fan of normality, to have them here. Being able to see it. Do we care that the storekeeper, that the master, that the dynou years old who is in the park knows the squadron move for his name? Do you care that there are squadron movements that are references to nanos that have come from other world-rights and that know how to speak their language? Do we care that there are women who give a much more sensitive and empathetic response to women who see what they say is secondary, what is masculinism? We're interested in being as brave as that revolutionary, so-called Theresa May, who makes a law that says that they're going to check all the identifications and that it's going to be public where the stop is and what age did every person who stood to see that there's no racial identification? Are we interested in being able to respond to the crimes that are being done to social networks and the world of the Internet, to all of us who have pre-teen children, who see them hooked up on the screen and who suffer because we don't know who they're talking to? I think that's what we're talking about when we're talking about the police model. And transparency. And prosecution, no sense... we don't have a problem when we reinforce a protocol to care for infants who have suffered rape, and we don't doubt the health and social workers to reinforce that protocol, and because there are consequences if it's not complete, we don't doubt the Mossos. And I think that this debate we need to be able to keep it normal, because, if not, the second intervention that we've listened to in the reply is what we're going to gain and we're going to lose everyone – we're going to lose everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.187.0	Thank you very much. So after the appearance of the President of the Generality, we suspend the session until two-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.188.0	Let's resume the session. And warning of the withdrawal of a point from the order of the day, point number 11 – hope I can prove it – because we have rejected a request for reconsideration from a parliamentary group. And, therefore, we will make Table and Board of Spokesmen, and we will move the point to the order of tomorrow. [[Decree-Law No 2/2022 of 15 March amending Article 4 of Law No 10/2014 of 26 September 2014 on non-referendar popular consultations and other forms of citizen participation]] [[203-00020/13]] So let's move on to the fourth point of the order of the day, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2022, of March 15, amending Article 4 of Law 10/2014, of September 26, of popular consultations not referendums and other forms of civic participation. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Foreign Affairs and Open Government Councillor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the word has the councilwoman Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.189.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, at this point in the order of the day we take up the validation of Decree Law 2/2022, amending Article 4 of Law 10/2014, better known as the Law of Non- Referendum Consultations, which we are today carrying before the plenary, because it is essential, this validation is essential, for the celebration of a popular consultation on the submission of an application to host these Winter Olympics Games in 2030. This is the only legislative option that allows us to make this consultation in time and form, although this is a modification that has the objective of taking advantage of it for further consultation. Well, as the advisor responsible for the department that is competent in the field of participation, we will organize this consultation, which is directly from a young woman, the 104/XII, who was approved here in the Parliament of Catalonia. And it is also important to mention this: the fruit of a scheme, the Tremosa scheme, which succeeded in ensuring that Parliament is also shown in favour of an Olympic candidacy which was environmentally sustainable and which benefits existing sports facilities. Therefore, from the government we take up this dual mandate of Parliament. I wanted to start sharing with you three points that are important. First of all, that Catalonia acquits the Olympic Games is great news for the country's conjunct; but it is, above all, for the Pyrenees. It's for the Pyrenees, because there's a tremendously positive scener for things to happen, and important things to them. And also to locate the Pyrenees in the world and add this dimension of our country, which is the will to be open to the world. An important point is that, by putting this decree into effect, we lay down the legislative bases so that it is possible to give compliments to the organization of this consultation, in which we understand that the most affected people, the people who live in the Pyrenees, must participate. And, in this sense, he wanted to make a point that the Government is also taking the mandate very seriously, too, which he sees from Parliament, therefore, to agree, with the districts of Solsonès, Berguedà and Ripollès, this participation in the participatory process. Technically we are prepared, but this is a decision that, as the President said this morning in the plenary, he will take his own days. The third point I wanted to share with all of you: the success of this application lies very directly in the fact that the entire population of the municipalities and the communities where these games will pass, give a broad support and if you can understand the project. The Olympic Games of Barcelona are remembered as the best games in history precisely for this; for the involvement of the people of Catalonia, the people of Barcelona, in the organization and in the achievement of the same. In fact, what we're doing with this modification is posing, opening a new option in a legislative framework that is complex. We have the Law of Referendum Consultations, of the year 2010, which was brutally escaped by the Constitutional Court; we have the Law of Non- Referendum Consultations, which is what today we are modifying, of the year 2014, which also has been modified. And we had to do a rigorous study of the legal possibilities that we really had, so, in order to get this consultation going. And to summarise all of you what we are proposing today, therefore, to modify, said in a very flat and perhaps not strictly technical legal way, but that it is better..., until now, when a consultation was organized with this law, the President of the Generality could promote and convene consultations that affect the whole national area, the whole country, and the municipalities, the districts and the veggieries could make this promotion and convocation in their respective demarcations. Now, what we're open to is the possibility that the President of the Generality can do... also promote and convene these consultations in a part of the Catalan territory. Because until now, and without this change, the president could not do it directly and he had to promote himself to the institutions of a certain number of municipalities. So, that's what we put on the table. And, in this sense, it is important to put a certain emphasis on the fact that what we are modifying today does not, in any case, affect the right of participation or the autonomy of the local world, simply adding a complementary mechanism to the mark of this law of consultations. Another point that is important to share with all of you, because it will also mark the legislative agenda of future months, is that, although with this possibility we can approve today, can we not? , doing this type of consultation, despite the fact that the current Law 14/2014, has already been used more than thirty times in the local area, we are in a situation where we have a very imperfect legal framework and little suited for the type of participatory policies we want to make from the government. And, in this sense, from the Department of External Action and Government Obert, as we have already predicted in the normative plane, we intend to push a draft law of participation, which I left behind this fragmented model and which allows us to rearrange this map of options, guaranteeing the rights and rights, therefore, in the proper months. Two final points. First, a point: that the participation model that we have defended and been working from the outside department, was initially composed of three phases, which are three important phases from our point of view. First, a first information phase, because the government can actively explain what is the project being put to the vote. A second phase, which was a participatory phase, because you can incorporate into this project ideas that come from entities and people, right? Of everyone who wants to make a contribution to it, who knows well the reality of the Pyrenees. And finally, the consultation. For a matter of terms, we will not be able to do, before consulting, this participatory process to grab ideas and enrich the candidacy with these ideas of the territory. Therefore, this part, which we also consider essential to enrich the proper process and to bring an added value to the Catalan candidacy, will be able to produce more immediately, a time has come, if at last the yes, or even when it has been formally won. I just ended up saying that this government considers that the presentation of a candidacy for the game is a decision with extraordinary, extraordinarily positive implications; extraordinarily positive and, therefore, we will become a flag and defend the yes. The government will campaign for yes. A yes to turn the Pyrenees into a winter sports activity center. A yes to sustainable development, and a yes to progress and economic growth as a motor of change and improvement of people's lives. A yes, in short, that he would donate the Catalan citizens of the areas involved, because we will put this decision to his hands. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.190.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, according to which we agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman will be a maximum of five minutes per parliamentary group. The Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress begins, Deputy Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.191.0	Good afternoon, President. President, councillors, deputies and deputies know perfectly well that the first person to propose some winter games was the mayor of Barcelona, Jordi Hereu. And he did it with conviction and determination, like my parliamentary group, that he has no doubt about this. We want the Olympic Winter Games of 2030. And if we're clear that we want them, we're of the opinion that we don't need to consult. You just have to believe in the project, get in and explain how these games are going to be, and imagine the city and work for a winning candidacy. Undoubtedly, with unanimous support from the first minute, without hesitation and with firmness and determination. Do you know what we should be focused on at this time? To devote all efforts to making a candidacy with many possibilities to win, and do not waste time modifying the law of consultations. If the government agrees with the candidacy, we have to pull it forward and do it with conviction. Mirin, we are of the opinion that political stingers must stay out of this debate. The 2030 Olympic Winter Games project cannot be submissive to political changes. We must be able to go all folds and prepare an attractive candidacy, which illusions everyone. You have to bet decisively on the games. And it has to be done together with Aragó. Because one, when he's convinced and knows the step he's taking, he knows his potential, and he doesn't have a problem– no – sharing anything. Because, deputies and deputies, ruling is the decision. The own Olympic Winter Games of 2026 will be held in Italy, between Milà and Cortina. And do you know what motive the International Olympic Committee proposed not to give the games to Stockholm? So precisely the lack of solida of the Swedish government. I suppose they see parallelism there. We cannot afford this error, because, moreover, the International Olympic Committee has already stated that the Spanish candidacy must be with consensus between Catalonia and Aragó. The protagonist of these games must be the sport and the territory. It is clear that there is a will of the majority of the territory to do them. So, we work with a winning candidacy. An application that is sustainable from the environmental point of view, but also economic and territorial. Therefore, the issue is the realization of energy aspects, mobility, waste management, housing, infrastructure – including digital – necessary for the Pyrenees and for the whole territory, it is obvious, and, at the same time, compatible with the requirements to be able to celebrate the snow competitions of winter games. Putting on this subject would be bad. Discrepancies between partners and lack of cohesion between you cannot pass over an opportunity like this. We cannot afford to lose the Olympic Winter Games of 2030, as has happened with strategic projects for the future of Catalonia. You have already renounced the expansion of the Prat airport; you have already lost the European Medicines Agency, for the unstable situation of Catalonia, obviously. We don't have a modification of the consultation law, nor do we share it as..., as it has been..., as the consultation has to be done – forgive me. Look, you, when you fly, shoot for the right. And they don't look at it. And we've seen it these days. Have they put in any consultations for the educational community for school advancement? No, no, No, no. They didn't. What had to be done was dialogue and compromise, and not as Councillor Cambray said: "First we decide and then we debate. Stop stalling and contradicting yourself. If the Olympic Games of the winter of 2030 will be the first to talk, then to negotiate and then to agree – in this order – and I am sure that we will achieve an ingressor project that will bring as much illusion as the Olympic Games of Barcelona 92 were. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.192.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.193.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr President, Counsellor, Members, good afternoon. Today, the Government of the Generalitat, a decree law amending the law of non-referendum popular consultations, to which we are going to oppose for three reasons. First, a formal reason, for the legislative mechanism used; for a political question, for the issue behind this legislative change, and also for the way this law governs. First, we denounce the fact that the Government of the Generalitat has again abused the mechanism of the decree law. As we have already mentioned on other occasions, we believe that this Parliament is a mockery and its main function, the legislative function. If the Government of the Generalitat wants to amend a law, it must go to the ordinary procedure – present a bill and provoke parliamentary debate – and not go to these shortcuts, decrees, designed for cases of extraordinary and urgent need, which, of course, is not the case. Secondly, we oppose what is behind this legislative change: the lack of clear support for the celebration of the 2030 Winter Olympics in Spanish territory. The current law of popular consultations covers the possibility of holding consultations in multiple geographical areas and formulas, but it did not foresee this one, which contains this decree law: that the president of the Generalitat draw a map with the areas of Catalonia that he considers at every moment – which also seems that it is also not clear what the president is going to paint us – and ask the people who are in that territory something. And what does this come to, when the law itself says in its article 8, that the outcome of these consultations is not binding? The Government of the Generalitat does not want to take the decision on the celebration of the 2030 Winter Olympics in Catalonia. And since you don't dare decide, because this may involve a confrontation with... [[Widow's remorse.]] Hello? I'm talking. If you don't mind... This may mean a confrontation with your communist partners, yesterday's, CUP's, today's or..., as we have seen this morning, we also don't know at this time what your priority partners are; that, yes, everyone has a common position to oppose the generation of wealth, any activity that would generate wealth. So try, the government, to disguise it with a popular consultation. The lack of confidence in your own decision, your hesitations, your attempt to evade your responsibility and pass it on to the citizens who live in that territory where it would be celebrated, and it seems that in others nearby, right? through a binding consultation, they do not convey enthusiasm for this celebration; rather, the contrary. Nor is the lack of collaboration with other territorial administrations and, above all, with the Government of Spain, essential partners in this national project, the best way to reach agreement with the International Olympic Committee. Finally, comment on how to govern after this resort to popular consultations. In a democratic regime, as we all know, we citizens elect our rulers and hope that they will rule and do well. And ruling involves making decisions, even though sometimes those decisions can be unpopular or have a significant political cost. It does not seem a good way to govern or bravely circumvent their responsibility and transfer that decision to citizens through consultation. Citizens have already chosen their representatives, precisely to make decisions. Gentlemen of the Government of the Generalitat, if you do not dare or are not qualified to govern, go ahead and give way to others. Don't feel compelled to be in power. In VOX we are ready and ready to replace them. We have proposals to meet the real needs of the citizens of Catalonia and we know how to apply them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.194.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Member of the House of Representatives Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.195.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... they announced the Olympic Games consultation in the spring. You're all right. We don't approve of an essential step, a necessary legislative change. Yesterday, counselor, she was talking to us about mobilizing the consultation in summer, vacation period. I anticipate that maybe later we'll still talk again. In any case, this modification of the law of non-referendar popular consultations is a measure that opens the door to allow the territory to talk and decide about this Olympic Games macroproject, but also about, for example, the macrocase that is intended to implement in Tarragona. It is a non-concrete change as the consultation of the Olympic Games should be. It doesn't limit it or condition it. What we approve of today is the possibility of convening this type of consultation. We have a new tool for participatory democracy, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. But let's not be fooled, there are three fantasies that pursue this consultation about the Olympic Games, three fantasies that you must escape as soon as possible. First of all, this consultation must or must be included, in addition to the regions of Pirinius and Aran, those of Solsonès, Ripollès and Berguedà. It's not cheating, and the more when it's just a_me, this House approved a motion to give you a look at these businesses. If the government denies them, it will not only find it with our political opposition, but we are sure that they will also find it with the social opposition of the territory. President, in this sense, we also take the words and the compromise he made to us this morning that these trades will actually be in consultation. Second, the perversion of the procedure. A procedure that does not complete any of the ethical principles that you yourself publish on your Open Government website. Information, deliberation, decision – do they sound like it? – is the normal procedure of any process. How is it possible to consult on a project that has not been presented, on which there has been no information? There is an urgent need for a radical change in how the Government is implementing this proposal, because so far there is no transparency, no traceability, no deliberation, no equal opportunities for options, basically because we have no project to decide on. Be strict, please. I stop advertising and blackmailing the territory. They're still transparent and clear about what they're going to vote on. Third ghost, the question, if the IOC comes up with its own and they match the question, and ask a question that is not clear or concise in relation to the Olympic Games, that will be a fraud. Do not store, please, the Olympic Games of speculation and precarious work re-supposed development plans or strategic plans. Respect the territory and its people and be clear. People want to vote on a clear question giving a clear answer too: Yes or no to the Olympic Games candidacy. It's simple. We are afraid that what you are doing here is asking the people to do an act of faith and vote a priori, without projecting at hand, without any concrete proposal. The question is about an abstract idea of progress. They intend to validate the work they haven't done. Let us remember that public resources have been allocated, yes, from this candidacy, since 2010, starting from a blinded endorsement, and they seek to continue with a question that remains confusive. Don't be fooled, you've already said it, you've said it very clearly. You have taken part in this project of the Development of Work, this macro-event, because you do not have a project for the Pyrenees and the Aran, and the only magic formula that you have found for these regions is to perpetuate the model of development that has driven the "socio-virgency in this country: to continue to bet for the "tourism pilot, for the urban pilot, for the care and difficulty of access to housing, precarious and seasonal work, rural exodus, population depopulation and housing, economies still more depressed; in short, an aggravation of the current structural problem, with structural problems of the area. The CUP - A New Cycle to Win we are against these events and projects that are not able to bring back positive to the joint territory affected, and that only respond to the interests of the lobby of construction companies and tourism, defined from the expanses of the capital, and that these lifts have many examples. And the Pyrenees, the Aran doesn't deserve this. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.196.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.197.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, President. The debate we have today, here, in reality we all know that it is not about the decree of law or the literality of the text that we are discussing, but about a consultation on the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees. In fact, this is how the motivating statement of the appropriate text is presented to us, and the counselor has put it to us. Miri, with the text being put to the vote, we are in full agreement, because, obviously, the President of the Generality must be able to convene consultations on different territorial areas. But in the debate we want to be very clear, and it is that if the government is to compromise today that the Ripollès, the Berguedà and the Solsonès can participate in this consultation, we will vote in favour of this decree. If it's not like that, we won't. We asked the President this morning why he could tell us, and the reality is that the answer has not been clear. He said he'd make a decision on his own days, but we have to vote now. Mrs Sabater, the president has not been clear in the answer. He did not say that these three communities would vote and, therefore, we understand, therefore, that this decision is not yet under way. And we are surprised that the CUP is not in a strong position on an issue like this and I defend that these three communities can vote. And now is the time when we can defend him. Deia, the debate about the Pyrenees; a debate in which our position is very clear and you know that we believe that the Winter Olympics are not a strategic project for the development that needs a territory like the Pyrenees, but that it is obviously the people of the Pyrenees who must be able to decide on their future. This morning the president also told us, didn't he? That we are opposed to the Winter Olympics, so this leads us to oppose the consultation, and that in reality it is the same as the people of Ripollès, Berguedà and Solsonès think, and that, moreover, this was an irresponsible position because the person responsible at this time is defending the project of the Winter Olympics. So, look, I want to talk to them about democratic responsibility, right? For us, fulfilling a parliamentary mandate is a democratic responsibility. Failure to do so is not a democratic responsibility. And the parliamentary mandate, Mrs Alsina, which you gave very clearly was to agree on the participation of Bergedà, Solsonès and Ripollès in the participatory process and in the consultation, which you have left; the parliamentary mandate says and in the consultation, and one is very clear in this sense. Letting those territories that want to vote for us is a democratic responsibility. Adjusting the territorial scope of the consultation to achieve the desired result, for us this is not democratic responsibility, and makes us feel that this is what they are doing. Look, we're not surprised that the PSC comes out with the speech that came out, opposing the holding of a consultation or other forms of citizen participation, Mrs Moreta, right? You said to us: "To govern is to decide, which the deputy of VOX also said. So, look, it's more for us to rule. To govern is to listen, to govern is to co-produce public policies with citizenry, to govern is to involve citizenry in decision making. For us, ruling is that too. And I said, don't surprise us that the PSC is in this weave. But, of course, you, who, like us, defend the right to self-determination, defend that Catalans and Catalans can vote on our future policy, do not understand that you oppose those territories that want to vote can vote. Why the Ripollès... if the Ripollès wants to vote, why can't he do it? What's the matter, President? We don't understand. It's just that they don't get along. Then, we ask, therefore, that making the decision allow these territories to vote. And I'm not telling him to count the votes in the same bag, that count the same. There are formulas to be able to take into account... because we are aware of the democratic misadjustment that implies introducing three more comarques to the consultation. But look for the mechanism to be able to do it correctly, but this citizenry can vote, because we understand that solutions exist to make it viable. And we are aware that the councillor has been visiting the local councils of these three communities trying to agree on a solution these days. Look, if these comarques have told them they don't want to vote. All right, all right. But we believe that there are at least some communities that have clearly told them that they want to vote. So, if you want to vote, look for the way to do it, find it, and if they do, they'll tend to their side. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.198.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.199.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Madam Counsellor, Mrs Alsina, I would like to make a small reference which I think is important. Today we have heard statements by the Deputy delegate of the Government of the Generalitat to the European Union, Mrs Erika Casajoana and the delegate himself of the Government of the Generalitat to the EU, Mr Gorka Knörr, who are literally immoral, aberrant, comparing the situation of Ukraine with that of Catalonia and comparing Spain with Russia; a real nonsense, a real aberration, which would force you, Madam Counsellor, for responsibility to cease both leaders who have not even the slightest decency to be aware that this comparison is absolutely intolerable. That being said, I certainly find the debate that took place at this meeting curious. We are talking about a proposal to reform a decree law that seeks to reform the law on non-referendum popular consultations, and we have certainly seen here evidence of how contradictory that legal device that you perpetrated a few years ago, which is the right to decide, is. Mr Parés told them that why can't the Ripollès vote if the Ripollès wants to decide. Well, it is very curious that in this decree that you present say that responsibility, competence to convene consultations in defined territorial areas, as it could be in regions or in different..., in a panoply of regions, would be the president of the Government of the Generalitat. It is curious that you accept that, therefore, the mayors of the area do not have the right to decide on matters that may prove to be their own. Here are the contradictions of the so-called "right to decide, which was ultimately only one form, a subterfuge to try to mask the right of self-determination recognized by the United Nations". In this sense, I believe that this decree that you propose is completely unnecessary. It is unnecessary, because you, if you wish, could already use a tool that is at your disposal and that of all the Spanish municipalities, which is precisely Law 2/1980, of the different forms of referendum. If you want to convene a referendum focused on a particular area, on a particular territory, you can, precisely, ask the Government of the nation to agree on formulas to hold a referendum of these characteristics in a part of the territory. That said, and having spoken of the formal question, which is this decree that you intend to adopt today, I would also like to refer to the substantive question, the political question that brings us here, which is basically the celebration of the Winter Olympics in our community and perhaps also in the Community of Aragon. We find it incredible, absolutely incomprehensible, that the Government of the Generalitat has taken such an absolutely unfair position, as contrary to the Olympic spirit as the Government of the Generalitat is taking in relation to our neighbours in Aragon. Aragón is the main trading partner of Catalonia. The Aragonese, the Aragonese citizens, have a special desire to buy Catalan companies, to buy Catalan products, and that is part, let's say, of that space of solidarity and coexistence of which we Catalans are part, which is Spain. And from this point of view, we, from Citizens, believe that it is incredible, it is absolutely intolerable the contemptive attitude that the Government of the Generalitat is having towards the Government of Aragon, and ultimately towards the citizens of Aragon. The call for a..., or the holding of winter Olympic games in Catalonia – and in Aragon, of course – does not depend on the Government of Catalonia or the Government of Aragon, but on the Spanish Olympic Committee. And for that there must be consensus, there must be a will for cooperation, there must be precisely an Olympic spirit, there must be that mutual respect between the two governments. And that, unfortunately, as a Catalan, I regret that it is the Government of the Generalitat that has thrown him to the ground. The Government of the Generalitat is adopting an attitude of putting sticks on the wheels, an obstacle attitude that it does is to prevent a really solid project, a project that is exciting for all the citizens that we live in Catalonia and Aragon, and, ultimately, that it can also dazzle the International Olympic Committee and that our candidacy, the joint candidacy that should be between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Aragon, between Catalonia and Aragon, can go ahead. I regret that attitude so..., of such a low height, of such gallinaceous flight, because it is going to condemn us, unfortunately, to lose a magnificent opportunity for the whole territory, for the whole of the affected regions, and for the whole of our community and the whole of our country. Finally, that attitude is condemning us to miss out on great opportunities and, unfortunately, you do not seem to realize that. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.200.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.201.0	Thank you, President. Well, the first consideration to be made when talking about references or referendums to Catalonia, to present-day Catalonia, is that with the current political situation, any referendum consultation that is done will be by definition a trap consultation, which cannot be done. And it's not because we say it, it's because of his attitude. Tortosa did a legal consultation, perfectly defined, which had a round and end result. As it did not come out what you wanted, they decided to disobey, and consequently to initiate with various subterfuges the will not to accept the result of that referendum consultation that was made to Tortosa. It is metaphysically impossible to accept a referendum or referendum from someone like you, who says that if it doesn't come out what you want to do. I know it's from Sesame Barrio, but I suppose you'll find that we're not as strong as accepting a referral or a consultation from someone who says they'll only accept it if it comes out of what you want. It is the history of Catalonia today, and we are exactly as we are for this issue. This initial consideration, which I think is relevant, and which shows up to what point for you the consultations and referrals are not because people feel free, but to refer to what you have previously decided, as in authoritarian systems, to raise some generic questions. Is it necessary to introduce mechanisms of civic participation complementary to the representative democracy we live in? A priori, yes – a priori – but also depên. Why in this question and in many more likely to be submissive to the vote of the citizenry they say systematically that they do not? It's been explained before by some doorman. Is it necessary to replace the responsibility of the rulers by transferring their internal disputes to the citizenry? Not here. He also explained himself. It's what you want. Why do they want it? So why are they submitting this modification to justify an absurd query for some winter games that they don't know what to do. And as they don't know what to do and they know that this consultation will prepare it because it turns out you don't, because you only do consultations because it turns out that you want, then it's the problem of over. We already know them. We've met in this house. We already know each other, and we know where you see each other. This is further compounded by a more worrying suspicion, and it is that you want to use this modification to make modifications that serve you to consult that are now unconstitutional. Therefore, the sum of all these arguments justifies the idea that, obviously, we would vote not to this modification that they present today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.202.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Fàbrega has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.203.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies, deputies... well, today we are debating and voting on a change in the law of non-referendum popular consultations. A law decree that is essential in order to be able to consult the Pyrenees on the Olympic Winter Games of the Pyrenees 2030. In fact, without this decree there is no legal basis for us to make this consultation, which, as Councillor Alzina recalled, is a parliamentary mandate; as is a parliamentary mandate to support the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees 2030. This decree, as you have explained, allows this or any other consultation at the supramunicipal level, in more than one municipality, in a region or in a vegueria. Consulting the citizenry is always good, and depending on the affects it is good that can be done in a territorialized way. If democracy and that's what this decree was about. Many thanks, she would advise, for the interest in the reform of the law and for all the work done by the open government to bring it forward. Not everyone likes democracy, not everyone likes it because it's a citizen's visit and that it's the one that makes the decisions; unfortunately, we are quite conscious, in this country. This decree will allow us to consult the Winter Olympic Games at one, six or nine locations, or whatever is decided, this does not mark this decree. What is clear is that if this decree is not approved, it will not be possible to do so in any region, and we will not have any consultation. Mirin, as you know, I soc del Pirineu, Soc de la Seu, therefore, de l'Alt Urgell, de la vegaria de l'Alt Pirineu and Aran, one of the 74,000 inhabitants of the vegaria. And here today to the defensehouse that I must approve this decree law in order to be able to consult the Olympic Games in the six districts of the Old Pyrenees and Aran, and in the three districts of the Ripollès, Solsonès and Bergedà. We are interested in the participation of the 39,000 inhabitants of Berguedà, the 25,700 of Ripollès and the 13,500 of Solsonès. And we're interested, because I'm convinced that if we explain the project to them, they'll be next to the opportunities that you offer them. Together for Catalonia we defend this for two reasons: u, because we believe in democracy and that all affected areas must have a view, and, two, because we believe in the project, in the opportunities and in the arrival of the Pyrenees 2030. And that's why we want to subdue the scrutiny of the people of the Pyrenees. Together for Catalonia we have always defended the opportunities that these games can bring us to the Pyrenees and that these opportunities justify the challenges that its organization involves. So it was on our election program, with which we won, of course, the elections to the Pyrenees, and so it is on the accord of government with Esquerra. That you don't do us through the consultation, that you don't do us by explaining the project of some Olympic games that the IOC requires to be without any extra equipment that we don't already have in operation; some games where no road infrastructure is built that we don't have planned; some games that don't require creating ad hoc Olympic villas; some games that can be done right there where winter sport is done without changing practically anything, like our Pirinaeus, and some games where spending will be assumed all for the respective games. But some games that can speed up all the investments that the Pyrenees and the Pyrenees need: at the road level, all those that we already have planned; at the Internet connectivity level, fundamental for job opportunities and improving the services of the Pyrenees and the Pyrenees, and some games that can speed up the creation of social and affordable floors for our people. Some games that, with the Pirinaeus brand, with the impact of the Pirinaeus brand, can benefit all the productive sectors of the Pirinaeus, diversify and deseasonalize activities and, therefore, improve labor contracts for our young people. Some games that will give a definite boost to winter sports, to our sportsmen and to our clubs, with the best of the technology centers, that will impact our stations and to our municipalities of mountain, generating economic activity of the hand of the sport, as we have to His d'Urgell with the technology centers of piracy and skiing of the fields at the Olympic Park of the Segre, arrived from the Barcelona Games 92. I'm here and I'm here. I'm here and I'm here. Arrival and opportunities for the Pyrenees. And of opportunity, as you well know, the Pirinius doesn't sound like us. I'll insist on it again, won't I? – I can't help feeling the Seu –, the example of the Parc del Segre: an energetically sustainable facility that complements elite sports activity, world-class competitions, tourism, urban park and energy generation, one of the main economic motors of the Alt Urgell. We knew how to do the 92 and we'll know how to do the whole of the Pyrenees by 2030. We want to do it right, we want to do it right, we'll do it right, we can do it right. And we're Catalans! We'll be all right. But to do so we need the complicity of the Pyrenees; with a first step, which is to consult it. And that's why the first step is to approve this law. Today, like every day, is a good day to claim the català. And, therefore, I would like to recall the great Ovidi Montllor, who said: "There are people who do not like him that he is spoken, written or thought of català. It's the same people who don't like talking, writing or thinking. So that's similar. There are people who don't like it that is doing the consultation of the Olympic Games. It's the same people who don't like to be consulted. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.204.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.205.0	Thank you very much, President. President, councillors... The content of the decree that we are now voting on is relatively simple – the councillor has perfectly explained it. The law of non-referendum consultations and other forms of civic participation is amended, so that the Government is empowered to convene consultations that affect more than one municipality, region or vegueria. And this change is to solve a problem or a problem that does not initially foresee for the law of consultations, which is the possible need, the possibility to stimulate consultations of supraterritorial descent, but that without necessarily affect and summon to the whole territory of Catalonia. Until now, the law allowed us to convene consultations from a municipal or an area... at the national level. And now, therefore, what we do is open up the possibility that this is done in determined territories, but not strictly municipal. And therefore, it corrects a fault, and we believe that this is positive. Explaining the object of the decree, this modification of the law of consultations, we would also like to make two points, we believe, necessary, above all for some appreciation, we believe, incorrect that have been made. From the outset, highlight the legality of this amendment and of this decree. Law 10/2014 is improved and citizens' participation is promoted more; the competitions collected in the Statute of Autonomy, in concrete terms in Article 122, are seized, that what it does is to recognize the exclusive competence of the Government of Catalonia in the matter of popular consultations, and, moreover, to the extent that there have been judicial sensations of the State that it does allow referendums as a mechanism of participation and participatory democracy. Still another point. The decree is also respectful – and so has the councillor – with local autonomy. In no case is the capacity of the municipalities to continue to convene, therefore, consultations or supra-municipal meetings replaced, but what makes it complementary with a new form of participation or consultation on the part of the Government of Catalonia, to encourage consultations in a supra-municipal territory, in the field..., beyond a region or a vegueria. And that's what we think is positive. That said, we also want to refer to the context that makes this decree necessary, which is the governing agreement of the 3rd of August, of impulses to the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games of the Pyrenees - Barcelona in the run-up to 2030. An impulse and an agreement of government that is contingent upon the need to call a consultation to the citizenry so that the citizenry is pronounced. And this is also a mandate from this Parliament, from the Parliament of Catalonia, where the Esquerra groups, the Juntes groups, the CUP and the commons have endorsed it and we have spoken from this Parliament: to urge the Government to convene a consultation. And now what's done is to approve the mechanism to complete this mandate, make it possible. Other groups see as participative democracy neither there is nor is it expected. We've seen it in this band above all. I'm not talking anymore..., or I'm obviously talking about the PP trio, VOX and Ciutadans, who seem to have allergy to anything that are direct citizen participation mechanisms. But we have also seen it with the Socialist Party today, every more conservative time, every time more aligned to the right in its proposals; it prefers to eliminate any mechanism of civic participation in the mechanisms of public decision-making. That I didn't hurt Mrs. Moreta, in this case. The government is doing the job, working the project, agreeing with the territory, approving this modification of the law of consultation, also completing what the mandate of this Parliament says. And we don't give lessons of participation or whether to rule is to decide, at least as long as I don't return to the right's consent to decide how they had a few years ago from their own party. But we still understand the position of those who have voted in favour of consulting the Winter Olympic Games, and who have even claimed that it is possible to extend more areas of the trades that you are currently considering being called, and that these formations, like the common ones, are not now in favour of this validation of this decree, because this is absolutely inconsistent. They can't ask the Generality to do a consultation and then drop the necessary mechanisms to be able to do this consultation and subject it to the territorial scope. We are not debating, in this decree, in this validation, the territorial scope of the consultation. Today we are debating and voting on the possibility of holding the appropriate mechanism to convene this consultation. And this is the first step. And the second step, which is already being done, is to seek territorial consensus so as to see how this consultation is to be done in the best possible way and what is to be the territorial abst. But using today's vote or your own consultation as a political weapon of wear and tear is doing a weak favor, precisely in the exercise of participatory democracy that we want to preserve all. In fact, we are quite clear: democracy strengthens its exercise. Unlike the Spanish State, which has a flimsy ballot box, we believe in the deepening of civic participation and believe in it as one of the main axes of the republican values of our political action. That's why we will support this validation of the decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.206.0	So the debate is over, so let's proceed to the vote now. They know that, in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it will be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. [[Widow's remorse. Pause]] Let's proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2022. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? You're not going? [[Pause.]] We take note of Mr Munell's eschode. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not here, either? [[Pause.]] Didn't Mr. Jubert work either? [[Pause.]] Now we'll give the number of seats because we have them present for our own votes. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, these two escons haven't even marked their presence, have they? It doesn't work. So the votes that appear on our screen, in the absence of compatibility with these two votes, are 71 votes in favour, 58 votes against. Therefore, with the result of the vote, Decree Law 2/2022 has been validated. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law has been validated, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be dealt with as draft law. [[Pause.]] So, so, there's... there's no petition, and therefore, this decree will not be dealt with like the bill of law. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 9/1993 of 30 September 1993 on Catalan cultural heritage for the preservation of emblematic establishments (continuation)]] [[202-00028/13]] So let's move on to the fifth item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the proposed law amending Law 9/1993, the Catalan cultural heritage, for the preservation of emblematic establishments. In accordance with Article 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for submitting submissions is... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask the deputy to get away from the chamber doing it quietly and quickly. We shall proceed to the debate on the joint papers presented by the parliamentary groups. In the first place, the leading parliamentary groups will intervene, following the order of entry of their statements to the register and, later, the groups that have not submitted statements will intervene. The facts are that the Junts Group for Catalonia, in the end, has withdrawn its reviews. Therefore, according to the agreement for the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, this turn of action will be two minutes for each parliamentary group. It has, therefore, the word, to defend the items to the articulate presented, the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.207.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, as I have already explained to the House, my parliamentary group would support this proposal for law, but also, as we have already done, we would present papers with the objective of giving maximum guarantees because of the tiny changes or small changes that might be applicable. In this sense, and before entering the content of the items, I would like to thank Congressman Ruiz for his predisposition and good understanding in accepting these items. Some items that go in a two-way direction. On the one hand, to give more scope to the assemblies in the event of a change in activity, given that a three-month period had been set up, when we believed that in some cases a period of six-months would be more justified, since it would not be dealt with only by a question of tempteig and retraction, since the previous law would raise a two-month period– we would understand that with these three-month periods it would be sufficiently covered–, but we believe that there are other cases where other institutions can try to intervene to save the activity that was due to end. For example, the lack of a generational relay, where, in the case of Barcelona, the agency of Barcelona Activa could enter to try to work on this. And we wanted to give more scope so that the Administration could guarantee the protection of this emblematic trade. And the second point, with the objective of conditioning and protecting, is to try to go a little beyond the protection of the walls, of the space, and trying to go to protection..., to which the object for which that space was protected, is to, say, condition the change of use to a report of the competent Administration to ensure consistency with the reason for which it was protected. As I said in the last intervention, and I started saying today, I repeat that this proposal of the law, for us, is short. And it remains short, basically, because, in our view, it does not address two of the structural areas that affect the continuity of emblematic trades. On the one hand, immaterial assets; it is to say, to protect not only the physical, but also its uses. I, on the other hand, the economic model and the city. I'll start with the first one. The concept of immaterial heritage, in fact, is taken up by UNESCO in the Paris Convention of 2003, and, more or less, in a quick way, defines it as the "joint of practices, representations, expressions, knowledge and abilities, as well as instruments, objects and artifacts, cultural spaces associated with them, which the communities, groups, and in some cases individuals recognize as being apart from their cultural arrival, and add to them and provide a sense of identity and continuity. I don't know if they have to remember, but in my later intervention I spoke to them that the loss of these trades is not just a personal drama for the more than two-hundred families that are behind them, but that it is also a collective problem, it is a problem of the city, of the community. Because behind the loss of these activities that define and mark our city, it also loses part of its history, its specificity, its identity and what makes it special. I lose, in summary, part of this concept of identity and continuity that UNESCO talks about when it talks about immaterial heritage. The past full I spoke to them about the closing of the Herbory of the King, in September of last year, but today, to talk about the uses, I would refer them to two other places: of a band, the Schilling coffee bar, which is located..., which was located on the street Ferran, 23, a space of freedom, culture, oci, trobada, social relations; today it is a Taco Bell. Or also Beethoven House, at Rambla, 97, which today is a currency exchange shop and sending money remittances. I'm telling you in another way, to make you possibly more understanding of what we're talking about, in words of a friend and architect. I suppose everyone knows the project of the Block House, driven to the Second Republic by the group of architects GATPPAC, one of the paradigmatic examples of the first rationalist architecture in Catalonia, an urban, social and architectural referent to our country. Is anyone imagining the Block House with a use that is not for which it was thought and designed? A social use, a residential use? Is anyone imagining it as an office space? So that's what we're talking about: not just protecting the walls, but protecting the content and the reason we're protecting it. A debate, that of the protection of the uses of immaterial heritage, that we believe is a decisive part in this debate of protection of the emblematic trades. A decisive piece that, because of its depth and complexity, we believe that we can't solve it either outside the space that surrounds it or not do it to the leugera. It needs rigour, a rigour that allows us to address the complexity of which we spoke and which we believe should be raised not here, but in the framework of the legislative process that has begun the Council of Culture of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And the other factor that I was talking about is the city model and the tourism and economic model that supported it. And here, with the PSC companies, we're probably not going to find as many ending points as we can find so far. And it is because you are responsible for the economic, tourism and trade policies of the city of Barcelona. And they are policies that, in one band, fill the protective mouth of proximity trade and emblematic trade, but, as we have seen, they are based on a monoculture of mass tourism that, in fact, is concentrated in Citat Vella, and it is precisely in Citat Vella and Eixample where the eighty per cent of the emblematic trades of our city are concentrated. A tourist pressure that expels the barcelons and the barcelons and transforms the city, distorting it until the point that, as the journalist Clara Blanchar collected to an article from El País de l'any 2002, there were tourists who asked "what time did Ciutat Vella stop? , because the whole as a theme park, the whole as a museum in the free area. But I ask myself: a museum, of what? , if the difference and the special and motivates his visit we are allowed to tanqui or is destroyed. The protection of emblematic trade goes from all this, from economic proposals to help trade cope with abuses of loguers, such as this week we have seen that a hundred-year-old barricade, the Thousand, is affecting the continuity of its business to a loguer that folds the current loguer. And, in this sense, we have to say that we do not see them as much as we do with the purchase of premises, that it is a measure already existing in the Barcelona City Council, nor with the establishment of measures that put in value these trades in the same touristic flows with specific routes. They don't have a reactivation plan for the premises they've already shut down. We see no measures to help trade cope with the change in consumption habits, to help them in promotion, competitiveness or digitalisation. Not to say, before the problem comes together, that they do not have an alternative model and that it is sustainable at the urban, social, environmental and economic levels. In summary, let us hope that this change that we will approve today will be useful in some concrete case, that we do not doubt it; but it is not from anywhere that the sector or the city of Barcelona needs. Close cross-cutting and more ambitious measures in this sense. The other day I was quoted by the doctor in Geography Francesc Muñoz, and today I would also like to end with an appointment of his free Urbanization. Common landscapes, global places, which I think is what we can... we should be inspired by the protection of identity, history, heritage, trade and people living in a city. He says: "The city can and must be much more than a clean, shaved and polished surface. It can and must be much more than a transparent film through which to see reflected the own smile and smile of those who know and can smile. The city can and must be the place where we can recover the variety of gestures lost during the path to banalization and the identity loss that we are living. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.208.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.209.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Mrs. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late. As already demonstrated in the past plenary session, from VOX we will always be absolutely in favour of concrete and appropriate measures that protect, ensuring the protection of cultural heritage as a fundamental element of the configuration of our history and our identity. We will always support initiatives aimed at ensuring the preservation of all material and intangible assets with objective and consolidated historical value. What we will never agree on is to support empty content initiatives based on circumloquies, sterile and inconcrete measures that are a toast to the sun or, worse, an attempt to give cat for hare, as is the case with the proposed law presented to us by the Socialist Group, amending articles 21 and 71 of the law on cultural heritage. So we will not bite the hook with which you want to make us believe that you are very committed to the respect and memory of our cultural heritage. And we won't sting for several reasons. First, they try to sell us as a great novelty that all architectural and activity changes of any emblematic establishment are communicated at least three months before they take place. Otherwise, they shall be considered as a minor infringement. Frankly, as I said at the previous plenary session, it makes me blush to remind you that at present, when you intend to make an architectural change or also of activity, of use, in an emblematic establishment, the first thing you have to do is ask for a consultation prior to the council, which informs you if the establishment is listed within the Register of Cultural Goods of National Interest or in the Catalogue of Catalan National Cultural Heritage, and may also be considered as a good without special cataloguing. Once its category has been confirmed, the person concerned will have to prepare a technical project adapted to the conservation of the interiors, the facade, if appropriate, and also of the activities allowed, to present it to the Administration – usually it is the city council, can be the council, also, district – and to wait between one or two months to obtain the permission of works or the license of activity. So my question is: what does it matter that the change is communicated three months before its supposed execution? What do we gain with regard to the protection of the emblematic establishment if no modification is allowed until the city council grants the permit following the detailed study of the technical project? Secondly, another reason. And, as a result of what I have just said, there is no point in raising to the category of minor infringement the fact of not communicating the changes three months earlier, bearing in mind, as I said a moment ago, that the only thing that will make the changes possible is the granting, the obtaining of an activity license that will only be granted by the city council if the technical project respects the category of the establishment. I mean, what you're pursuing, even if it's veiled, is, honestly, collecting for collecting. As if we did not have enough to bear the fifteen own taxes that already exist in Catalonia, and with the prices of electricity and gasoline by the clouds, in historical maximums. By the way, since we are talking about infringements and amounts, its two modifications are so inconsistent and also so superficial, we could say, that I would even dare to tell you that the amendment of Article 73.1 of this same law on Catalan cultural heritage would be much more productive, updating the amounts of sanctions, since in its wording it still refers to pesetas rather than euro. That would be more productive, we understand. Thirdly, they are wasting our time, sincerely, in their attempt to justify working with parliamentary frenzy by presenting a proposal for a law that I have already shown is rachytic. Let me remind you that during this parliamentary term thirty-three proposals for legislation have been registered with the Bureau of Parliament. The PSC has presented eight; Republican Left, In Comú Puem, the CUP, three; Citizens, two; Junts, one; the Mixed Group, none. Some joints – three specifically – of Esquerra, PSC and Junts ; and another joint by all parliamentary groups except VOX. The VOX Parliamentary Group has presented nine proposals for law – I repeat: nine proposals for law – solidly argued. And despite being VOX the party that has put forward the most proposals for law, the Bureau to which you Socialists are a party has prevented any of the nine from being substantiated. In that they do work seriously, in applying a totalitarian anti-democratic cordon to those who do not think like you. [[Some applause.]] Finally, a reflection: but how will we rely on its supposed sensitivity for the preservation of all material and intangible assets of our cultural heritage, regardless of their origin and authorship, if they manipulate history at their will? I'll explain myself. Eighty-three years ago, the Civil War ended. Reconciliation between the Spaniards on both sides was achieved a long time ago and this was possible because politicians left history in the hands of historians, with the intention of not repeating mistakes. Also understanding that any event should be analysed from the perspective of its own time and of the alternatives that really existed, not those that would have been desirable. However, in 2007, Rodriguez Zapatero began to do politics around this tragic historical period, as well as other previous dates, using and underestimating the feelings of so many victims and family members. The victimist approach of the left has occupied a dominant position in the postulates of political correction, creating the movement of historical memory, with political motivations and in order to confront the Spaniards, categorizing some as good and others as bad. In conclusion: gentlemen of the PSC, please legislate with concrete proposals, adjusted to reality, sensible, objective – I repeat: please. Do not blind them to quantity, but to quality. Of course it is necessary to protect the exterior and interior architecture of emblematic commercial establishments, as well as their traditional activity, since these commercial activities have shaped our history and, therefore, are elements that make sense to our peoples and our cities, protecting our identity. And the way to achieve this is by rigorously managing the granting of activity licenses from municipalities or county councils, speeding up administrative procedures and updating the cataloguing of cultural goods of national interest and cultural goods of local interest. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.210.0	After defending the items in the joint, the parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. The first word is on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.211.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Now, after this advertising falcon, we'll go back to talking about serious things. A thanks, first of all, to the councillor and to the team of his councillor for the final agreement that we have reached and to the good predisposition; to the Group, also, of the Republican Left, to Mr Villalbí, many thanks, and also to Mrs Artadi, for the good predisposition to be able to reach a definite agreement, as it has been. I think we've finally come to a good proposal. We've come to a good deal to get what we've marked with this law proposal, haven't we? , which was to protect the emblematic establishments, to protect the singularity, therefore, commercial that precisely contribute to these historical establishments, these emblematic establishments. We said it fifteen days ago, unfortunately, so globalization, speculation, the rise in the prices of the logger, they are clear threats, aren't they? , to the continuity of this type of trade. And, therefore, it is also true that the company's own demand for consumers and consumers has also caused the trades to be short-lived or long-lived over time. And it is true that, unfortunately, every time there are more and more establishments of great global brands and that they cause a homogenous image of our trade and, therefore, disparate the commercial singularity of our peoples and cities. And hence the need for public powers, public administrations, therefore, to work to preserve and promote the continuity of these emblematic establishments, both for what it does to physical space, right? , the continent, as the first commercial activity developed there. And, therefore, it is true that the law already protects what would be the physical part, what it is..., the continent, in the sense of the obligation to preserve this physical space, but it also means acting on the activity and equipping us with mechanisms that allow this protection. I also said fifteen days ago to the previous plenary, in the intervention, when I presented this proposal of law: the emblematic trade is obvious that it is cultural heritage, both material and immaterial; it is witness to our past; it is also a factor of identity of our peoples and of our cities; it is also a trade of proximity; it contributes to environmental sustainability and also to social cohesion; it is a barrier, it is a city; it also generates more friendly cities, more cities for people, and also, as an important fact, it is also a touristic attraction of the first level, and it is a trade, moreover, well valued, both for what it does to its quality and for what it does to its singularity. Surely what we approve of today has already been said before, so it is certainly not enough, but without any doubt it marks the path, which is an important first step in this will to protect this commercial heritage. There will certainly be other actions on the part of other administrations, and specifically and especially the joint ventures there where there are competitions in the promotion of this type of establishment, in the fiscal policy that can have a joint incentivities, in bonuses. And here, how did you make reference to the Barcelona Assembly, so concretely how did the Barcelona Assembly do it, right? , that they are also a driving force, precisely, of this proposal of law; a municipal government totally compromised in the bet and in the struggle for the preservation of historical and emblematic establishments. There have been a number of different actions, but the Barcelona Assembly Government has recently presented a measure of government for 2021-2024, precisely with this intention, with different actions that are collected in three lines of action: preservation, promotion, and the competitiveness of these emblematic establishments. Proposals such as linking design schools to emblematic trade, or a trade program also addressed to the schools, integrating tourism marketing into the strategy of communication and promotion of the emblems, customizing follow-up to the holders of this type of trade, acquiring also emblematic premises to guarantee its continuity, subsidies also for the emblematic trade, etc. So, with the change that will be approved today – and I hope that's the way it is, right? – in addition, with the actions that can be fostered by the joint ventures within its competitive framework, I am convinced that they will help, and much, to preserve this commercial and cultural heritage. And for what he does to the papers, as he said before, good predisposition, good will, and I think that, besides, it's a good deal, finally, that we've come to, right? And, therefore, once more to aggravate, as I said, both to the councillor and to the different parliamentary groups, Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya, because, without any doubt, I believe that it is an important step and that, moreover, the thought that we have finally agreed, therefore, is obvious and, as the representative of Esquerra Republicana also said, is a step further beyond the initial proposal and, therefore, in this totally correct sense, in the sense that the change in the use of these cultural assets of local interest would be the emblematic establishments..., therefore, that this change of use should be authorized for the joints or joints of locals in the case of small joints. Therefore, here is given a protagonist role in the gatherings, which in the end are also the first interested in maintaining the uniqueness of their commercial fabric. And together for Catalonia, therefore, thank you for the emena, which has finally also been withdrawn; which we also appreciate, which you have withdrawn, because it is obvious that you are far more than what was proposed by the law, right? , hinder in other articulates of the law of Catalan cultural heritage, which surely would require – surely – a much deeper reflection and much more in its globality, right? , in the discussion of the marc of a new law. And, therefore, here also place the councillor to push and pass on this new law of immaterial assets, which, surely, the proposals of Junts for Catalonia that refer to the items that have finally withdrawn..., I am convinced that in the mark of this new law we will certainly agree. All right, all right, Thank you very much. And thank one more time, therefore, that I can pull forward this proposal of law with as much consent as possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.212.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.213.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, let me start this intervention talking about Alcarras, this municipality of the region of Segria that has now become so well-known, right? , it's so..., that we have now known it for this film of the award-winning Carla Simon, which puts in value also an emblematic activity, an economic activity of food production, of agricultural production. But I would like to talk about Alcarrás, talking about the house of Vallmanya, this former property of the family of President Macià, because, although this house is not a trade of which this law we are debating now wants to protect, it is a protected heritage element as a cultural good of local interest that is growing, that falls into pieces; it is already a col·lapse and falls into pieces before the impotence of movements and organizations that curse to save it, and despite that to this very Parliament, to the Committee on Culture, a few months ago, we approved a motion for a resolution to approve that it is protected, right? , that we can truly protect this house, this good of local interest that they are, that has a very important value. And they spend the months and there's no urgent action, no measure of how much this degradation. I make this point, because what remains very clear is that protection is not guaranteed, heritage protection is not guaranteed. As we have now, with the laws we have now and with the execution of these laws, we approve things, but things don't happen. We will vote in favour of the law we are debating today and of the reports. But, as we said the day before, we think that what we are discussing today is a very small, very concrete, minimum, precise detail of what is to be a general change in the law on the protection of material assets, what is to be the development of a law on the protection of immaterial assets, and, all in all, an urgent legislative need to resolve, both because of this aspect that I had to say what it is for us to declare... Because I have set the example of Vallmanya, but we could put drawings and drawings of heritage elements from all over the country that we are and are not able to protect. And, therefore, here you need to see how that works because you can really protect yourself. But not only because of this fact, but also because this specific protection of traditional commercial activities that we are debating today has to do with a concept of culture linked to community activity and the preservation of the experiential landscape, to emotional memory. And these are modern, current concepts, in a law of protection, concepts that do not completely reverse the law of 1993, which is in force. And it is obvious that a law of heritage protection that is forged, that is to be forged in the 21st century, needs to develop these concepts in an extensive way, essential to give response to the needs of today's society. Why have we already proven that the lack of this value, which exceeds protection, we would say, with more technical criteria, right? , within the territory, so it's another element that causes a lot of vestiges to be destroyed, not to protect a lot of landscapes or the way to protect it doesn't take it into account. The protection tools we have now do not protect many of the movable and immobile or immaterial elements that society currently agrees to protect. And because this new dimension that affects the landscapes and the living and emotional memory and community of places is not present in the law of 93, so we, counsel, are in a hurry and we think that, well, this today, therefore, we will obviously approve it, but it is a very small detail. We also said when we presented the proposal that seeks to protect commercial activities from already protected commercial buildings because they are emblematic. We thought we might have included the preservation of other activities, such as industrial or agri-food, or might have developed a little more the concept of emblem. And they will say to us: "So why have they not submitted papers? And we didn't exactly do it because, at the time of deploying them, how the look we're looking at is this look from a different concept, right? This law is so sharp that we thought it would be better to leave it for as soon as the new law is approved. Before I finish, I would like to say one last thing, also reaffirming..., that we have already said in the other..., when they put forward the proposal, and it is that the general expert who respects, apart from the heritage, the general expert who learns this law, bound to protect a manner of traditional trade, of proximity, that makes bars, that makes community and that can preserve itself or yes from the predatory dynamics of the free market, is something that is also very much per side of this little protection of the emblematic elements. And we think it's very important that this proximity trade, which gives life to the barrel and vile, that it's vital for a model of sustainable society and that it has a lot of problems to survive – very much – before every crisis..., with the covid, now with the consequences of any..., just the travel of transport, any element that touches the supply, so it's an element that puts in danger many times this small trade, isn't it? There are many problems to survive, but above all because it is not protected in a neoliberal system dominated by fierce capitalism that you in other cases defend. This model, let's say, more ferotian capitalism, you are also defending the state. So, it seemed to us that this was a contradiction that needed to be reread, especially because many times the public policies that are due to the term in the municipalities – now was Barcelona, but we could mention many municipalities in the territory – where large commercial areas proliferate, which are often the ones that bury these small businesses, many times are facilitated, these commercial areas, for municipalities where you are also ruling. And, therefore, it seemed to us that it was also an element that needed to be placed here on the table. We will vote in favour of the bills, of the law, and we ask that the new law of wealth move faster than current. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.214.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.215.0	Thank you, President. Well, maybe we'll repeat some of the things that we've been discussing at the session for the past 15 days, but it seems important to us to sit in the center..., position ourselves, right? , not only do we position ourselves before the papers presented and this law modification project, but above all the position in relation to the objective, which is the protection of emblematic trades. In relation to the papers presented specifically, we believe that we are making the modification of a very important law for our country in pieces, don't we? , without really delving into those problems that involve having an outdated law that needs an urgent update that is the result of the work of people also experts in heritage and entities, collectivities and veneration. Even though we argue that we will vote in favour of the proposals presented, especially because one of them is about giving more power, more responsibility to the municipalities, we still do not define which uses are compatible with the protection of heritage. We from In Comú Pode, are more on the line of advancing the preliminary draft law for which Law 9 of 93, the law of Catalan cultural heritage is modified in a more comprehensive way. This proposal for a concrete amendment that we are debating today, presented for the Socialist Group, makes the point of the amendment related to Article 21 in a concrete way. Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya, even though these last items were withdrawn, have taken advantage of the documents to modify other aspects of the law, but continuing..., we continue – forgive – without entering into the questions genuinely finding that persons expert in matters of heritage are asking us, such as this integral law which speaks not only of the material, but also of the immaterial, not only to incorporate immaterial cultural heritage and ethnological heritage into a single Catalan law of cultural heritage, but also, precisely, as has also been thought, to update an anachronistic legislation which does not conform to our time, incorporating the new perspectives of contemporary heritage management, much more participatory, much more intersectional and has not yet been implemented in a purely legislative way. We find ourselves in front of a proposal that incorporates updates, but we repeat that it does not go to the root of the question. We need, as ever, transformative policies that respond to the cultural need and, above all, to the Community's benefits of the present-day citizenship. That's why I want to change this law. And it's obvious that we also need to update and improve the effectiveness of the local interest category regime so that I don't go back to passing a case like the Roser de Calella. It happens in other cases, as Congresswoman Sabater of the CUP said, right? With Casa Vallmanya. How we incorporate these aspects so that the heritage, which goes far beyond the physical, adapts to the real needs we have today. We have already commented on this in plenary last week, it is important to distinguish, when we are talking about the specific protection of emblematic trades, that we are talking about two different categories: when there are trades that are owned, that the place is owned by the people who exercise this activity – many times families that have made many decades of this activity – and other times we are talking about trades that are in good standing. And we need different measures and different policies in both cases, don't we? For a band, strengthen the inspector's work, because they preserve the assets in those cases where the property is owned by the families that are managing it, and also provide help for their restoration. And those trades that are to be found, more than that, we have to protect them from the speculation of the price of the winemaker, which makes its activity absolutely impossible. So, we need a specific plan and legislation that allows the premises to be preserved and that can generate a strengthened use for the activities that can be said..., it lasts to term – forgive – in that local, as well as to establish a process of purchasing establishments of special interest to guarantee its continuity. In fact, the deputy of Esquerra spoke of some initials of the Barcelona Assembly. There are many proposals, not just on the part of the same institutions, but also on the part of administrations, aren't there? , and in concrete terms..., and there was also talk of Ciutat Vella and that is why I also put it on the table, the specific initiative that has been promoted for the Ciutat Vella district, of the official protection steps that make it not only a model change, but an economic diversification that makes it possible, today, that there are economic initiatives in the district before this capitalism and this ferotge tourism model, right? , like the salvation of the bookshop Sant Jordi, which for a change of policy today can continue to exercise its work in the district, or the ecomuseum of the Gypsies of the Wax, which has also been one of the initiatives, or the place of top blanket, or more initiatives that go in this line of diversifying the economy. Now, it's also possible that some economic activities that are in danger of real estate speculation and the generality's regulatory trade flexibility are the ones that have allowed this ferotage model to be possible that allows any activity to stand in the way of any emblematic locale. And so, here we have to put ourselves hard to change those who are the fund fears. Why is it very easy to say that the Barcelona Assembly is promoting a determined tourism model, but what is the Generality also doing to fight this tourism model? I don't know if the expansion of the Prat airport model, or the Olympic Games, are precisely political or initiating that vagrant against this tourist model mentioned by Esquerra Republicana. So, we want a law that helps us to age for its sustainability and promote the maximum possible social return of these emblematic trades, of economic activity in general, from a proximity economy. The proximity trade, not just like the establishments... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.216.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.217.0	Thank you. Proximity trading is not just about the establishments that we find at a certain physical distance from our habitats, but about those that provide us with a certain shopping experience, as well as a key vein space for community dynamics; returning to trade where proximity is not a measure of physical distance but a relational one. We therefore reiterate that we will vote in favour of this initiative and of the proposals presented, but we insist that we do not lose sight of the fact that it is an urgent integral update of the law of heritage, that it is working together with all the parliamentary groups and with all the entities and with all the people who are experts in heritage matters, and that we will only advance not only in the protection of emblematic trades, but in the totality of the cultural heritage of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.218.0	You have all the reason, the deputy, to ask, please, silence, for respect to the speaker. Thank you. It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.219.0	Counsel, deputies, deputies, president... if it's true that it's not perhaps the most passionate of themes, I think it's important. And, in this case, you're right that we sometimes don't listen enough to interventions. I simply ask that they can do it without any problem. Today I just wanted to start saying that we are talking about trade and that today we are finishing the process of this proposal of law for which the Socialist Group presented, so this rapid process, which has to do with the opposite, or which has to do with the opposite, to protect the concept of emblematic trade. But in the end, we're talking about trade. We talk about trade and that's pretty important, because... I think, and many times here we have heard that we want to protect a very specific trade, and we also want to talk about the viability, many times, of these trades. I believe that we, like Parliament, as legislators, are often trying to make these emblematic, historical trades, to grow or to be protected through, too, innovative proposals and this added value – which have not been discussed, but added value – which must also be the object of our legislative activity. And we need to be clear about that. It is to say, we must, on the one hand, make it compatible with the protection of heritage, but also with entrepreneurship and private initiative. This proposal, which will possibly be approved today – I think it will be approved; in this you can be reassured, Mr. Ruiz –..., you do so with certain doubts as to whether you will achieve this precisely, to facilitate the business initiatives of commercial character that we have active in the territory. It is obvious that, in this proposal of law, specifically the activities, as he has said, historical, and that they are already collected to the law of trade of 2017 and that they are defined as "the commercial establishment that has carried out the commercial activity, including that of artisanal character, for more than a hundred years in a local or indirect same, and that it has dedicated itself to the sale of artisanal products, traditional or singular. This singularity is important. This proposal for law changes, in fact, the law of cultural heritage, and it does so in an aspect that should facilitate this protection of singularities, and to us seems correct – very insufficient, but correct. Mr. Ruiz has spoken before, too, that many of these activities..., the immaterial heritage that is somehow present in these activities, therefore, has remained thanks to the fact that they have learned, for many years, to adapt to this reality, in principle – let me – liberal, of the offer and the demand, simply, and that, therefore, the only one they should do, in fact, the administrations is to help. But it must not be the administrations that say, many times, who are or who are not the activities that are to survive or not. Here we have, so..., we need to study, basically, whether an activity that we are defending or protecting..., we also need to analyze why it came, after a hundred years, to stay alive. So let us return here to the capacity we have or have to have the administrations to provide tools for innovation or for, say, regeneration, many times, of this commercial reality. Today, obviously, we find ourselves in Catalonia with these commercial places, which are already part of the collective memory and material heritage of the citizenry to many cities and towns, and which have not been able to keep open, many times, or have had to change their activity or shut down directly. That's supposed to mean the string of singularities that we all know, remember, and that we have memory. When we say that it is insufficient, this proposition of law, let's say it because..., yes, so, it makes it easier for..., or in some way invites us or these, say, owners or those regents of activities to communicate any change and, therefore, we will keep track of what is the evolution of this commercial heritage, in this case this historical heritage. But that doesn't help us to know or know which tools we have because these activities may or may not survive. And here we should go a little further. I don't think we should be fooled. We need to reflect on which ones we have to make viable these activities and help some establishments that, when they make these communications, will surely find themselves in a very difficult situation. Let us remember that it is a matter of activities that do not always realize owners – it has already been said; this has already been said before –; sometimes they are owners, but sometimes they are tenants, simply, of a physical space that they want or need to keep these ancient activities in historical places. Let us remember that today – and this is also very certain – local administration already has problems, many problems, many times, to be quick at the time of processing business initiatives associated with locals. It is to say, if it costs us already to maintain historical activities, to start new activities, even though they want to maintain the same tradition, it is becoming very complicated, and it is especially complex in the city of Barcelona. And we have criticized this at the Barcelona Assembly, we have criticized the consistors. And here, therefore, I believe that politics – at least, our point of view, from Ciutadans – of Mrs. Colau is not feeling effective, is not feeling effective enough. Many times it costs to open any economic activity in Barcelona, and this is real. And we're still afraid that with approvals that we have more trouble starting or evolving these kinds of realities. I think we need to be curative at the time of reconciling the protection of material and immaterial assets and private initiative, so that we do not find ourselves with historic sites that are no longer viable or that have had to be closed. And, in fact, we think it is necessary to go further than that in time to reconcile this willingness to protect the assets and freedom of business initiative, with more concrete measures that serve to make effective the economic viability of many projects that will need to be reinvested or simply create mechanisms, because many of these projects, which lead small entrepreneurs, have access to knowledge transfer, developed for, many times, concrete centers, in the form of innovation. And there's enough resources to make them viable. Access to resources and innovation. We also believe – and this has also been said here – that a comprehensive law is needed to protect intangible assets, with a cross-cutting vision that understands these activities as referents, as well as businesses – apart from the cultural, as well as business scope – to help hold many tools. Well, put all this down, the papers that Esquerra Republicana presents to us for us improve the text – in fact, they specify it – because they fall to the reality that the notification is to be made to those competent administrations, which in fact are normally the assemblies. Therefore, apart from announcing, as we have already done in your day, that we would vote in favour of this bill, while it is insufficient, Mr Ruiz – it is insufficient – we will vote in favour of the papers presented by Esquerra Republicana because they are coherent and because we do not have any type of subterfuge and do not invent that if they do or do so, Esquerra Republicana or another group cannot vote in favour of it. I think it's very reasonable and therefore we'll put ourselves on this path of improving this law. Well, since I'm practically done and I have a minute, I think I can make a claim from here. I'm doing it to Mr. Ruiz, who I already did the other day, but, like I'm coming here to talk about my book and... I'll say it. Mr Ruiz – Mr Ruiz – since they have done this and they have this ability to present proposals for law – to us, as they have said before in the VOX Group, they have not left us for the time being to present them; I do not know if there is any problem, but for the time being the Bureau of Parliament does not leave us – they present a proposal for law to eliminate the fines in the trades, the many languages in the trades, because they were created by you, lords of the PSC, during the tripartite. And I think that this, this initiative, that can also go so fast, because the modification will surely be very simple, will also help historical trades and those that are not. Therefore, I invite you – and in this you will have all the support of Ciutadans – to do so. We work for trade, we work for trade in all aspects. We also work for trade when it comes to this linguistic imposition which means that when an establishment is said to be a bakery, I get a fine, and if it is said to fly or feed, no. Thank you, Members, Members, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.220.0	The next word is Ms Elsa Artadi, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.221.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning to everyone again. We're talking about a lot of things today. He referred to us talking about trade, but I think we're talking about a lot more than trade. And I suppose, in the band of the instrument that we're modifying... that's why there's the Councilwoman of Culture, instead of being here the Councilman of Enterprise. And it is that we have our cities, our vile ones, with soul, those in which we care for the heritage, that we value its history, that we do not renounce its identity. Unfortunately, and as much as you've explained to us, this in the city of Barcelona costs a lot of money. Every week we lose a lot of our soul, when we see how the Hivernacle or the Palau d'Alfarrás were degraded, next to the Laberint d'Horta, or the former Flor de Maig cooperative, there in Galvany. That's why we even had to go to the Department of Culture to report asset situations that were protected and that the assembly left behind, while it was degrading. We lose a lot of our soul, if it doesn't support popular culture, replete with entities, our traditions. And also the loss when they tank emblematic commercial establishments that are witnesses of one's coming, expression of our identity, symbols, and also of that singularity that makes – in the case of Barcelona, but of any of the municipalities–..., that makes it different from others that this globalization that imposes a crippling homogenization on all the cities..., that makes them equal, sadly the same..., so does this reaction to avoid it. And that's what we're thanking you for trying to preserve this heritage. I agree with Congressman Ruiz that the assemblies have a lot to do here. That's why we brought it to the Barcelona Assembly. We have asked that you act, that you use and that you update the tools that you have from the time of Mayor Trias – from this almost a year ago – but we have also asked that it is consensual, that it is placed on the table of emblematic trade, because there we are all, but above all there is the sector, the representatives of the sector, of emblematic trades, and that from there we need changes, where we can all participate. Why don't we find ourselves in a situation like the one that all the groups have expressed, from the first one that has intervened so far, that I am the last one, that today we are short, that we could have gone much further there, that we could have made modifications that might not have been present, but that would have served much more, and, above all, that would have been consensual. Because today we will vote for it, because, obviously, anything we bring in favor of protecting the emblems..., we will, but the passes are extremely small, especially now, two years after the pandemic. And we don't think today we're giving more of them, we don't think it's a guarantee that we actually save the trade. We don't say it; the same sector says it, the protagonists say it, the ones who are actually struggling to keep the Persians up. Therefore, it would be hard for us to know that today lies without false illusions, when we really are very short. We don't understand why we had to work this way. We thought we might have done it another way, going through the table, looking for consent, working all folds, instead of running around looking for a picture or a headline. And, on the other hand, today we don't..., bring in ways that really give us what among all of us – because we've all made a very similar speech – we want to do, which is to save this type of trade. "We have information, it's important. Yes, but it's the information we have, we have it in most cases. Before we talked about the case of the oldest barricade in Barcelona, the one that fights to stay in the Fontanella street, but it is that we all know, the situation that is going through, a botiga that is 100 years old, that is the fifth generation. But as far as we know, we don't have enough tools to help them. And, therefore, it continues to feel inoperative simply to communicate it, when we do not have protection tools that allow us to serve other instruments. We won't be able to do it today, but I am sure, because of the speeches that everyone has made, so we can work together to make it possible. The need to authorize the change of activity to us also generates the doubt as to when it will arrive, and it is not a criticism of the deputy, which he himself has acknowledged, huh? That everything we approve of today... that we're too short and that we need to keep working. You need that, don't you? But I don't know how far we'll have the power, if what's the activity we don't protect. We've been protecting what the boot is – and it's been a while and it's been for the BCILs – but what the activity is, it's not. And so, I don't know how far we can have the power to decide what's going to happen and what's not. Member Ruiz said to us: "We, since the assembly, have already presented everything and made it perfect. Home, three years ago they wore the trade registrarship. Three years ago and now – now –, not a month ago, they presented the measure, when you yourselves, in the document you submitted, explain to us that, in five years, the twenty per cent of this fabric has either disappeared or is about to disappear. Therefore, I do not know if it would be the example of the maximum celerity in making decisions in this area. Yes, it is true – and I also share it with other Members who have spoken about the subject –..., the complexities that these businesses have to save, some of which are shared with small business. And we really have a very important repte with the generational replete. Often the children or nets of the first ones who started the business do not want to continue it. And it's family business, and it costs a lot to keep them. The price of the logger is a problem in areas that there is a lot of urban pressure. Consumer needs..., in the case of the barrier is very clear; in the case of requests also pass us, which have changed. But also the competition, I don't know if it's disloyal but certainly unequal, with big chains, big surfaces for the trade that we think most of all, that's the small trade, the botiga we know, etc. And also, obviously, changes in customer habits and facilities, which come from the Internet and online sales. I do want to thank the work of the Department of Culture – which is also very aware of the need to do all this work, which also went beyond its department –, the offer to return with the representatives of the emblems, to continue doing the work that the neighbors, which is the law of immaterial heritage that has already begun to do. Today – and the socialist governor has already explained it very well – we want to move forward, like making a small bridge while doing the work of the immaterial heritage law, because it will still cheat a lot of time and we are at a very critical time. And we want to take advantage of it to move some things forward to make a point, but we understand that work is taking its time, which you are doing, and so we respect that need. But yes..., thank this, the work to make the law of immaterial heritage, that will affect not only the emblems, but the oral traditions, the arts and spectacles, customs and customs, traditional crafts, practices, etc., but also study what more we need to do. And, therefore, this is a more complex job to be coordinated with other departments; see, no? as far as we can get with urban lease laws, with taxation or with the same trade legislation. The law of Catalan cultural heritage, that of 93, was captivated – it was in its moment, but it has been almost thirty years ago – because it also included the protection, conceptually, of immaterial heritage, which forms part of the cultural heritage to be preserved. Now is the time to take a step forward more important, with this law of immaterial assets, that we expect it to be as quickly as possible, that it can also include emblematic trade, this singularity, exceptionality, this traditional character of the same activity and that it gives personality to our cities. We're not the only ones on this slope. In fact, most of the major European cities find themselves before the very need to stop this progressive disappearance of traditional trade. We..., repeat, invite everyone to work with rigour and with the zeal that touches, from the hand of the sector, but without having to run too much to take pictures and pull things forward that know hard that we are so short. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.222.0	After the speeches, we shall now proceed to the vote on the papers presented, and the order of voting will be followed by the order of the papers published in the plenary's file. We shall begin by voting on item 1, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Have they voted or have they not voted? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that when the door light is open and the secretaries touch it, it means that the vote has already begun, and it can't be counted any more. So, have they accounted for their votes? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We shall have two votes left, therefore, to the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] This item was approved, with 117 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We shall now vote on item 2, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote begins. The result of the vote... there are 119 votes in favour, 9 votes against and one person who does not vote... but now he could vote. [[You laugh and you see.]] Okay, so a person who doesn't vote. All right. Mr. Rius has made some efforts to dive over the voting system... [[Rialles.]] We now vote on item 3 of the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. The item was not adopted, with 9 votes in favour, 117 votes against and 2 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the bill's proposal and the joint initiative. The vote begins. The rest of the text of the bill was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 9 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Law propositions]] [[202-00034/13, 202-00035/13 and 202-00036/13]] Let's move on to the sixth item of the agenda, the debate and vote on the proposal for the processing, directly and in single reading before the plenary, of the proposed Law 2/2009 reform law, of the Council of State Guarantees. In accordance with Article 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist and Unit Parliamentary Group for Progress, the Parliamentary Group for the Republican Left and the Parliamentary Group for the Junts for Catalonia have called for the processing in one reading before the plenary of this legislative initiative, together with the proposal of the law amending Law 24/2009 of the Synod of Greuges, and the proposal of the law amending Law 14/2008 of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. According to the criteria established for the Bureau, a first debate and vote are required because the Plenary agrees, if you choose, to proceed with the single reading procedure. The debate must revolve around the enabling assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure and the general value of the text, opportunity, principles and criteria that inform the proposal, following the laws of the totality debate. And also, according to what we agreed on at the next Spokesman's Meeting, this item will be discussed together with items 7 and 8 of the order of the day, and parliamentary groups will have a seven-minute turn for each group to express their positions. In the first place, the proposed parliamentary groups will have the word. There is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.223.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... The good functioning of the country's institutions is a basic question of democratic quality. At this point, we find ourselves in advance of the debate and vote on the proposals for single-reading processing corresponding to the proposals for the law amending Laws 2/2009, 24/2009 and 14/2008, of the Council of State Guarantees, the Syndic de Greuges and the Antifrau Office of Catalonia, respectively. The three regulatory changes aim to reduce the duration of the mandates of those responsible for these statutory and taxation bodies. Specifically, of the new years that until now provide for these laws to six years, as well as general criteria, and also with the criterion of unifying the duration of mandates of these different organs and with the impossibility of re-election for a mandate immediately after the exercise of the mandate. The clerk of heavy goods and the director of the Anti-Fraud Office..., will be, therefore, limited, his mandate, the duration of his mandate, six years. And, in the case of the State Guarantee Board, a new transitional arrangement is in place to articulate the operation to recommence the rate or partial renewal system of this statutory board, i.e., the six members appointed for the Parliament, renewed for half every three years, and appointed for the Government, once every two years. For our group, these changes respond to the will and compromises, through agreement and pact – and we want to put this issue in value – to work to ensure the functioning of our country's institutions. We understand, as I said, as a basic and substantive element – and so we have manifested ourselves from the principles of this legislature – to move forward in agreement with the renewal of the tasks of the pending institutions which it is necessary to renew and, today, also at the time of adopting the necessary legislative measures and changes to improve its functioning and facilitate it or, better said, to help prevent it from being reproduced in a future situation leading to a blockade or to the impossibility of renewing the charges when it is near. For this reason, we believe that we need to improve the laws governing the functioning of the Guarantee Board, the Greuges Syndicate and the Directorate of the Anti-Fraud Office with shorter mandates – again six years ago, as I said earlier – which therefore do not coincide with the duration, at least theoretically, of the legislatures to ensure the necessary independence of these institutions. I, too, say it, changing it to the rhythm of the legislatures, and, therefore, untying it from the possible parliamentary majorities of every moment. Renewing the tasks and adapting the regulatory standards is a democratic quality requirement of our political system and also a guarantee for the city as a whole. These organs, these institutions, are – and we must never lose sight of – the service of the citizenry. The decisions of the Board of State Guarantees are a guarantee to citizens that what is legal in this house is appropriate to the standard and statutory framework, and therefore it is a guarantee – worth the redundancy – of legal certainty. The Mayor of Greuges, answering the complaints of all the people who are found to be unemployed before the performance or lack of performance of the administrations and watching for the proper functioning of the Administration of the Generality and of the local authorities of Catalonia, also contributes to the good functioning and in favor of the citizenry. And the Anti-Fraud Office, with the tax and prevention tasks on the functioning of the Catalonian administrations, in the same way. They're, like, institutions to serve the citizenry. And the better of their organic function is also, therefore, the better of the service they provide. And the blockage in the renewal of the roles and responsibilities of these institutions is or has been an irresponsibility and injury to the citizenry. This is why I want to put a new emphasis on the value of the pact for the renewal of powers and on the measures, as we are now considering, to improve the regulation of these organs; a cross-cutting pact that surpasses the majorities of government in favour of institutional sense. And we do it as the first group in this Parliament, the first group in the chamber, and as the first opposition group – therefore, assuming this institutional responsibility. As a matter of principle, we are convinced that a reduction in the duration of the term of office of these three institutions will promote a better functioning of these, practically aligning these criteria, those that contemplate the law, with the criteria for the protection of the syndicates of hardships of the Venice Commission and, by analogy, with those criteria also transferred to the Council of State Guarantees and the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. And this will facilitate renewal when it corresponds and will therefore improve the democratic quality of the country's institutions, on the basis of sense and institutional responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.224.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.225.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... my intervention will not be able to extend much either, because already the deputy who preceded me explained a little of what this modification of the articles of these three laws was about. Perhaps, yes, passing on a little what is the motif that exposes the very motif of the proposition, when you say that the one that has passed with this enlargement of the functions of these three entities, such as the Anti-Fraud Office, the Greuge Union and also the Council of State Guarantees, has been contrary, perhaps, to the will expressed by the legislator, right? In extending this process of what had been designated at the time. Perhaps the claim, therefore, is only, also, to unify the duration of the mandate of these statutory organs reduce it again to six years, without possibility of re-election. And why is that? I also understand a little something that we have looked at here, in the comparative right, what is happening in other countries. At European level, for example, the syndicate of European hardships, in the case of the Greuges Union, has the mandate that lasts the same parliamentary mandate, i.e., the five years that lasts the legislature. And, therefore, it would be a more reliable representation, at the time of sorting it out, of the will of the citizens, wouldn't it? because it would be parallel, the representation there are of citizens in Parliament, with the representation of these citizens in their organs. The new years there were until now, so... it would be a little contradictory with that, because, of course, we would be talking about more than two legislatures with the same people in their ranks. And, therefore, we understand that this would be a good thing... A little more to say, but maybe we can prepare a little something that will come now, with the actions of the rest of the groups, because we're talking about three very important entities. I remember the company: the syndicate of hardships is in charge of hearing the complaints of the citizenry for the performance of the administrations – we would like to make it short, but I think it is very important and that is why it is also regulated to our great card–; the Anti-Fraud Office..., and above all the Council of State Guarantees, which is the institution of the Generality that old because the Generality's dispositions fit both the Constitution and the State. Well, now that we've finally resolved this situation, which was absolutely necessary, we'd really like it, wouldn't we? , show a little the disgust of..., when we were so much in the appearances to the committee, instead of..., most of the parliamentary groups of this chamber, instead of being interested in the resumes of the people they were presenting, so..., we had a constant attack on a supposed pact that has molested so many people. And I'd like to make it clear to you that there are no Members of the 135... I think that's exactly what they're calling it, don't you? , which is reflected in these organs the majority of this chamber, which is also the majority of the citizens of Catalonia. I would also like to make it clear, when we come here to question these agreements, that since the year 2010 we have not been able to finish a proper parliamentary term in this Parliament, and that it is not precisely because of us, but because of the repression we have suffered in Catalonia since 2010. Or of yourselves, Lords of Ciutadans, who blocked these agreements and did not make it possible in the last legislature. If you question it again, maybe we'll put a look at these benches, because, since they look at Spain, you also see that there is still more incidence there, so, the Syndicate of Greuges..., there the Ombudsman has been more than three years with the expired mandate; the Constitutional Court, some of its members..., four years; the Union of Accounts also, since 2019... So, well, between this and the Lords of the People's Party, who block once and for all the renewal of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, I say... when they come here now, they try to remember that we come to speak today only of this reduction of the mandate, and not of whether there was a pact that they like or not. Today we are talking about institutions that are very relevant to the democracy of our country, as we said – the Greuge Union, the Anti-Fraud Office, the Council of State Guarantees – and, therefore, their democratic salvation also passes because this is renewed when it touches. And, in fact, they've reminded us throughout the legislature once and for all of you. Therefore, from Juntes per Catalunya, faithful to give compliment to the mandate of the ballot boxes, we will vote affirmatively to modify the years of mandate of the institutions to reflect the reality of the citizenry represented in this Parliament. Finally, four years ago today from the imprisonment of our Government and also from the sending of our Government to exile. I want to express my solidarity and that of all gathered for Catalonia to Brian Bartés, who today returns the repression home and has been unjustly sentenced to a year and a half in prison for the acts of Tsunami at Camp Nou, in the protests at Camp Nou. So, Brian, all of our support. We will continue to fight this repression and Junts for Catalonia always – always – will be at your side. Thank you all very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.226.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.227.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is clear that the risk of redundancy of what Mrs Freixa was doing, therefore, in my case, is still greater, because of the fact that we are going to intervene behind the three spokespersons who have come to present this legislative initiative before the Parliament of Catalonia, but not because of this..., logically, we will have to demonstrate our arguments to respect. In this case, as has been said, we are talking about three statutory bodies which have a major role to play – if not, from our point of view, we see it this way – as their priority task is to tax not only the legislative task, in this case, the Parliament, but also the very work of the Government. And from this point of view, any democratic guarantee, any guarantee of the functioning of our institutions, is very relevant. And, in this sense, it is only possible to remember that The Economist went on to qualify Spain as full democracy to democracy with flaws for the fact that he has not yet been able to renew the General Council of the Judiciary; if I do not recall badly, until 1,205 working days is something that he would certainly have us think about, right? And in this case, therefore, there is an important renewal, which is not only to translate – let us hope – into full success in the appointment of people to occupy these positions of relevancy, but also to see with their own duration of mandates, that they become again six years old, and that they retain, as has been said before, the circumstance that they are..., cannot be re-elected. For us it has a point of democratic regeneration, the darkening of these terms. A term of new years in the current context we can all understand that it is excessive; that things change very quickly; that the contingencies are too; that the value of all points of view, technical and moral, also change over time, and that it is logical that these institutions, therefore, are renewed or intend to renew, while the law has always delayed, in a commodified way, with the time they occupy. However, we are convinced that this renewal, that is to say, these six-year terms, which will translate into a better democratic quality and also a better technical quality. There is a specific circumstance in one of the norms that it occupies, in one of the proposals of law that we bring to debate and vote, that it has to see precisely with the Conseil de Garanties Statutarias and with a specific transitory disposition respect to the appointment of its members, that, in this case, trying to do, by virtue of a circumstance that has not been intended, logically, in this legislature, as is the fact that it was not proceeded to the designation in time and form in its moment, therefore, it has derived in a better, from our point of view, from the quality of the election of the members, in which it is asynchronous, that is, it does not coincide, that designation made by Parliament, with that made by the Government. And, from our point of view, this improves the democratic quality at the time of deciding on the composition of these bodies, since it is not so relieving of the strength of the parliamentary forces that make up the government at the time of determining its choice and does not configure – if not, I insist, we see it this way – a monolithic block in these institutions that are of relevance, as I said before. And, in the measure of the possible..., aware of the limitations, because, logically, to make these designations, these choices, must be set up some qualified majorities or, if not, very high, which also for the own..., for the time that today we live in politics and the own fragmentation that we can detect at all the institutions of representation..., cost, many times, add these majorities. And what's more logical, what's more adjunct, therefore, is to look for those complicitys that make this renewal possible in time and form, if not, when the date is closer to the beginning of the legislature..., than not to differ with very long negotiations in the course of this, that make it possible to make a designation at the end of a legislature..., also, or still, we make it clear, four years, always shorter than the duration of the charges that today, with this legislative change, we are in a position to be elected. But, because this is possible, there must be a will and a disposition. And I want... obviously, I want to proclaim with pride the democratic will of our group from the first day, from the first moment, to make a full democratic regeneration in all organizations and institutions. Does this only translate into the designation of all those functions that fall under the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia and the State? Not just. We have proclaimed it, it has been done many times: we have the intention to address, therefore, the debate and the vote in this legislature of a particular electoral law. And we have also approached..., and we have said many times, that we also want to address the updating of the text of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, the Rules that govern this chamber, because we understand that it is essential to adapt it to the current time. In any case, therefore, not only these legislative initiatives that we are presenting today, but also the choice of the functions that depend on them..., I have also made our own electoral law and the Rules need some majorities that must always count on three elements: one of the will, and, in this case, I have made clear our will; another of the honesty between the interlocutors and those who make the pacts at the time of closing them, and trust, and trust is gained day after day, without seeking out advances with subterfuges or with master games or entering through the back door to try to make it happen that in a negotiation you have not been able to..., or you have not been able to pull forward. From our point of view, therefore, these legislative initiatives that we are contributing to enrich the democratic quality of our country, they are in line with the duration of the tasks that in our most appropriate environment – that is, continental and democratic Europe – are established. And, therefore, as we only see bounds and there is no harm, and given that it is something that we must separate, in any case, from the designation of the proper ones, that it is a discussion that I understand we will have more in front of, what we do, logically, is to ask the whole chamber because they trust us in their text. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.228.0	Then, in order to position themselves, the various parliamentary groups have the word. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.229.0	Well, thank you, President. Today, three proposals for legislation jointly submitted by the new Trio Calaveras are put to debate and vote in this plenary session. I don't know if Mrs. Vilalta is around here, who used to mean she likes to do threesomes, threesomes in politics. He was referring to the trio of PP, Citizens and VOX, and I want to say that here he has another trio, the one that make up Esquerra, Junts and PSC, which have presented these proposals to modify the term of office of certain elective positions. In particular, the advisers of the Board of State Guarantees, the director of the Anti-Fraud Office and the syndicate of heavinesses. His office is expected to increase from nine to six years. This seems to us to be a minor modification, but what is powerfully drawing our attention to is that facility that the PSC has recently put in agreement with the separatists in everything. They agree everything together, either to modify the laws or to distribute the high offices in chiringuitos, as sadly we had occasion to check a few weeks ago with the Union of Accounts, the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia or the Catalan Authority of Protection of Dades, three organizations in which the PSC, Junts and Esquerra have placed their friends and which cost us the cold, only in salaries of high offices, of 1_million_and_half_of_euros per year to Catalans – posts in chiringuitos that only serve to return political favors at the cost of plundering Catalans. For today it is the same thing, of chiringuitos, of organisms placed at the service of separatism and that involve an elephantistic political expenditure, superfluous, unnecessary, that is bloody in these moments of social emergency that live Catalonia. That is why from VOX we defend the immediate closure of these three chiringuitos and we will vote against the three proposals of law, because what must be done is not to modify these three organisms, but to close those of a door, because they are doubles that cost us an eye from the face to the Catalans and that, moreover, separatism uses in its desire to permanently destroy the nation. Closing them would mean a brutal saving for the Catalans' pocket, around 18_million_euro per year, and, in addition, the rights and freedoms of Catalans would be better guaranteed by state bodies. And, look, I would tell you that, with which it is falling, closing them is also an obligation, a moral requirement, because it is immoral to demand from Catalans a savage economic effort to then squander their money in parallel structures with astronomical salaries. First of all, look at the Board of State Guarantees, which has an annual cost of 3_million_and_average_of_euros per year, as I say. The Board of State Guarantees has an advisory and opinion-making function that is only mandatory in very few cases – when an appeal of unconstitutionality is brought, when an appeal or a question of competence or a conflict of autonomy of local authorities is brought – which can never be binding, as the Constitutional Court made clear in the ruling of the Statute. This body must be eliminated. And, in the few cases where his opinion is mandatory, an agreement should be signed with the Council of State to undertake this task. This isn't new. Other communities have already done so, such as Extremadura, in 2015, which removed the Extremadura Consultative Council, the same body as the Guarantee Council, from a pen, and signed that agreement with the Council of State. I invite you to read Law 19/2015, of the Assembly of Extremadura, which repeals the Advisory Council, and its brief explanatory statement, which says textually – and cannot have any more common sense –: "The implementation of policies of rationalisation and effectiveness of public resources justify the repeal of the Consultative Council's law without leading to a lack of guarantees of citizens' rights. For that, apply yourselves to rationalising and giving effect to public resources and stop evading Catalans. Secondly, the Greuges Syndic, with an annual cost of €7_million. We have already tabled in its day a motion to suppress the Greuges Synod. Article 54 of the Constitution already regulates the Ombudsman, who defends the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. The Ombudsman projects his guarantee function not only for all Spaniards, but throughout the national territory and in front of all administrations, including the autonomous one. And, therefore, the syndic of Greuges is perhaps the most flagrant case of an unnecessary figure, because it is a duplicity. In addition, the syndic's office costs us the 7_million_euro chiller, as I say, has seventy people placed, and the syndic himself has an annual salary of 138,000_euros, which he has been charging for seventeen years. For more inri, it is also necessary to close it by its fanatical sectarianism, because the syndic always positions himself with the separatist theses, acts as the transmission belt of the Government and always places himself as the syndic of the process and never as the syndic of the people. The Director of the Anti-Fraud Office..., with another annual cost of 7_million_de_euro, as indicated by his own website. We also demand the closure of the Anti-Fraud Office, because its functions could be assumed by the national office or by the structure of the high state inspection, without prejudice to the powers already exercised by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia does not fulfil its task of uncovering fraud. In 2021, he barely used twenty-five per cent of all the annual resources available, a very small implementation figure and quite insufficient for an institution that is trying to pursue fraud and corruption. His inactivity towards the management of the Generalitat de Catalunya is alarming and suspicious. Look, the Anti-Fraud Office, created in 2008, has registered only 2,035 complaints from its inception to 2020. This means that, on average, a total of 169 complaints have been filed each year. If we go to the solved files, the figure is even more scandalous: 1,884 since 2008; therefore, 157 annual files resolved. That is, EUR 7 million per year for 157 cases in Spain's most corrupt autonomous community. In short, VOX will vote against the three legislative proposals, because we demand the immediate closure of these three bodies. In VOX we are going to disarm the state of the welfare of politicians and we are going to recover the state of the welfare of people. Because with this savings of 18_million_de_euro that would mean eliminating these three organisms– and that it is only VOX that demands it without complexes in this Parliament – the following real needs of Catalans could be met, for example: to build 158 houses with a hundred_per_cent of public ownership, to build 316 social rental houses with fifty_per_cent of public ownership or to attend 360,000 visits of primary care. These are our priorities. Yours goes by paying Mr Ribó, Mr Gimeno and the company six-digit annual salaries. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.230.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.231.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. There is someone who is trying to fill this whole debate with a purely technical question, a formal question, little, substantial or substantive. We would like to talk about what, what and who, because we understand that they are three essential elements to hear our position, but also to hear how things are working, which are three propositions of law that seek to reduce the mandates of different organs. You're all right here, aren't you? A priori it can be read as a positive thing, and it is positive to reduce it, and it can be read as an element of democratic regeneration, which has been done... It has been said many times. I think... I've already figured it out, but they've all repeated democratic regeneration many times. It could also be democratic regeneration to address a debate about how the heavyweight syndic is heard, and whether we make a popular vote or that the entities of this country affect who the heavyweight syndic is. But, of course, I understand that the PSC and Juntes, like the rest of them, see what they've done in Barcelona, you don't give them much interest in participating in choosing the syndicate of hardships, which is who backs up the complaints of citizens and many entities. So, well, they're talking a lot about democratic regeneration, but it's a mere question of reducing mandates, not of how to deal with the election of these organs or how to account for here, too, in relation to this, to the citizenry. Therefore, a little coix, that of democratic regeneration, as the argument of this element. Com: single reading and urgency. One reading: if we look at the three proposals of the Law, we could agree that, well, they are simple modifications, and, according to the Rules, it would be unique reading. Okay. Emergency? Is this really urgent? Or is it that it is urgent because so far they have not agreed on the distribution of the cargoes and now they need to do it quickly so that all the re-election of these cargoes takes place? [[Pause.]] It's not urgent. You have more to see with how you ended up arranging these departments. Three proposals of the law that enter a dillum to the six and come late to the table, because he is a seer at the table of the nine in the morning, because he is a seer at the doorman's board of eleven in the morning, because at the end of a week he is a full vagina. Democratic regeneration was the expected motive. Home, a little questionable, that. At the same time, the necessary independence... Someone said: "It is necessary to guarantee the necessary independence of these organs. A little questionable, as things have been so far in the distribution of these charges. And here's when we get to who. In the month of disembarkation, some were outraged and shocked when we spoke of "Republican socio-vergency, and today is the final stage of this three-way pact. Yes, it's the final scenario of this three-step pact and this translation of "Republican socio-vergency." Because Mrs Freixa said: "Four Members are enough. Yeah, but it's what, you know? in September, at the general policy debate, we approved a motion for a resolution which said that the Catalan Parliament considered it essential to make a leap forward in the country's institutional development; for this reason it calls on the democratic political forces with representation to this chamber to, before the end of 2021, unlock the names of those institutions that are pending renewal, placing special emphasis on the institutional bodies with the expired mandate. Five parliamentary groups approved this motion for a resolution. Who's approving the renewal of these charges? Three. And I approve three because there aren't two who haven't even been able to talk to them. Democratic regeneration... if this isn't a three-way deal, getting the two who agreed to make this renewal, to me being explained. Legally, legitimately, on its part, but then it is not a complaint that it is written for having made this republican socio-vergency and having divided the powers of the government, the powers of governance of the public media. A very important thing, in a country that is said to be democratic, to have governance spaces of public media that are democratic, transparent, participatory; but it is divided among three. Norty is more than... or three parliamentary groups are more than five, that's what I see. I don't know, I don't get the same numbers. And up here the moment... some, right? ... there's a government, together for Catalonia and Esquerra, and there's an alternate government, which is called the Socialist Party. I would say to them – and we already told them a few months ago: "I stop using the alternate government. In the background, despite the fact that there is a lot of complaint that in security policies it is seen that the government is paying attention to the CUP – nor should it be –, do not cease to be the tripartite in the shadow. In substantial terms, in this country, the three of them have come to terms with each other all the time. So they don't rule alternately or... they're the tripartite in the shadow, and now they're, and we're clearly talking about it. In policies that serve not to change anything, Republican Left, Together and the PSC agree. To divide the charges, as has always been the case in this country: as has always been the case for the Greuges Syndicate, as has always been the case for the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, as has always been the case for the Account Union..., as has always been the case. So there's not so much change. But, come on, let's get here with three legislative proposals for one-on-one reading and urgency. We don't share the urgency. We understand that reducing mandates is a first step in a deeper reform that we would need to do, and that is why we will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.232.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.233.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, President. I will try to be brief, because, in reality, the text that brings us to debate also is. It's obvious that what you've planted in us has felt, hasn't it? , that is to say, to reduce the mandates of these three statutory bodies, institutions that the country needs, again to six years. That's true. Now, I said this, what we're doing here today is culminating an agreement between three big games, the three big games of this chamber. Do you manage to put an end to these organs that had not been resolved in years? Yeah. Do I do it through..., complete the minimum number of parliamentary seats required? Yeah, that's right. I, therefore, bring this agreement here. An agreement that also incorporates, in addition to dividing the boxes, therefore, reduce the number of years of these organs. So, it's more of a part of this deal. We have not participated in this agreement. You're not invited to discuss it either. So do not ask us now, therefore, to gather the agreement that you have reached to divide the cadres, which, among other things, also includes this element that you call 'democratic regeneration'. So what we're doing is abstaining. They say to us: "No, we are doing this because of democratic regeneration. Surely it is true that this is a necessary element. It is also true that in this house we are very late, in questions of democratic regeneration, and perhaps it is true, there are three laws, look, due from the year 2009 and one from the year 2008. It is true that there are laws at 15-M and that many things have happened in this country since then. And one of the demands that we have and that we see from the street from years ago, so, it's just... elements of radicalism and democratic regeneration, which clearly... this is insufficient in everything we can do. Because, by the way, if they change these three laws, we can also change many other questions and improve them from a point of view of democratic quality, but only touch what you have to do with the reasons that have been shared – so, what you have already granted. I also wanted to refer to the principles behind this, that... so many of the charges that you've split up as the modification that you're bringing us here today, right? Clearly, you have shared a number of roles that many of them say, in the very legislation that we are amending today, are based on criteria of independence, neutrality, plurality. Therefore, in the end, be aware that whatever they are doing..., or continue to, complete the legality of completing with the number of steps necessary to approve it, but do not respond to the nature of these organs and how they should be named, because they do not respond to the principle of neutrality in many cases, because they do not respond to the principle of plurality either, because the three great ones agree to leave out many other groups of this chamber. So when we talk about democratic quality, we talk about reducing mandates, but we should also take into account other principles that they want to see with democratic quality. And plurality is not one, respect for minorities is also another, and these you are not taking into account in this agreement. So we could go a lot further than that when we talk about democratic quality. Let me also tell you that, with some concern, we've seen this three-way deal, among the three big ones, right? I'm sure he can go there more. And he left me a little worried, Mr. Orobtig, when he said, "No, no, we haven't finished yet; we also have the election law. To me it is a bit of a reason, therefore, that in the end the electoral law ended only by agreeing between these three, because, of course, electoral systems that benefit the majority groups also exist. So, let's see what electoral system we push and how it affects minorities, see if they end up eliminating us, minority groups, agreeing with you three. Therefore, what we are asking of them is that..., obviously, it should be these years of expiration of all these organizations; obviously, it should go forward in democratic quality, but this is not a matter of falling apart; that they should try to talk to all groups, that they should seek wider agreements and consensus that represent the plurality of this Parliament, which, in short, is also the plurality of this country. Like I said, we'll abstain. All right, all right, Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.234.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.235.0	Thank you, President. Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we are brought here today, the two groups of the Government and the Socialist Party of Catalonia, a proposal to reform some of the laws through which institutions or members will be elected as representatives of certain institutions that are fundamental to the proper functioning of a democracy. Institutions that are weights and counter-powers in the space of our democracy, and therefore should serve to counter the excesses that may be committed by the public authorities, the rulers, particularly the institution of the Greuges Synod. The union of hardships is, let us say, what should be the reference in that defense of citizenship, of individual rights, in the face of the majorityist impulses of those who govern a particular political community. It is clear that Mr Ribó is the antithesis..., has been the antithesis during all these years of defending the rights of citizens. Mr Ribó, basically, at the head of the institution for eighteen years – which is said soon – and, therefore, with the mandate completely defeated, what some say « expired» and, in any case, is an extended mandate – it is clear that he has not been a person who has been characterized precisely by his neutrality, by his equanimity, by his willingness to defend the rights of the citizens. In this respect, I would like to link this aspect with a debate on which we have also had confrontations today between various parliamentary groups, which is precisely that of the police of Catalonia, the Mossos d'Esquadra. When Mr Ribó has had to report on the Mossos d'Esquadra, he has done so in a sense that I have always found it worrying, because he has done so to say, for example, that there were infiltrators from the far right in the Mossos d'Esquadra or that the Mossos d'Esquadra were exceedingly limited in their duties. This ideological climate that has created institutions that, after all, have been little less than panicked by political power has given rise to a vision of reality that is deeply solvent for coexistence. I say this because today, for example, a Member of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Freixa, in her speech, said directly that all her support, all the support of her group, to a criminal, a gentleman named Brian Bartés, who has today been sentenced to one year and nine months by the Provincial Court of Barcelona precisely for assaulting a mosso d'ésquadra. It seems to me incredible, absolutely unusual in a democracy, that there are political leaders who from the rostrum of Parliament give their support to a criminal who has assaulted..., has been condemned for assaulting a mosso d'ésquadra – in fact, for assaulting several mosso d'ésquadra – and that nobody here rips their clothes. It's an amazing thing. I, as a Catalan, make crosses to see what my land has become, what my community has become, what this Parliament has become, when a Member of Junts per Catalunya... By the way, the formerly defence party of the Catalan bourgeoisie, supposedly the former Convergence, had a cadre of important voters among people, let's say, of what we could call ‘the people of order.' Well, what was previously the ruling party today has deputies who support a criminal who assaults police officers, and therefore despise and put our police officers at the feet of the horses. From here, unlike what Junts per Catalunya says, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, all our support for the assaulted mosso d'esquadra, and our applause, logically, because justice has been done with criminal Brian Bartés. This, as far as the position adopted by the heavyweight syndicate with regard to the police, for example, is concerned. But it is that institutional quality, the appointment of people who do not deserve a certain dignity, is seen in many other aspects. For example, as I mentioned in my previous speech with regard to the delegate or deputy delegate of the Government of the Generalitat in Brussels, in the European Union, Mrs Erika Casajoana, who today appeared in an intervention in the Flemish Parliament, where she said directly..., compared the situation in Ukraine with what we Catalans are experiencing, compared the democratic Spain of 78 with the authoritarian Russia of Mr Putin. And he said more: he said that Citizens, as some Members have also said in the previous speech, was born to go against Catalans, directly. Mrs Casajoana will explain to me what we are, if we are not Catalans; what are the citizens' deputies, what are the hundreds of citizens' voters in Catalonia, if not Catalans, Mrs Casajoana. Let me be explained, and let me be explained by those who appoint people for dignity of those characteristics. And he said directly that Citizens wanted to ban Catalan in schools. How can one go to a foreign parliament, to the Flemish Parliament, to lie and to let go of such nonsense? Those who want to put an end to bilingualism in Catalan society, those who want to put an end to the linguistic plurality pursued by the public debate in Catalonia, are you, nationalists. I no longer tell you that you want to end up with the Castilian in schools, because what you basically want is to reduce practically to nothing; not « to end – to be very precise – with what there is, but to reduce to nothing. It is precisely the Member who said that he would never sign a motion that was written in Spanish again. [[The timer laughs.]] There you go, with all of you. [[Some applause.]] Finally, this kind of thing, which generates hilarity, has been normalized in the Parliament of Catalonia, and is a real nonsense. I draw attention to this, because it really seems troubling to me. And so, I insist, it is how democracies die, doing this kind of institutional degradation; appointing partisans, such as Mr Ribó, to supposedly defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia; making use of absolutely fraudulent institutions. Today you come here to propose to us a reform of the laws both of the Council of State Guarantees..., a council to which you have always ignored; I want to remind you of the case, for example..., and in that case it was the tripartite government, with the socialists, Esquerra Republicana and Initiative per Catalunya, which, when the Council Consultiu, the previous Council of State Guarantees, made an opinion in which it said everything that was to be declared unconstitutional afterwards by the Constitutional Court, they..., the Government said: "We ignore that advisory opinion. Democracy begins by prestigating institutions, by respecting institutions, all institutions, and also institutions that must ensure that the public authorities do not go too far and subject citizens to the tyranny of the majority. Individual rights must be respected, because without them there is no democracy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.236.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.237.0	Thank you, President. I agree with the interpretation made by some groups that have preceded me in the use of the floor, according to which we are not discussing here today strictly the appropriateness of the single-reading method, even if that is what the agenda item says, nor the reduction of mandates, even if it is the substantive part of the agreement that would then be discussed, then. Nor are we debating today the legitimate approach that the VOX Group has taken to the suitability of these institutions or whether they should be closed or not. That is not the issue we are discussing today. In fact, there is a matter of greater depth on the table that directly concerns the PSC. The PSC has not agreed on what it has agreed in a context of institutional normality, institutional positions – worth redundancy. The PSC has agreed with political parties that ensure every day – every day, and today they have done what – that the PSC-PSOE chairs fascist institutions in the rest of Spain and that the PSC-PSOE is part of a repressive strategy and a general cause against independence. Something's failing here. I have come to the conclusion that there is a cat locked up here, and that there is a lot of theater on both sides. Someone's cheating on us here. Either Junts per Catalunya cheats on us when they make their inflamed unilateral soflamas but then they compromise what they agree in the parliament, here and we'll see at Barcelona City Hall, or they cheats on us Republican Left when they claim they're still independent, or they cheat on us the PSC, which is most likely, because deception is part of their ambiguous nature practically since its foundation. Or the most likely thing, and they're cheating on us all three at once. And it would be important that, beyond the theatre they are organizing, they were sincere to the Catalan public and really explained what they are doing, and, in this case, they would do as the CUP. I think there is no Member who has been more severe..., and I also recreate myself in every plenary in criticizing what the CUP's pernicious proposals are to me, but I must say that at least they have the decency not to deceive anyone. You have your ideas and you do not do what you, PSC, Esquerra and Junts have just done, which is to deceive everyone with an agreement that is absolutely embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.238.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary session of the Law 2/2009 reform law proposal, the Council of State Guarantees. It is understood that the favourable votes are in favour of their single reading, and the negative votes against. The vote begins. The vote was 96 votes in favour, 14 against and 16 abstentions. Therefore, having regard to the outcome of the vote, and in accordance with Rule 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary session. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the proposal for a law amending Law 24/2009, of the Synod of Greuges. The vote begins. The vote was 95 in favour, 14 against and 16 abstentions. Therefore, given the outcome of the vote, this proposal will be dealt with in a single reading. Next we proceed to the proposal to vote on the processing directly and in single reading of the proposed law amending Law 14/2008, of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. The vote begins. This vote received 96 votes in favour, 14 against and 16 abstentions. Given the outcome of the vote, this bill will also be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary. For these three approved processings, the Bureau sets the deadline for the presentation of so many items to the totality as items to the joint, which will end this divender, March 25th, to the two. [[Resolution proposals]] [[252-00015/13 and 252-00016/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a committee of inquiry into the purge of squadron movements investigating separatist corruption cases. The reminders that, as we agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman, this point will be co-substantiated with item 10 of the order of the day, relating to the proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry into the changes in the police dome of the Mosso d'Esquadra. In the first place, the four proposed parliamentary groups will intervene. They have a maximum time of five minutes. And there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.239.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... We are once again talking about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and we have done so to defend a proposal that we will be coming in for some time now, which we have – and so the chairman of our parliamentary group has expressed – to withdraw it, which is to formulate a commission of inquiry, at the inexplicable of the changes proposed for the government in the dome of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. This morning we listened with the attention of the President of the Generalitat, both in his first intervention and in the replies, and if anything has become very clear to us, I would say that it is mostly clear that, far from bringing light, therefore, to all that these changes have been, which he has projected are still more shadows. And we are in a truly paradoxical situation: we have a study commission on everything that is the police model, which puts the focus in a very particular way too..., not only in the public order, but in the outline of the model, in the control mechanisms, and particularly in a sensitive environment, because of the relevancy it has, such as the General Information Commissioner, on which we project..., we do not have a transparency exercise, at some times I think we have almost a striptease exercise – forgive me – and, continuously, we have a government that is moving in the shadow, in the opacity. A lot of transparency and we parade here all the commands of the Mossos and all the reports and we ask for all the information, and when we ask the government to come and explain their decisions, not the performance of the Mossos, so... this is denied to us by the groups that support the government, isn't it? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I will read some of the information that has been asked to see what is the degree of demand we make on the Squadron Movements and which, as we can see at the end of this vote, I am very afraid that the Government does not apply in absolute terms to itself: "Request for the guidelines of action of the General Information Commissioner; the methodologies of political control; the databases of which it has at its disposal; the mechanisms of control of police attestations; the criteria, protocols, orders, circulars, initiations and criminal investigations; the lists of software they have, etc. It is an extensive relationship, as extensive is the relationship of Commands of the Squad Coast that will pass through this commission, but government will pass no one. There will be no government in the committee we are asking for, because explain to us a decision that the Mosses have nothing to do with it, that it is a government decision, that it is changing the dome of the Mosses Cos d'Esquadra. He said: "Home, all the counselors have made changes. Certainly, but none of the councillors have made thirty-six changes from one shot to give a caretaker signal – let me express it – to the Mossos, who here is the government. I, moreover, altering, therefore, extremely sensitive commissariats. Then, the Police Model Study Commission will focus on a sensitive, Information Commissioner; in the changes, another focus has been placed on another sensitive Commissioner, such as the Criminal Investigation Commission. They've already said, and they've reiterated themselves, and I won't have any more recreation, which were the investigations that had been done. And things have been said this morning that surprise us, because, as they have spoken, more contradictions have assumed. The first time we discussed this issue with you, Counsellor, here in the plenary, he said to us: "No, the Commissioner's change at the head I did and I communicated it to the President – very well –; "the rest, he said, here and at the committee, "so we spoke it between the Director General and the dome of the Mossos. Yesterday the president told us, in the first sentence, and vagina in the diary of sessions..., he said to us: "No, no, as a collegiate organ that it is the government, we distributed it to each other. And this is the key to the thing. This is the key to the thing: that they have transferred to the dome of the Mosses what is the division and what are the complex balances to the si of the government. "I take away the one who makes me..., and Major Trapero ugly to some of us, because he had made some statements in his court of law uncomfortable. Others belong to the head of criminal investigation. Some pose one; the others, the other, with which they have made an absolutely unacceptable interference with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. This is the cause for which we defend and defend the creation of a commission of inquiry. And I suppose, finally, after hearing what the members of the CUP have said, another time, then, they will drag them out of the entanglement and save them, for a very simple reason: because they are the ones who dictate politics, because they are the ones who dictate politics to the Department of Interior. And we'll be careful to see who we pay for the fact that the CUP will save them from this investigation commission. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.240.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.241.0	Well, thank you, President. I would also like to start this speech, as the chairman of my parliamentary group did this morning, reminding the 20-year-old girl who was raped and assaulted this Saturday on Barceloneta beach by a man of Maghreb origin. By the way, with unusual brutality: before raping her, she hit her head against stones, broke her nose and two cheekbones in the face. We also want to convey our support and affection to the girl raped by two Algerians, just over ten days ago...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.242.0	Mr. Congressman, one moment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.243.0	...in the parking lot of the disco Waka, Sabadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.244.0	Please. I've stopped her time, and I'd ask her not to force me to repeat what I've repeated to her on many occasions, because, at this time, with the statements she's making, she's producing a process of revictimization of the person she's suffered, already, this sexual assault. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.245.0	When do I tell you... can I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.246.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.247.0	All right. In the fifteen days that separate this plenary from the previous one, therefore, two girls have been raped; two families, destroyed. So, what do you mean, "no"? , we continue to be very present also, every day, to the girl raped in Igualada, of which four months ago we have no news. She's got five surgeries, she's lost one eye, one ear, and she's been broken inside. Sadly, currently going out at night has become a risky activity for many women in Catalonia. And what has the Government said, since the Department of Equality and Feminism, in these cases of extreme savage brutality? Burial silence. Institutional feminism does not care about these cases. It does not draw political revenue from them and breaks its discourse progress of the new masculinities, the heteropatriarchy oppressor, the sizes that tighten and other craps of the feminism of the salon. But I want to convey a message, a message of tranquillity for women in Catalonia and of endurance to rapists and aggressors. When VOX governs, which will soon, we will end the immigration invasion; we will return security to our streets and neighborhoods; we will make known, without caps, the nationality of those who have come to our country not to integrate themselves, but to delinquent. And, of course, those guilty of these most serious crimes will rot in prison, if they are Spanish, and will be immediately deported, if they are illegal immigrants. [[Some applause.]] As for the committee of inquiry into the purge of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia seems to us to be necessary for two reasons. Firstly, because the explanations given by the Councillor and Mr Aragonès seem to us to be little less than a hair removal. Councillor Elena has come to justify the changes in the police dome by invoking up to four different arguments, each one less credible. The crude maneuver of insinuating that Toni Rodríguez is a good surgeon, but not a good hospital director, has disassembled itself in view of the score obtained by Mr. Rodríguez in the evaluation of his superiors. It is clear that he had leadership and leadership, and that the reasons for his cessation have been others. Secondly, also because we want to hear the main players on this issue. First of all, we want to know..., that Mr. Estela tells us and explains to us whether the decision to fulminate Mr. Rodriguez was exclusively his decision or whether it was dictated to him; why it was his first decision at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra; why he took it individually, separate from the other thirty changes that have taken place in the body, and so many other relevant issues that are unanswered. We also want to know the positions of the purged Mr. Rodríguez, of the resigned Deputy Inspector Juan Manuel Lazo, to clarify to us what cases of corruption they were investigating, why they had to apply for judicial protection, who pressured them to leak judicial information or how it is possible for Mr. Buch to tell Mrs. Borràs to be calm, if that information could only be offered by the police to the judge and could therefore only be reported to the judge. There are many doubts and suspicions to clarify. In conclusion, we believe that the dismissal of Lieutenant Toni Rodríguez is intended to control the General Commission for Criminal Investigation politically and to put a stop to the judicial investigation of many cases of separatist corruption. We also think that the changes have wanted to transfer to the new police dome those difficult political partisan balances between Esquerra and Junts, politicizing the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And, thirdly, we think it is impossible for President Aragonès to have been alien to this question of purge in the Mossos d'Esquadra, because this operation does not make her a counselor without the knowledge and approval of the President of the Government. Mr. Aragonès, therefore – and we think so – has fulmmed the Mayor Rodriguez to cover up the corruption of Junts and thus ensure, in fair correspondence, the stability on the part of his governing partner. And this is what we want to be made clear in this parliamentary committee that we have asked together with two other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.248.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.249.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... The relief of the police dome which, under the apparent impulse of the Councillor of the Interior, has executed the Government of the Generalitat has not been convincingly explained either by Councillor Elena or, this morning, by President Aragonès. The President's appearance before this plenary session has not convinced us at all. This lack of sound arguments three months after the relays became effective reaffirms us in the initial perception that, in fact, we are faced with a purge of the police dome that obeys partisan interests of the current Government and its constituent parties, a perception that has also been explicitly expressed by several journalists specialized in police matters and published in different media. This purge began on December 20, although it was probably getting pregnant in advance. That Monday, on the eve of Christmas parties, the fulminant cessation of Major Trapero took place at the head of the Mossos d'Esquadra. The arguments put forward to try to justify this cessation – caused, without a doubt, by a loss of confidence from the political leadership of the Interior in the police of the highest hierarchy of the body – follow the tone with which the current Government of the Generalitat intends to justify all its political action: use and abuse of arguments framed in the politically correct that, in reality, they intend to mask the reality of things. In fact, the real reason for the cessation of Major Trapero has been to tell the truth before the Supreme Court. Counselor Elena justified his purge by saying that he is looking for new leadership in the body – an obviousness, after decapitating the dome of Mossos – and adorned his argument that new challenges were being taken on, such as proximity, feminization, the eradication of macho violence and the early retirement of the agents; all of them issues that, with total certainty, both the greatest Trapero and his most direct collaborators within the Chief of Mossos d'Esquadra were able to face with successful guarantees. Mr. Elena has also used the fallacious arguments that he intends to rejuvenate the body. He seems to be hindered by the veteran police, in addition to the police of greatest employment and hierarchy in Mossos, as is Mr. Trapero: veteran, yes, and in a position of activity and in full power for the performance of his duties, too. Mr. Elena, using a chastity expression, to another dog with that bone. The Government of the Generalitat has purged the dome of Mossos. He didn't know or could not explain why. The explanations given both by the Home Secretary and, this very morning, by the President of the Generalitat have not offered any objective facts justifying this purge, masked with a simple relief in the exercise of their functions. The reality is that the purged commandos, with the greatest Trapero at their head, have been degraded in functions and committed, an ostracism that in the case of Mr. Trapero is greater, if it is possible: in the fullness of faculties and in a situation of active service, first it ceases without destination, then it is assigned one third and, finally, it is placed outside the police hierarchical structure under the control of the Director General of the police directing an area of analysis of services whose real usefulness is to be seen. In any case, ostracism, even if in this case it is first class. The motion for a resolution we are presenting calls on Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry into the main consequence of Mr Trapero's dismissal, the purge of the Mossos d'Esquadra who were investigating cases of corruption involving separatist leaders. Of all the things related to this collective purge, this question is undoubtedly the one that smells the worst. In this sense, the leadership of the Commissioner-General for Criminal Investigation of Chief Antoni Rodríguez has neither been explained nor justified, a cease-fire which was intended to be explained and justified by the new Commissioner-in-Chief for reasons of style. A police officer with an impassable career is caught, he is stopped at the head of one of the main units, such as the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, and is assigned to the command of the ABP of Rubí. All points out that the real reasons are the fact that she has collaborated, in accordance with the law, with the prosecution and the courts in the clarification of cases of corruption affecting both former councillor Buch and the current President of Parliament, Mrs Borràs. If we add to that that Deputy Inspector Juan Manuel Lazo, his right hand in criminal investigation, had to ask the investigating judge for amparo in the face of the interference and political pressure he was receiving in the exercise of his duties as judicial police, there are plenty of reasons for this commission of inquiry to be launched today. The opposite will be nothing more than an attempt to maintain the pretense of impunity and opacity that have characterized the last governments of the Generalitat to the detriment of democracy and truth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.250.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.251.0	Thank you, President. It is simply to ratify me in the arguments I used this morning in the appearance of the President of the Generalitat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.252.0	Thank you very much. Then, to express his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.253.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, counselors... here we are, with endless history, it seems, and another time reiterating us in this debate that for us it already makes more than allioli. In any case, we try to approach it as soon as possible and pass on the page. For what we have seen, there are great lines of paint that could be used to fill many new police and investigative novels. In any case, not one of us has been convinced to set up a commission of inquiry. And I was wondering if we really told them that we've tried to listen to them, to listen to their arguments, and we've had uncountable opportunities to do so. At the moment, the preliminary conclusion that we can give is that the one that allowed this inquiry commission petition and all this front that has been done with respect is to reunite all Spanishism, reunite all of the right and all of the extreme right with the Socialist Party, in a new episode of unity against it, isn't it? Some questions. I think that, unfortunately, we are overvalued, Socialist Party leaders. Interior policies do not dictate them to the CUP. Much better the country, if dictated by the CUP. [[Widow's remorse.]] At the very least, we would not be bent on great interests, on the interests of the employer, on the interests of the great properties, on the interests of the returning foundations. And in any case, we wouldn't be willing to defend a little more of the usual, as it seemed to have happened so far and surely in the previous eras. The day will come – let's wait, and let's hope you don't miss so much – because that's the way it is. In any case, for now I think we're overvalued. And so as not to widen me further, and stop the lies that are repeated in this room and that we have been hearing throughout the day, remember that during 2021 there were twelve murders for male violence; more than eleven thousand complaints of male assaults– eight hundred of which were rape, 1,400 for sexual abuse–, and eighty per cent of which were produced around the victims. So... Sometimes it seems that reality cannot be used to spread a great headline, to sow por, but this is reality. And the reality, therefore, is that the majority of assaults, that the majority of rapes, that the majority of murder situations by male violence – because it is male violence, not abstract rape, as some want to sell – pass into the proper round, and that approximately three-quarters_parts are the result of the performance of the pair. From the rest, a twenty per cent, approximately, of the performance of family members, and the rest, of the community. Therefore, we know that... we will not ask rigour to the extreme right, because neither flight nor search; what it wants is to propagate the message of por, propagate the message of hatred. But anyway, this is the reality, like it more or less. And it's a reality to fight, just like it is to fight because their speeches, beyond shame, generate hate, generate... well, better than I ended up here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.254.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.255.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's talk about this again. I believe that our parliamentary group has been very clear at the time of asking for explanations on the renewal of the summit of the Mossos. We have expressed this on repeated occasions and we have promoted it parliamentaryly, asking for the appearance of the councillor, first place, who has already had a place, and, second place, therefore, of the President of the Generality, who has appeared this morning. And we pushed it because the president is the most responsible for the government's decisions, and also because the counselor had told us that the decision had been taken in a shared way with the president. We have always said – and today our spokesman, in David Cid, has repeated it, right? – that we are perfectly aware that the Councillor of the Interior is responsible for the appointment of the dome of the Mossos, and that, therefore, he has all the legitimacy to make this decision, which we have never discussed. But, in fact, precisely because of this, because it is a political decision, to which he questions it, as we have asked it, or to which he puts it in doubt, therefore, what is to be given are political answers and explanations, right? And we understand that this is done through comparisons, that it's the mechanism we have in this room to give political accountability, and that it's already happened, more than it's satisfied us with these explanations, that some of them haven't completely satisfied us..., but we understand that the mechanism is this. So far as explanations are concerned, we do not believe that an investigation committee is the mechanism we need to set up to account for these decisions. And, therefore, we will abstain from the Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion for a resolution, and we will vote against, therefore, the other, eh? That said, and once we give the explanations, I think we have to say, as I said, specifically in the case of the investigative commission, so, that they have not convinced us in absolute, because in reality they have not given any, of explanation, beyond the compromise, that we obviously celebrate, as it could not otherwise be, that the president has told us that he will be implacable in the fight against corruption. But, well, in any case, donating these explanations, we understand that now what it's all about is letting our teams work; that they work, and in any case, that we begin to evaluate them from the results of their work. Some of the results that we need to see with a model change in the police, and therefore also....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And that's what we hope you can get out of the Police Model Study Commission. I also have to say that in this committee there have already been some appearances of new leaders both of Mossos and of the Department of Interior. Specifically, just a few days ago, the commissioner in chief, Mr. Josep Maria Estela, came, but there was also the director general of the Administration of Security, Mrs. Sonia Andolz, or the councilwoman in Security Policies and Perspectives of Gender, Mrs. Alba Alfageme. And it's true that in the speeches that they gave to us during their appearances, we shared many of the elements that they raised, many of the transformational objects that they brought, not all of them, right? But many of them are true, so we can share them. And, therefore, now what is needed is to see the results; it is to translate these speeches, this report, into actual facts. And we'll keep pushing because, in everything we think is changing, it's producing. So, as I've been saying, now they're done. And for us, it is a compliment, first of all, to what we have already approved in this chamber. And I want to make manifest, therefore, the amendment of the protocol to ban shooting at the head, which we have approved in this house, and, therefore, it is a parliamentary resolution that the Government must compliment. Also to the protocol of performance so that Brimo and ARRO do not act, do not intervene in denunciations with vulnerable families. Therefore, here we also demand..., and for the moment it seems that we are not going for the right path. And, therefore, I would like to compliment these questions. The facts are also to give compliments to the agreement of assumptions. And, in this sense, that means cameras with audio and video to the hungry launchers; that means increasing the training in human rights, or that means deploying the nearby commissariats. Therefore, all this is where we would be loving because the government fulfilled the commitments made and completed with parliamentary mandates. And we understand that this is the task that needs to be done rigorously from then on. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.256.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.257.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Go ahead of all the support of Together to all the security and emerging bodies, and especially with regard to these proposals for resolution, or, in any case, to these requests for commission creation, to the Squadre Mosso Cossos d'Esquadra. In them we have our trust and the defense of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. Thanks for your professionalism, dedication and service vocation. We find ourselves again in a repetitive situation, where we seem to be trapped in the time of a few months ago – it seems that there is not enough, this morning. Perhaps someone thinks that, by repeating and repeating the same question several times, there will be a different answer. And we tell them: for many times you ask me the same, I will answer the same, because there is no other truth than this. But I would also like to tell them that it would be good to move forward and go for work, because the reality is that there is a lot of work to be done. I, who come from the local world, and as the mayor of my people, from Begues, as well as other mayors who are also here today in this Chamber, I must tell you that I am used to going to work, making decisions and settling, because I am telling my people and because that is what awaits the citizenship of all of us when he knocks on our door. And this theme that you have come together to repeat and repeat is already beginning to tire of the city and also of the proper Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. Because the citizenry wants action. That is why they voted for us: to act, to bring ideas and to build a better country. Please, stop making opposition empty, low level, and bring positive questions to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. To do politics is to serve the citizenry and strive to improve every day. Keep going, no more partying. You're captivated in a matter that doesn't even have a few. All governments are making changes, and this is a legitimate decision of Councillor Elena. They've done all the interior advisors, too – we said it was – of the initiative, of the PSC; the Saura advisors, Swordler, in Buch, in Sámper, all, to face the objectives of the legislature. The same union of commanders defends, because these changes do not run counter to the interests of the same police; on the contrary, the police consider them necessary. So, I'm listening to the professionals, I'm listening to the police. Investigations are in the hands of professionals and ongoing. The police do their job, and no one can intercede in investigations. The investigation of our president Borràs was passed to the Civil Guard in the year 2018 – as we said – and recently it has been shut down and is still pending trial. In the same way that former Buch counsel, who is also on trial. So don't sweep any more naps and cols, that's enough. No policy can intercede at the head of investigations. This pocket is only a cop, and you know it. No more questions about his professionalism. Here we do not do as in Spain, whether in Fernández Díaz as in Zoido or in Marlaska they have changed to try to close investigations, such as, for example, the piss in Marbella of the President of the Community of Madrid, the papers of Bárcenas or the plot Gürtel, or eliminating the figure of the adjunct directors operating – the DAO –, who were technical, leaving it at the hands of the directors general, political, at a time when the PP was under multiple investigations by corruption. Or change because the police command refused to disclose some data to Minister Marlaska about an open investigation, in the case of the PSOE. Maybe this is the only way you have to do politics, and maybe that's why you think everyone else is doing it with you. He who does evil, he does evil. Look forward, look at the future. Change for your sake and also for the sake of the people of Catalonia, please. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.258.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.259.0	Thank you, President. To life, gentlemen of the PSC, energies are sometimes devoted to causes or functions or to elements that do not give us permission. And when this happens, there are two things you can do: either you can recognize that energy has gone bad and you can move forward, or you can keep insisting and continuing to go bad. And I think that's what happens to them, gentlemen of the PSC. From the extreme right, I can already expect it, because they come to sabotage Catalan politics and blow. That's good for them. But from a center coalition like yours, which you say is an alternate government advisor and that they claim this sense of governance, so I just didn't hear it. He explained to us here a conspirator report, which, in fact, has been explained by some to the journalistic area, but, well, he did his own. And under this conspirator report you asked for the counselor's appearance. They want me to appear in the Department of the Interior, they have asked parliamentary questions, they have voted in favour of the appearance of the very honorable president and now they want to do a commission of inquiry. Well, they're interested in continuing to stretch the xiclet. I give you some ideas – free of charge –: they can make an intergroup to investigate the changes in the Mossos dome; they can make a parliamentary work commission on the changes in the Mossos dome; they can make a "proposal of law that follows a law of investigation of the changes in the Mossos dome; they can ask the Greuges syndicate to investigate the changes in the Mossos dome". I'm sure you'll know how to sneak in and how to locate, within the board of the Union of Accounts, that you'll be investigating the dome shift of Mossos. They are also sure that they are created and can make some "proposal to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies because they speak of the change of the dome of Mossos. And, to the "body, I give you the idea, because, moreover, I think it can be very entertaining: you can ask the commission of the "body that TV3 makes a series on the change of the dome of Mossos that follows a barrier – I do this to you because it will be very successful – between La Pantera Rosa, Stranger Things and House of Cards. To me, that I like the series of fiction very much, above all fantastic..., sure I will see it all the times. It's true, they don't like the changes to the dome of Mossos. I don't know why, but they don't like it. Well, Mr. Marlaska also made changes in the National Police dome, and no one makes any conspiracy stories. Whether we like it or not, the change he's made. However, they also give to make a commission of inquiry, these changes, because with what we have seen with the Commission of Pontevedra..., this implies that within the National Police Cos there is a prevalence of the thought of extreme right and masculinity, and that it would be worth investigating. You think you've found the "Mousos gate." They feel like they've found a gold mine to find. And this, his story... this one doesn't even give for a bad turn from El Mundo Today. That is to say, there is no Mossos gate, there is conspiracy. The truth is, while we're discussing these issues, these things that are planted here, the Squad Mosos investigate corruption. They investigate it without any political, journalistic or especially government member telling them when, and to whom and in what way. And I say it again: no political, no member of the government and no journalist say it. They've abdicated politics. They are a little changed, perhaps because they were expecting an abradonate counselor, who makes very grand speeches, but without any real effects of politics, or a cynical counselor, who says they can't change things. And they found themselves a government, a councilman, and an interior team that's a political fan. While you play conspiracies, the government makes politics: it makes a change in defense..., a better in defense of the Mosso d'Esquadra to prevent it from entering into conflict with fundamental rights; it increases the state topall of Mosso d'Esquadra; up to implement early retirement; up to a record of investments – which is certainly a positive record, because the negative record got it to you, that is to say, this one we leave behind, leave it for you–; limits the application of the law to guarantee fundamental rights and prevent the violation of the right, for example, to information or the right to demonstration; makes the media paper more important in positions; door to debate the Commission's model of law, and to the reservation of secrecy. To make alternatives would be to make political. What I've explained to him is politics. Making alternatives is political iron. To say different options of how farian is also political is to do, but the commission that you pose to us is not political; it is anti-political, "conspiracy, and here they will not find us there. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.260.0	We then proceed to vote on the motion for a resolution to set up a committee of inquiry into the purge of squadron movements investigating cases of separatist corruption. Vote first on this first... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, yeah. We voted... we had the joint debate of all two proposals, but we agreed to the Board of Spokesmen that we would vote for them separately. Therefore, in the first place, we would vote on this proposal for a commission of inquiry that bore this title, "the purge of the squadron movements that investigated the cases of separatist corruption, and then we would vote for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the changes in the police dome of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra". Is that clear? [[Pause.]] So now we are proceeding to the first, the proposal to create a commission of inquiry into the purge of squadron movements investigating cases of separatist corruption. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected, with 13 votes in favour and 112 against. We then proceed to the motion for a resolution... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Are there any obstacles? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Ah... [[Widow's remorse.]] He's all right with the echo they're answering. We are voting now, therefore, on the proposal for a resolution to create a committee of inquiry into the changes to the police dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected, with 45 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 7 abstentions. [[Procedure for choosing seven members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary Popular Consultations]] [[284-00010/13]] Let's move now to the 11th point of the order of the day, until the reconsideration with which we started the recovery of the Ple has been withdrawn. Therefore, let's move to the next item on the agenda, which is the procedure for choosing seven members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary Popular Consultations. According to Law 10/2014, of 26 September, of popular non-referendum consultations and of other forms of civic participation, we proceed to the appointment of the members of the said control commission. I ask the fourth secretary, Mr Ruben Wagensberg, to read the names of the candidates who have been proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.261.0	The candidates proposed are Elia Marzal Yetano, proposed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans ; Maria Sirvent Escrig, proposed for the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar ; Esther Pano Puey, proposed for the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress ; Alicia Ramos Jordan, proposed for the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem ; Jaume Martorell Cruz, proposed for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, and Agustí Bosch Gardella, proposed for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-23-2702.262.0	Thank you very much. So let us proceed to the vote for the nomination of the six members of the Committee for the Control of Non-Referendary People's Consultations who have been presented for parliamentary groups as candidates. Can these candidates be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] No, no, Otherwise, the record that, according to Article 14.3 of Law 10/2014, for this designation is required the majority of three_five_parts. As we vote people, the vote will be electronic and secret. Therefore, the vote begins. The proposal of these members was approved, with 116 votes in favour and 9 votes against. Therefore, members of the People's Consultation Control Commission are appointed not to refer to the six candidates proposed. [[Greetings.]] And we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
