ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Asking the Government about special work centres]] [[300-00149/13]] And we do so on the agenda, the question to the Government about the special work centres, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented to us to move forward. She has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Elena Díaz. [[Strong remorse of sight and laughter.]] I see we're very excited this morning, and we give the deputies anniversaries before we take the word. Forward, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.2.0	Good morning, President. Thanks to my group, too. [[Rialles.]] Good morning, counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies. Before I begin my intervention, I would like to greet and welcome Parliament representatives from the sector that is with us today. I would also like to recall that, just today, 7 April, we celebrate the forty years of the entry into force of the Lysmi, the current general law of disability. Four decades of a law that assumed one before and one after in the labor inclusion of people with disabilities. And it was precisely from the Lysmi that the special work centres came up, the subject that we are dealing with today. Before the king, I would like, very briefly, to make five cents on the situation of the collection. When we talk about people with disabilities, we need to be aware that we are talking about a little more than the 8th percent of the population of Catalonia, with data from September 2021. And, if we focus on the relationship with the job market, people with disabilities who are in a working age today are a little over 300,000. Now, if we analyze these people's relationship with the job market, the data is pretty gross. About one_of_each_three people potentially active, one_of_each_three people in working age, are. Only one_of_each_three are active people. Sixty-three_per_cent are inactive, they are people who are totally out of the job market. And, besides, if we talk about the rate of this collection, we see that it's more than double that of the rest of the population. With these data, counselor, we believe that the situation of the disabled people's market is an issue that we should be dealing with, because, moreover, they are vulnerable to a greater risk of social exclusion and poverty, and access to work is a necessary condition to guarantee their phone rights. For this reason it is necessary to combat discrimination, to remove barriers to entry to the labour market and to encourage both workers and occupants. But inclusion also requires other factors, and I will list three: the first, the existence of work places where people with disabilities can develop their full potential; the second, you serve specialized to meet the needs of this collection, making it special in the public services of occupation, and the third, support and social recognition to the workers who do offer these opportunities. And, bearing in mind these three factors, we have to mention and we have to talk, undoubtedly, about the role that the special work centres develop, which precisely complement these three factors. The CETs, which, as I said, are regulated from the entry into force of the Lysmi, have been and are a model of success in the employment inclusion of persons with disabilities. And this is especially due to the volume of employment they generate, the stake for the occupation of people with special difficulties and the job stability they offer, which we have been able to prove especially in the two later years of economic crisis caused by the pandemic. I will only add one: the past year, the year 2021, the seventy per cent of contracts signed for persons with disabilities were made in the area of CETs, while the remaining thirty per cent – it was made to the ordinary enterprise and to the public administration. The access of persons with disabilities to the full exercise of their economic rights is inconceivable, without special work centres. And that's why, counselor, we think it's a sector that the Administration especially takes into consideration and reverberates and perceives its total recovery. In this sense, the Government of Spain approved the Royal Decree 818/21 last September, for which the common programmes of activity for the occupation are regulated, as surely you must already know. This is state legislation that improves employment policies for the most vulnerable. And, from the changes that take place in this new royal decree, from its 3rd occupation opportunity axis is regulated one of the special issues of the TECs, one of the most historical requests of the TECs, which is the subsidy of wage expenditure. At this point in time we have a state regulation that sets out the framework on which the salary subsidy of workers and workers of the TECs must be established. And this mark establishes that this must be between forty and sixty per cent of the minimum wage, according to the type and degree of disability of the target persons, as well as the stability of the work places they occupy. Well, with this royal decree, we get to Catalonia and what do we find? We find that the Directorate-General for Social Economy drafts a proposal, a new order for the call for TECs, where this barem is incomplete. Again, the proposal of the Directorate-General is to make this umbrella smaller, and it becomes from twenty-five percent to sixty, the subsidy to the minimum wage; apart..., a series of limitations and conditions to which, if I have time, I will refer further. Counselor, the sector carries more than a decade's worth of underfunding in the subsidy of its wage mass. And the sector, all this time, has felt excuses of all kinds. Those excuses don't work anymore. They no longer serve, especially because they have state regulations that protect them, they guarantee that the minimum must be a 40_per_cent subsidy for certain people. He commented to the public that the role of TSEs is instrumental in ensuring the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. CETs are a basic tool and their economic sufficiency must be guaranteed. And then, then, if you want, we can talk about whether or not you need to rethink or refer to the model of protected work, which is important, but now we're talking about the emergency. Because, moreover, while the purpose of the grants does not have to be to obtain an economic return, analyzing the impact of these grants allows us to assess their utility in terms of added value generation. And, in this sense, there are several studies in the sector that establish that for each euro invested in CETs, the economic return is around 2.8 or 3.4_euro. Counselor, allocating resources to CETs is shown to be not an expense; it is an investment involving a major economic return, and, of course, also social. As I said, to the new order proposed for the Directorate-General we find ourselves with a substantial reduction in respect of the minimum wage subsidy. But, in addition, the sector has found itself with other outstanding aspects, conditions or limitations to subsidies that surely, right now, and with this little margin of manoeuvre that they have, will turn out to be inextricable. And for that, counselor, we ask you, as the most responsible of your department, at an early two things. The first, as I said, is to guarantee the new call that is complete with what the royal decree establishes on the grant: on salary support, which is a minimum between forty and sixty_per_cent. And the second, which, in addition to the first, the summons can be issued as soon as possible. We find ourselves with a call, let's say, already in the discount time, since the ideal would be that this call has come out during the first quarter of the year and we already find ourselves in the month of April. We understand that this new order is adapted to the requests of the royal decree, but more than six months have passed since its entry into force. We hope and desire that you will not be dilating in time, as we know that for many centers, especially the smaller ones, with a very tight threesome, time is golden. Counselor, what value do you have from the special work centers? Who appreciates you about the proposal of the new order of bases of the Directorate General? And if you today can assure us that for this new call will guarantee the establishment to the royal decree in the matter of subsidies for salary support. Catalonia is home to two hundred special work centres, which are waiting for their answer. Two-hundred special centres that occupy almost a thousand people with disabilities, of which eighty_per_cent are considered to be with special difficulties– eighty_per_cent. Let us hope, counselor, that today we can have your commitment to better finance. We do not ask him more than he is satisfied with what is established in the royal decree, and to replace himself in order to deal with other relevant aspects, such as the change in the model of the protected work or the insertion of it in the ordinary enterprise, to which I will refer in my reply time – which I no longer have time – because this is an extensive debate, which must be carried out in a calm and orderly manner. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.3.0	Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor, then has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. I would say that we have had a new show of what is already a certain classic in this Parliament: a modern standard – we could say so – which is that a Member of Parliament is coming out – does not offend me, Member of Parliament – of the PSC, especially in support of the doctrine of "you will be spavillating. What is the doctrine of "will you ever espavilarate? At least I consider it that way. It is this doctrine that explains that in many cases... you have made a historical reminder. We could pay ourselves, effectively, decades back, but also to more recent questions, from which this Parliament, mainly as a pioneer, in this sense– and I think we must not congratulate ourselves, all folds– generates our rights. That is to say, parliamentary activity, legislative activity, generates rights, that form part of the general consensus in Catalonia, that after they have its derivative to the State, to the Congress of Deputies, we usually also finished legislation to plant these rights. And it usually ended with a financial structure of these rights that speaks of co-responsibility, that speaks of co-financing, that means that one part is assumed by the Government of Catalonia, certainly, and another part is assumed by the Spanish State. What, however, happens later, the fruit of this doctrine of "will you ever spread out? That the State never fulfills its obligations. The State does not make the contributions that they touch on most of the financing of these rights that go directly to the most vulnerable people in the country. And yet, they come here and claim to us this extra effort that the Government of Catalonia is already making to deal with what the State does not bring. And the same speech that they make in this faristol we don't feel them doing, as at least with so much intensity, in Madrid, at the Congress of Deputies. And that's a numerical, objective, quantifiable reality. The State has not appeared during all these years in the financing of TECs. In fact, this has forced the Government of the Generality to make an extra effort. You've recognized it in a way. He spoke of the historic infra-financing of the special work centres, which, I insist, forced the Government of Catalonia to make an extra effort. Why, of course, what's going on? So that the sectoral conferences are set up with a distribution of resources with criteria that are not unique, that have to do with the people and not with the places of the special work centres, that in Catalonia are about seven thousand. And we, who have a degree of contracts in the special centers of work superior to the middle that would be close to us by people, receive resources depending on the people. And, therefore, there is a very clear brettxa from this point of view. And this, I insist, creates over-obligations to the Government of the Government of Catalonia for incomparency of the State, because it does not fulfill its obligations. And we'll do it again in 2022, certainly, because we don't want anyone to stay back. Precisely, as we are aware of the importance of the special work centres for their function in relation to productive activity, for their social function, but above all – and we do not lose sight of it – for their function in relation to insertion into the ordinary work world, we will continue to make this super-effort. How do you quantify this overeffort in 2022? So with an increase of 20-i-nou_per_cent, from 100 to 129_million euros. After the degranare and I'll talk about the programs that we set out from the government, from the Department of Business and Work, to implement this presuppositional increment. But there is, and we had to do it. And we do not claim that this infra-financing has been solved. I remind you that at the end of 2019, with the Cocarmi, the Government signed a manifesto in which it demanded adequate financing, a singularized financing, and, therefore, a financing that guarantees not only the functioning of the CETs, but also the dignity of all its places. And, in this sense, this historical trajectory has recently been added to two more elements that still make this stager more complex. On one side, an apparently positive element – and also our reading, obviously, as it could not be in any other way, with this positivity – which is the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage, certainly. It is true that it is a thousand euros, and in Catalonia we have quantified, with data from 2019, that it should be 1,239, 1,240 euros. And anyway, this year we'll check it out. Is that good news, the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage? Yeah. But this must then be reflected in the funding that we receive from the autonomous communities so that we can finance the special work centres, and that does not happen. And it does not happen either with this second element that you highlighted, that it is the Royal Decree 818/2021, which was made, certainly, without the consent of the governments of the autonomous communities and with some implications that return to the scene of the problem, with which the centrifugal State, passes to the rest of the administration the problem. That, I insist, we entomize, we entomize and we continue to entomize. So, what is it that we do in this sense? And to generate a compromise message, too, huh? In this sense. As I said before, we have increased funding by 29_million euros by 2022. This supposes a twenty-i-nou_per_cent more, which adds to the 50_million euros of increase that we have been incorporating in the different exercises that range from 2015 to 2022. We have increased from EUR 50_million in 2015 to 129 by 2022 – from 50 to 129. Therefore, a remarkable increase, forced by this inconsistency on the part of the State, but that, obviously, is essential in order to be able to face the present and above all the challenges of the future that have the special centers of work. Who are the challenges of the future that we identify and on which we are working? And it seems to me they're the fruit of an agreement, huh? , of a more or less consensual analysis not only with the sector, but I would say that politically here too we can agree very much. On one side, obviously, we want to preserve the model. We want to preserve the model of special work centres, linked, most of the time, to civic initiative, community initiative, initiative of families or ordinary people, which in the past have made a very important effort to create these special work centres, these two hundred special work centres, and we want to continue. Therefore, preservation of the model, of a model that we want to maintain, effectively, the main objective, which we must not lose sight of, which is to ensure a paid job, a job worthy of all the workers and workers of these special work centres, which must be – and this is a key element, from our point of view, of the model – linked to objects without a desire for work and, ultimately, oriented towards this last purpose, which is, of course, that of employment in the ordinary world, in the ordinary world. All right. These are the challenges of the future that I am convinced – in fact, you somehow also turned them into your intervention – which we can share. Now, there is also a series of problems that explain not just some short-term problems, but some more structural elements than we certainly need to continue working. In one band, a rotation index that is of a twenty-and-a-nine_per_cent middle and that is above the ordinary enterprise. Twenty-nine per cent rotation, which, in fact, is middle. In the case of special work centers that are SLs is a little higher, in the case of foundations and associations, a little lower; in any case, the middle is this twenty-i-nou_per_cent. And, on the other hand, some other problems, which are this thirty-five percent temporality in contracts, most of which are less than six months of duration. So, obviously, here we have to work there. And, finally, we must not lose sight of what we have to achieve much more incidence for what it does to the ability to insert the ordinary enterprise. These are the objectives and this is the historical deficit with which we work, and this is the over-effort of the Government of the Generality. And this is what they usually do to us, especially when we talk about rights of citizenship, which is, listen to me, what we say to the principle: it is law, it is law, we arrive at certain agreements that generate co-participation, but it turns out that the only part that goes as originally planned is that of the Government of Catalonia. So, we're doing this extra effort. We will continue to do this 2022 to accomplish these goals that I gave him. And we'll do it with the instruments that later, in the second intervention, will please me very much to be able to degenerate. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.5.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, I'll start with your home. We..., our intervention here today is not to say to him "you will already spat, what we come to tell him is that you do your job. Not that he's scavenging, that he's doing his job. [[Some applause.]] On the presuppositional question... a speech that, frankly, we can already wait for, is the speech that we listened to a year ago. It is worth saying that yesterday, yesterday late, the sectoral conference was held where the transfers from the State to the autonomous communities took place. Eix 3 is EUR 110_million. Even if we don't have the largest number of special work centres, we are the autonomous community that we have the most in this row 3. With an additional budget of EUR 391 million and EUR 51 million added to the MRR. In total, EUR 448 million for active employment policies, which you know perfectly well already that there is a great game which is free reassignment, which your Government can precisely allocate to special work centres. It's not an over-effort that his government has to do, as you said. He told us that he made an effort, an extra contribution, of 29_million euros. You know, counselor, that not all active employment policy parties have been executed in the past few years. They are estimated at a value of 50, 60_million euros that have not been executed. What are we complaining about, that after your government has to invest 29 million euros? In the event that you do carry out all your assumptions and do not arrive to dedicate to the sector 29_million euros more... then we can talk about this already. And, counselor, if you're doing your department's job so well, so well does your job, and the effort so great that you do, what is the sector complaining about? What's the complaint? If everything's done so well, what's the matter with the sector? F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... Before I had given myself time to talk about the proposal to include the ordinary company, a proposal for quotas that the CETs have to complete in the year. And here are several aspects to highlight: whose responsibility is it to guarantee the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the ordinary business? For a band, we have precisely the ordinary company, which has to complete with what is established in the law, the inclusion of two_per_cent of its staff when it exceeds fifty_per_cent of the workers. The ordinary enterprise and the public administration, too. And, counselor, you know that, too: this is not complete. The assimilation level is around '1,4, 1,5_per_cent. The inclusion of the two is not complete. And here's where it comes into play and there's a paper that's up to you, too: the violation of standards is your competence, it's the work of the Labour Inspectorate, which must be the guarantor that it's complete with this included or, if not, additionally, with alternative measures. The CETs are surely aware of their role and that one of their objectives must be to enable people to move to the ordinary business, but they want these transitions to be done with guarantees and respect for the free will of the workers to decide where to work. Solving the problems of the labor transition and ensuring the stability to the occupation of the ordinary enterprise are important facts that can be solved before establishing quotas in the insertion, because, moreover, we do not forget, the offer to the ordinary enterprise will not create the CETs. In conclusion, Counselor, we have several reptes per go forward, which I will summarise very briefly in four. Activation programs – I commented in my first intervention –: two_of_each_three people in working age are inactive, and on many occasions they are people with more training and skills than enough. But here there is an elementary question: if there is no demand, there will hardly be an offer. According to the question, to improve the financing, the salary support of the CETs. We have as reference what is established in the royal decree, and, if it should, from here, improve the proposal. Third, contribute to making CETs more competitive so that they can grow and generate economic added value, so that they can reinforce their social impact, especially taking into account the current moment of change in the model, in the product market. And, fourthly, we stop to think about the inclusion of the ordinary enterprise: what must be the role of the CETs, the role of the public administration and also that of the ordinary enterprise. Wait, Counselor, we're still on track to approach these reps. If this is the government's will, then he'll be able to count on us for his side. And, finally, counselor, he didn't answer me. Will they comply with what is set up in the royal decree? I would ask you, please, if I could answer that question. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.7.0	Finally, in the turn of the reply, has the word the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.8.0	Member of the Commission said: "Home, it is foreseeable, the presuppostari speech. Lucky you're predictable, say so, huh? , the presuppositionary incremental speech we have to make, because, if not, we would be at 50_millions of 2015, and we are at these 129 of 2022. Or, what is needed for the State and for drawing far from the supposed efforts made by the Government of the State is not needed for Catalonia. That is to say, the efforts each administration makes are read according to the political color that is defense, deputy. And here you propose, for example, the distribution of the sectoral conference, which is 100_million euros, for the CETs, certainly, but also for the rest of the policies, and I am talking about 129_million euros; therefore, an increase of 29_million euros. And I believe, modestly, honestly, that it does not interest him to enter into the debate of the presuppositional execution, if we compare the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia with the assumptions of the State in all its spheres – in all its spheres. He was talking about the work of the Labour Inspectorate. Fantastic. I agree. If you want, we don't go to the ministry to say, "Listen to me, we have a presuppositional endowment to increase the Labour Inspectorate." We have the resources to have more inspectors and work inspectors. Why don't we have them? Why can't we fill these seats? Because who's not doing the job is the state government. And then we're being claimed here by the Labour Inspectorate. So we're going to Madrid, we're going to the ministry to claim it: "Ecculti'm, among other things, to check that the law of integration is complete, we need job inspectors. We have resources in Catalonia. Please donate them, donate these seats. Go to Madrid to complain. In any case, Congresswoman, listen to me, we... the layout respects the special centers of work is compromises to fulfill the objectives we have said. And I was commenting on some structural deficiencies – you also talked about it – of the seventy in the CETs and the thirty out. Maybe, maybe, it's the law, which is forty years old, which you put in value when you intervened in your initial intervention..., maybe it's gone. Maybe it doesn't fill out the objectives that were initially set. Perhaps what is at stake is to review, with political consent and with the administrations of the autonomous communities, the legal framework, and not to make decrees like the royal decree that you mentioned and that was made, as I said, without compromise and without consensus with the autonomous communities. In any case, I told him before he wanted to disengage who the programs are because the people who are listening to us, and specifically also the addresses and people who work in the special work centers, make it clear who is the effort we are making to try to achieve these goals that we have marked, and that there are no others who, in the end, as we have said and as we have repeatedly said, insert it into the ordinary work world. In any case, we've talked about the extra presupposition in conjunction. We also want to maintain, in the distribution of these resources, the structural axes of the previous orders, certainly, because we think that they will encourage the maintenance of the model, but also what we want is to make the administrative processing of the subsidies more expeditious. Therefore, commitments in the fund, in the pillars that identify the model of Catalonia, and, at the same time, facilitate access to subsidies. We have also increased the line of support for employment to the ordinary enterprise, which you claimed, with more than 4_million euros, up to 15_million euros. Therefore, here there is a real and effective will in this sense. We have also established, in the same line, a line of support work grants that will amount to 12_million euros in two years – more effort. We are also developing a transition program for people with premature aging with €6_million, another specific problem that we are looking to act on. And we've established that the SOC grant lines... By the way, we're deploying the active employment policies with a very high degree of compliment, more than eighty_per_cent– more than eighty_per_cent. And, among SOC subsidisation lines, in occupational training actions for employment, we target at least five percent of the total budget for persons with disabilities. And, finally, we are deploying the program of accreditations of competitions with the Consortium for Continuing Education, also, in this case, very directed to the professional certifications of the workers and workers of the CETs. In short, we are making a very great, presuppositional, compromise effort; an effort that sees to supplement that which does not bring the State. And in any case, I make him a proposal, as I did before. Listen to me, let's go, as we have done with the entities of Catalonia, to demand a better financing by the State. A just financing, which I want to see with the places of the special centers of work and not with the population, with the population, with the demographic pes to the State. Because here there is a gap that affects the special work centres; not you, not me, not this room, but directly the places of the special work centres. Therefore, we have a common front. Surely, with what you have said here, you must agree that we can make a very clear list of which are the demands that we can make together with the Spanish Government to improve the living conditions of the workers and workers of the special work centres. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.9.0	Let us pass the 14th item of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the policies of gathering refugees, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. [[Question to the Government on policies for the reception of refugees]] [[300-00146/13]] And he has the word, to make the presentation to him, Congressman Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... good morning, deputies, deputies. Leave me a couple of previews before we start. First, therefore, show the support and a hug to our company, the Oriol Puig, and the photojournalist David Melero, who have been detained and seem to be being transported right now to the airport to occupied Sahara, Western Sahara, by the Moroccan police. Hence, from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, a strong embrace and all the support. [[Greetings.]] And then, now they have informed us..., to greet also four refugees of the war of Ukraine who have arrived in Catalonia. Therefore, to greet them also at this parliamentary session, in which, therefore, taking advantage of the pretext of the wave of people who have had to flee from the war in Ukraine, and who join so many others who unfortunately have to flee from different points of the world, and that many of them arrive in our country, in Catalonia, we want today to make an inquiry to the Government. It is 10_million displaced, those who have already provoked the war in Ukraine, of which 4, according to calculations, estimates, have been able to leave the country. These are unprecedented figures, but they must also be analysed. They get along, don't they? , these 4_million who managed to leave the country, for one gang, for a conflict that is extremely violent, but, on the other, would not agree, these 4_million people, if there was not an opening of doors on the part of the European Union, is to say, if there were no legal lives, safe lives, and, in this case, quick lives out of the country. In this sense, the people who are engaged in activism, right? In favor of legal and secure lives, when they were in Ukraine, as was our case, on the Polish-Ukrainian border..., we saw quickly that his work was not there. In any case, there was a humanitarian aid, there was a solidarity aid, but there was no need for this activism or this claim or monitoring of the lack of legal and secure lives. And that's a date without precedents. We have been looking for these previous days in which there has been such an important forced migration and in which the doors of the European Union, in this case, or of any other country, have been completely opened. Congratulate us, ho celebrem, in no case ho criticem. So good this example serves from now on for many others, because for which I am sure it has served, from the outset, it is to show that it is possible, that it is possible that a volume of people forced to flee their country can be quickly and logistically welcomed on a continent where there are more than 500_million inhabitants, such as the European continent. Therefore, first lesson: it has served to disable that it is not possible to accommodate so many people when they escape from a war. But there is also a doubt that I have not managed to resolve these days, and it is that, in this flight from these people or in this acceptance of these people before the European Union, there has been virtually no talk of rebroadcasting or hate speech. All the opposite: even the extreme right, which is very strongly opposed to the arrival of people, has not done so either. I wonder if all this has to do, for example, with the fact that this time the communication media – and also from administrations and governments – have made an explanation, a good explanation, of what the conflict is about, but above all the causes for which these people have to leave, and, at the same time, they have also explained very well what the processes of assembly are, how they are working, etc. So... it's like, the information, the explanation, it's avoided, it's disabled a whole series of rumors, a whole series of fake news, they've left zero space to any of the hate speech. It may be that this is the case, or it may be the case that it is the other way around: that this citizen's response, that this generalised response in favour of the gathering of these people, has forced the administrations to respond quickly. I'm afraid you're not the second. I'm afraid it's the first, and that behind this gathering so fast and so bulky of Ukrainian people there is also a geopolitical issue. Same as the other way around, right? When we see that the European Union blocks or externalizes its borders with Turkey or with Morocco, it therefore uses people who are migrated to make political, to make geopolitical. We can also hear or perceive that this time it is going backwards, that is, it is using the reception of all these people to make its geopolitical front of Putin. Otherwise, you wouldn't understand why in a state like the Spanish State the year passed, the last year of what we have data, according to Walking Borders, the organization of Helena Maleno, on the southern border or trying to get to the Spanish State 4,404 people died. It is the point of the world where more migrants died, repeatedly, because it is not the first year on which the southern border of Spain is the deadliest point in the world. And here I refer to a phrase from the Abascal, a few days ago, which made a big difference. He said: "Listen, they are not the same refugees who arrive from the conflict in Ukraine as the rest, who arrive, so, in this case, on the southern border – they captivated them from invasion, in this case. These statements..., when I listened to them, I basically thought: "It's honest, it's honest. Because Abascal just says what everyone thinks. What everyone thinks and what the administrations and the government are implementing, which is a totally different policy, with very concrete guidelines, with open doors, with legal lives, with safe lives, that in less than twenty-four hours you have been able to create the border. When you got here, you got the date..., you got it, because now it's true that it takes a month or two to get it – in any case, compared to the rest –; one time you have this date, in twenty-four hours you have the processing of temporary protection. Unpublished, too. Therefore, simply Abascal... When he listened to his statements he thought: "Abascal what is sincere. And that's it. And just... [[Some applause.]] No, no. There are no flowers for Abascal. It is simply honest, because it is what most of the governments of the European Union are doing: a very important difference between a series of refugees and others. Therefore, the second element to be taken into account. And how to posititize it? So it's very simple: let's use this pretext, this pretext that has been very well explained and that we've seen that there have been no hate speeches like those people always make, to explain that any reason that makes you run away from your country, from your country, is as valid as any other, and that any country that you run away from is as valid as any other. [[Greetings.]] In any case, I'd also like to report a couple of things, because these open doors haven't been for everyone either. They have been for most people, but there are a number of Ukrainian minorities who have not had this fate or who have seen each other with difficulty in getting out. We ourselves were able to prove it at Lviv's station, when non-white people didn't have priority at the time of getting on these trains and it was very late their departure, or people who still couldn't get out of the country, as is the case with trans women. To trans women, to Ukraine, for the most part, they are not allowed to dig the border, because they are not considered as women, and, therefore, are forced to start a migratory path this time without legal coverage, and therefore without security. It is to say, using only the old and dangerous appeals, certainly, of the mafias in order to get out of the country, and, in this case, that they are not sent to the front line. Another coincidence with the arrival of refugees. Those who follow and monitor the arrival of refugees from many points of the world we have seen as..., it has coincided – we do not know whether casually or not, but it looks like it does – the hint of the departure of Ukrainian people and the arrival here in the Spanish State with the fit completely carved for the people – and I am sure that in the department I am aware of it, because I know that in fact very well the follow-up – that they arrive or that they continue to arrive, in this case, after the occupation by the Taliban of Afghanistan. He's cut himself completely, he's never dreamed of getting there. And, incidentally, it also coincided with the statements of the Spanish government, didn't it? , purchasing practically the thesis of the Moroccan Government respects its occupied territories. And they can also, with these coincidences, draw some interesting enough political conclusion. But the political conclusion..., it is not a conclusion, that they are objective..., is that Spain continues to deny the noranta_per_cent of asylum petitions that are presented – the noranta_per_cent. The same cipher that denied the Ukrainian citizens before the 24th of February. At the noranta_per_cent of Ukrainians claiming asylum to the Spanish State refused. And they came from a war, too. Of a war that was, in any case, controlled in an area, but that was there. And Ishi refused the noranta_per_cent. Not now. So I think the conclusions we can draw, right? , the people we dedicate ourselves to studying the border, the transit to the border, and freedom or, in any case, the non-freedom of movement, are interesting. Therefore, we would also like to know who the conclusions of the department are in this sense. And, above all, as they have been reinforced before this gathering of people who have also arrived in Catalonia – some disset_ thousand, if I am not mistaken – on the part of the department. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.11.0	Then the word has the Counsellor of Equality and Feminisms, the Lady Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.12.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Congressman... I want to start, too, and end, in fact, with a reflection. And the first one is fully consistent with what he's raised. In recent years there has been a glaring failure to comply with the obligations of states in the field of asylum, and this has demonstrated the European response to the most recent crises, has it not? , of human rights of Syria or Afghanistan. And in Afghanistan we already lived in the first person, because we already existed as the council of Equality and Feminisms. And, as you also pointed out, the asylum and migration policy of the Spanish State is a reflection of this strong Europe that has become commonplace both the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, with such a low rate of positive international protection resolutions; with a southern border where there are large cases of police brutality, hot evictions, not to speak of such slow processing of work permits and residence or family reunification processes, which are in addition to the flagrant violation of human rights that are the CIS. And we want to hear it this way too. We celebrate the quick response and the abst of the response in the case of Ukraine, because it shows that it can be different. Why would this European temporary protection directive that had been almost twenty years in lethargy have to be applicable in other types..., right? , in other cases of Belic conflicts, refugees come from where they come, they have the colour of skin or the religion they have. Because it is proving that there is a real guarantee of human rights for people fleeing the war. And if that is not the case, we will also agree to name him by his name: it is institutional racism, is it not? The one who fights. Catalonia is the main gateway right now to the Spanish State by land of people fleeing the war. And it should also be borne in mind that it is obvious that refugees tend to move there where they have anticipated links, whether family or other personal networks. Having Catalonia, previously at the height of the war, the most important Ukrainian community in the Spanish State, with about 24,000 people, was expected, therefore, to have an important rebuttal. And, for this reason, on February 24, 2022, we began to prepare, precisely, for this rubble and for this welcome with full guarantee of rights. This week, April 4th, we counted a total of 17,148 Ukrainian refugees staying in Catalonia – not say arrivals, because, clearly, "arrivals..., they can be people who then follow their itinerary to other points in the State, to Portugal. We are talking about the people who are already, therefore, staying here, who are distributing in the following way: some 6,500 to the emergency room, basically large hotel equipment that has had to be activated in coastal areas managed by the staff of Red Creu, but also by CEAR and APIP-ACAM, and the rest have been allocated to the Ukrainian community residing in Catalonia, to whom they may recognize their solidarity effort. And not only recognize, but, as I will explain later, also prevent this solidarity friendship from assuming its own impoverishment. The actions that we have had at the end of the Department of Equality and Feminisms are structured into three main axes of intervention: institutional coordination and support to the locals; on the other hand, assistance to refugees in the emergence phase, and a third, which is in progress, which is... – the attention also, huh? , but... – the third, which is a major challenge, is the planning of the collide phase. Because a refugee person doesn't have a temporary square, does he? The screenplay always has to be as short as it gets, doesn't it? Why, when can they come back? A lot of people want to come back, it's obvious. When he's able. Not only when the conflict is over, but when there is a minimum of security, a minimum of reconstruction, a minimum of guarantees of being able to resume life. And in all this planning that we've made of the different actions... incorporating, at all times, the perspective of gender and the perspective of equal treatment and non-discrimination. For what it does to institutional coordination and support to local authorities, therefore, the Directorate General for Migration, Refugees and Anti-Racism activated permanent coordination with the network of professionals linked to the local authorities' reception service to guide and attend to the needs of refugees and to make a record of the arrivals. Activation, also, of contingency tables both at national and territorial level, of vegueria, to coordinate the response of the departments of the Generalitat, local authorities and entities specialized in refugees. A permanent follow-up to meetings and local councils on circuits, procedures, protocols of operation. This Tuesday we approved a temporary program of reinforcement to incorporate into the councilhouse a few-twenty more professionals who do these tasks of attention to citizenship, psychological support and legal advice, lock in gatherers and lawyers with specialization in right of asylum and trafficking of human beings. We are also preparing a resolution of an extraordinary transfer to the gatherings of more than twenty thousand inhabitants and local councils to strengthen their services to gather migrants and refugees. And, together with the Department of Social Rights, we are preparing a grant call to help the gatherings to rescue themselves from the care expenses of refugees who have advanced with their own resources, resources that we will advance that the State has to rescue, because these are not the foundations that the State has allocated to them because they are European foundations that have been activated in the framework of temporary protection. For what it does to the care of refugees, therefore, from an initial, different mechanisms of information, to activate the 012 in Ukrainian attention all the days of the week – which was then replaced by a more global phone, a 900, of attention of the joint departments of the Generality –..., and a web. Also 112 are in Ukrainian. At the Fira de Barcelona, one of the three reception centers, attention and referral enabled by the State for the processing of temporary protection, we have enabled a stand close to the Generalitat that acts as front office to provide information of all the Generalitat's services. Also in the different languages all the days of the week, from eight to eight. We've edited a code of information about rights and the logic of preventing human trafficking, as it reports on documentation, jobs and geolocations. And we're also incorporating the call for attention to male and male rapes from the LGTBI Comprehensive Care Service Network, which we've also distributed to the entire territory. In the field of ethnic discrimination or LGTBI is expected to translate into different languages the complaint form of the recently created Protection and Promotion Body for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination. And by going to needy coverage, it is obvious that the most immediate need has followed the activation of these emergency accommodation, because the places that there were equipped with the state shelter program – for which we have commented before, right? , which we have agreed to sub-rate – they were totally insufficient, to facilitate these accommodation. The public network of hostels has also been made available. Many of these equipments are managed by Red Cree. And we've been open, and we're going to have to keep open, as far as the needs require, more equipment than this guy. We have established performance protocols with different departments and joints to ensure proper attention to needs. For example, the Department of Health has already distributed more than three thousand health posts; Education guarantees the schooling of the students, obviously– there are already more than 2,300 children and adolescents in school–; the circuit of gathering of unaccompanied minors from the Department of Health; the promotion of employment by Enterprise and Treball; free transport to Ukrainian refugees by Vice-President; strengthening of language training by Culture. And, in the case of Equality and Feminisms, more than all the coordination and activation of services that are already close to the department – such as, for example, male violence services, LGBTI discrimination – we have also set aside a service to deal with traffic situations of persons operating for the specialized entity SICAR with the UNHCR's advice. And we continue to be very careful about these particular and solidary initiatives, so that we can channel them through the circuits and contact the specialized entities and the corresponding institutions. Beyond emergency care, refugee people have every right and we need to be able to guarantee them without straining municipal services. This is also a reality we need to manage right now. This is why we are preparing a deal with the Catalan Habitat Agency and the Department of Equality and Feminisms to provide and manage all these residential resources to people and distribute them equitably to the territory. Simultaneously, as I said, because the Ukrainian community living here is not impoverished, which has put so much solidarity in it, we are preparing from the government measures to support the autonomy of refugees, and we are obviously not demanding, also, then, the post-State bailout. The last thought he wanted to do: this crisis of human rights also shows that the centralist model without the co-decision of the governments does not work, neither to manage the ups and downs, nor for the necessary territorial balance, nor does it serve this short look at the state program that has always predominated. And that's why we're designing a model of close catality, with a working group of the Committee for the Reception of Refugees, where we participate in government, in local, specialized entities. And as we move forward in its definition, in keeping with Parliament, as well as in the periodic meetings convened by the President with parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.13.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the economic impact of the war]] [[300-00151/13]] Let's move on to the fifteenth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the economic impact of the war, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.14.0	Thank you, President, and good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, deputies, deputies. I want to begin my intervention by making a statement from those who say everything: "The Spanish State is the state of the world that has suffered the most failures in the long history. In the last five hundred years it has suffered thirteen failures, ahead of Venice – which it has had a god –, Ecuador – which it has had new – and Xile – which it has had eight. This is a sad rung that encapsulates the Spanish State, together with other negative rungs; unfortunately, this is the type of rungs that normally encapsulates the Spanish State. At present, the Spanish State has a debt that is already up to one hundred and twenty per cent of GDP, and this means that it does not have the resources to overcome the new crisis in which we are just beginning to enter, the crisis provoked by the war in Ukraine. This crisis is the third in the 21st century. The first took place in 2008, with the debt crisis. The second was the crisis of the covid, from which we still haven't recovered. We were just starting to do it, and we're already having a third crisis. And we have had other crises, small but not minor ones, which are crises arising from the climate effect: crises like Gloria or Filomena, which have still left us effects that we have not been able to overcome due to lack of resources from the State. All these crises have a minimum denominator for Catalans, and we don't have a state in favor, a state that you will have because we overcome these crises and because we get out with the least possible impact. In these crises we lose, the Catalans, muds and skeletons, and, moreover, take advantage of it to re-centralize the State. We lose our skills, we lose our welfare, we lose our power, we lose our businesses, and we lose our future. The 2008 debt crisis meant that the Spanish caixas system, which, as you know, was of Catalan origin, had given very good results for many decades. The crisis of 2008 also brought a record twist, of the twenty-i-three_per_cent, of which the Spanish State has not yet noticed. 2007 Spanish had a height of eight_per_cent and today still tea of thirteen_per_cent. After rising to twenty-three, he was able to go down to thirteen, but no further than thirteen. We have a god in Catalonia. It's not that we're very good, but we're obviously under the Spanish state. In fact, Spain is the only – the only – country of the European Union that in the past fifty years has suffered three crises in which it has exceeded the twenty_per_cent of the time, another memory of these denials. And with the cove, what happened to us? So another effect of this covid crisis is that our companies are in debt. In fact, they've been over-indebted. They're not painting it hard yet. Why? Because there was a two-year grace with the return of ICOs. But you see now: we will see how many of these companies will be able to overcome these claims, and, more importantly, when we return to a new crisis. But, in addition, a mechanism had been planned to be able to go to the countercycle and generate wealth, in this crisis of the covid, that were the Next Generation. And what happened to us with the Next Generation? So look, that the Spanish State in Catalonia is only inverted, as Councillor Giró reminded us later, 7.8_percent of all the resources of all the European funds that invest in the State, when we represent the dinosaur_per_cent of GDP, as you well know, or the seven_per_cent of the population. Gentlemen of the PSC and ordinary people, you will be responsible for this, that you continue to feel that way. What are they doing to fight because this isn't like this? Actually, I'm telling you very easily: you know how they could fix it, right? They could have arranged it, so the SEAT Batteries Factory came to Catalonia. Why couldn't they do that? [[Some applause.]] Why didn't they do that? We haven't seen them because we didn't come to this factory in Catalonia; on the contrary, it makes us feel bad that you went to an autonomous community that curiously govern you two. And that's what we're gonna have to look at. [[Widow's remorse.]] The PP, far from the history of these past twenty years, thirty years, has emptied Spain, has made Spain empty, and now the PSOE and We are emptiing Catalonia of investments. "So much so that we will be very, very loving. And the crisis in Ukraine that we are now entering, what is carrying us? So look, first of all, rain on mule. Now we have an increase in energy that is priceless: electricity, gas energy and fuels in general. And this causes an inflation that also reminds Europe: the deu_per_cent, practically, this past month, when the European average is 7.5_per_cent, and the countries with which we should be admiring are between the five and the six_per_cent. Spanish people are always more: deu_per_cent. But that too is implying a clear impoverishment. Pensions..., pensioners have seen how the last two years have lost a doze_per_cent of purchasing power. So now, from a lead, a deu_per_cent more. They've lost a hundred more of their purchasing power. And low wages – wages, which in this country can be less than a thousand euros, not like France, for example, which is here on the side and has a forty_per_cent more interprofessional minimum wages–..., so back and forth the low wages deflated, let me just, like that, in a deu_per_cent. All at once. A new lead. This is what happens to be in the Spanish State. And what impact has this Ukrainian crisis had on businesses? So look, according to the not-for-day chamber report, fifty-seven percent of businesses tell us that they have problems dealing with raw materials. Or forty-five percent tell us that the prices of the first materials have risen between a god and a twenty-five percent. And that's gonna end up at the press... or end up getting the gas companies to do it. And Pimec's study a few weeks ago, what do you say? So the sixty-two-per-cent of this country's small and medium-sized company is patenting heavy consequences for energy pricing. And what do you say to us? That is putting at risk 320,000 places of work. But this study of Pimec tells us something that is very important – and I take advantage of it to make a call to journalists who may be watching us through the cameras, because I'm pretty sure that this hasn't come out on the front page of every newspaper in the country – : Pimec's study tells us that, in the face of the system of fixing marginalist prices, the energy companies of this country will win this year between 33,000 and 78,000_million euros. I insist. Sorry, I was wrong: between 33,000 and 76,000_million euros of extraordinary benefits, fallen benefits of the cell. I want to remind you that the generality's assumption is 38,000, huh? So between 33,000 and 76,000_million euros. In fact, these six energy companies had a record benefit, 2021, of EUR 10,000_million, but only one quarter of 2021 we had an energy price of EUR 100 per megawatt/hour. Now we're already two hundred, three hundred, and we've reached five hundred euros per megawatt/hour. Therefore, they are credible, these data that you tell us Pimec. That's a scandal. This is barbaric. This... I don't understand how the lords of PSOE and Podemos don't put the crit to the cell, because they're allowing these oligopolies businesses to continue to enrich the small and medium-sized businesses and vulnerable consumers in this country. Just remember the turntable doors. Names like Felipe González, Borrell, Solana, Sevilla, Salgado, Montilla – all of them from the PSOE –, Aznar, Rat, Martín Villa, Piqué, Acebes, De Guindos – all of them from the PP – all of them had a share of the energies of this country, with succulent monthly amounts of emoluments. I insist on communication media: 33,000 to 76,000_million euros. And what has the Spanish State done to improve energy prices? Look, for the time being, he's made the first ridiculous: making Algeria angry with the self-determination of Sahara. And Algeria has already said that the only country – the only country – to which the price of gas will increase will be, curiously, the Spanish State. Congratulations, gentlemen of the commons; congratulations, gentlemen of the PSC. And what didn't the Spanish State do? So the system of marginalist prices has not changed, when Europe is saying that it can do so. And what didn't he do? So he didn't pay off the downside benefits of energy, when Europe tells him that he can do it and Italy is already doing it. I, in change, has announced aid worth 16,000_million euros, which – alas! – 10,000 of these 16,000 are in the form of ICOs, that is to say, we will re-borrow our peppers. I have already announced 488_million euros to help the electro-intensive and gas-intensive peppers – 488 –, when the big companies will win more than 33,000_million euros of benefits fallen from the cell. For all this, counselor, we ask you today why tell us how you see it, what is the situation you see, what effects it expects on the assumption [[remorse of the voice]] What mechanisms do we have to overcome this situation with the skills we have. And I end up with a final statement. The Spanish State... [[Widow's remorse.]] He's not nervous, gentlemen of the PSC. The Spanish State has never – ever –... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The Spanish State has never aged for the real interests of Spanish and Catalans, but for the oligarchy, for the oligopolises, because, in the end, they are its revolving doors. Only with a state in favor, only with an independent state, will we succeed in overcoming the crises of the 21st century. We'll wear three, but they'll come more. Mr. Desquerra, Mr. CUP, at every crisis we're in a hurry. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.15.0	Then has the word the Councillor of Economy and History, the Lord Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.16.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Mr Canadell... If we had to sort out a single day to condense the history of the world in the last fifty years, many of us would see on November 9, 1989, the day that the Berlin wall fell and the world was opened, the day that the planet is made global. I'm beginning to think that the day that the Russian tanks entered Ukraine, the 24th of February 2022, could pass to history as the day that the world is once again closed. That is why, Mr Canadell, the question I have today about the economic impact of the war, from my point of view, went beyond the humanitarian, energetic and geopolitical crisis that we are going through because of the war in Ukraine. We are witnessing a historic change in the way the world economy and international relations function. And the war of Ukraine, dissolvingly, may still be the effect, not the cause, of the current situation. Therefore, Mr. Canadell, I will not take away your questions, but I do want to make a manifest that we must be very curious about the decisions we make, because we have entered an unexplored territory until now. In these circumstances, we must keep our heads cool and act with as much determination as with prudence and, above all, with the gaze laid in the long term. For what it does to the questions you raise, it must be very clear that before the war it began to draw a picture of high inflation, mainly caused by the price of energy and raw materials and by the squandering of some basic industrial components. But it should be remembered that advanced economies, like Catalan, have begun to emerge from the substratum of the pandemic with good growth and employment data clearly, significantly, over the Spanish middle. Therefore, it is not distressed to think that our foundations are solid for dealing with this crisis. But once again we insist that we are in an unknown territory, and it is good that, in this chamber, the Catalan chamber, too, we are fully aware of it. The consequences of a war here on the coast, at the heart of Europe, are unpredictable, and yet they are more when one of the contenders is the world's first exporter of natural gas, and the second, an exporter of oil. What we can do now is take immediate action to deal with the situation, and that's exactly what we're doing. We have approved, this past Tuesday, a decree freezing the tax on CO2 emissions in mechanical traction vehicles, a measure that directly affects three_million taxpayers. In addition, we have suspended for six months a fee applied to fishing. We have increased the tax on electrical production facilities, which directly affects, Mr. Canadell, three of these great companies that you mentioned. The aim of the first two measures is to alleviate the tax burden and economic pressure borne by families, small and medium-sized enterprises and workers and self-employed people. And the third measure, in change, as I said, has a structural character, and its objective is to have more resources, to the Government of Catalonia, to wait for the energetic transition that I will be talking about at once. In addition to this, we have provided – with an extraordinary effort, because resources are very limited – a line of credit of 39_million euros to help, through the Catalan Institute of Finance, pages, branches and enterprises in the country's primary sector. And we have expanded in six more months the lack of loans granted to the ICF because of the covid. Finally, we have reviewed the public works contract system to ensure that jobs without losing money due to inflation and the rise in the prices of raw materials can be hard to complete. Because, if we don't do that, a year like 22, which – I remember – we had the public investment doubled with 2020, from 2,000 to 4,000_million euros, we couldn't continue with the public work needs that the country requires. Mr. Canadell, in relation to the government of the state, I'll tell him he's going late and ill. I'm late, and I'm sorry, but I'm not. I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm It has unilaterally approved measures affecting the entrances of the Generalitat. Before the war, to contain the effects of the rise in energy prices, the State lowered the special tax on electricity. He did so with a decree from September 21st, which reduced the tax from 5.1 to 0.5. The measure had to last three months, however, as electricity continued for the clouds, generating high taxes for the city and excessive profits for the companies, then the State extended the rebate with another decree of the law until April 30th. And you know what happened last week? So a third decree extended the term three more months until June 30th. It may seem to them that this is a timely, sensible and proportionate measure, but it will also seem disloyal to them when I tell them who is responsible for this measure. Because precisely the special tax on electricity is a given tax, a given tax to the Generality. It is an imposition on the recaptancy of which it went..., well, "it was not, rather, going entirely to the public finances of Catalonia. By this measure the State has managed, without compensating us - and without consulting us - to us, 190_million euros. At these times, the direct impact of the war on the assumptions of the Generality can be measured at 750_millions. And that's why we've asked the state government to extend the current 0.6 deficit limit to reach the u percent. And that would mean having a safety deposit box of 1,000_million euros. We also asked Minister Maria Jesús Montero to create a specific fund, as was done with the covid, in order to attend to all the emergencies that we have. I have expressed, Mr Canadell, the impact of the crisis and I have told him of the government's measures to deal with it, but it does allow me to recover the initial reflections with which my intervention began. The moment we are calling for answers that go beyond the Spanish State or the Government of Catalonia, answers that can contain the effects of the war. The open world – the open world – of global trade and of abundant and cheap raw materials, could be in retreat. International tensions are no longer having a regional dimension, as they had been from the decomposition of the Soviet Union, which reminded the beginning of my intervention, and are recovering today the intensity of the second half of the 20th century. Let's begin to see that there's scurrying between superpowers, and when the tension is global, the economy is regional. In this panorama of uncertainty and the threat of armed conflicts, energy, as it passed to the second half of the 20th century, is a strategic element of speech. In economic terms, we have seen how the crisis in Ukraine is a very bitter key. And here, Members and Members, I have to tell you that in the last few years in Catalonia, you haven't done your homework, and that's what I think we need to say. The war is still showing us more clearly the need to transform our energy model and the urgency of moving from a fossil fuel model to a renewable energy model. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I would want is for us to go into history with those we didn't know how to read or hear what the history was asking of us. And at this point we need to speed up the energy transition. It cannot be that only 16,6_percent of the energy generated in Catalonia comes from renewable sources and that, in change, the Spanish State is already forty-six. That's what we need to do, and we need to do it right away. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the fiscal over-effort of Catalan families]] [[300-00152/13]] Let's move on to the seventh item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the fiscal over-effort of Catalan families, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.18.0	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, dear Counselor Giró. The truth is that I must start this intervention by recognizing the fate I have in two respects. On the one hand, be able to make an inquiry after having listened to you by responding to another inquiry. I think that's a short-term luck, because you've already given some arguments about what your position is about some of the aspects I'm going to put on the table myself. And another luck, which is structural and is a recognition of his way of making parliamentarianism, is that the truth is that it is a pleasure to ask a counselor who has a respectful style, a moderate talent, which allows the debate. And that makes it easy to tell you things that you probably won't like, but that I am convinced that, said from respect, you will fit with sportiness and with absolute naturality, and the debate will be fluid. Look, Mr. Counsellor, when the Government of the Generalitat and you, as head of the economy, talk about the situation that has been created in Catalonia, Spain and the world as a result of the war in Ukraine, the invasion of Ukraine by Putin, by the Russian Federation, it seems that the autonomous and national governments have nothing to say or little to do, have little margin, in view of this situation. And that's not exactly the case, Counselor. You know that, as an autonomous government, Catalonia has a huge array of competences that allows you a considerable margin to make decisions that go precisely to the benefit of all the citizens of Catalonia, and, above all, to the benefit of the middle and working classes of our community. And yet, you said before that you did not want to go into history because you were a politician more or a government more than you did not live up to the circumstances of what the historical moment asked of your government. Well, in this regard, I believe that the Government of the Generalitat, the current Government of the Generalitat, with you at the head of the Department of Economics, should assume that it is time, at last, to put an end to this trend towards the systematic increase in taxes suffered by the citizens of Catalonia. The tendency of successive governments of the Generalitat, especially since the tripartite years, is to increase taxes more and more. And the citizens of Catalonia, not only with the present crisis, but with the previous ones and with the turn of the years, we are suffering from a tax policy, a tax policy, which we could describe, without fear of making mistakes, as voracious, a policy that really detracts resources from the citizens for the greater glory of an absolutely hypertrophied administration and with a number of superfluous organs that do not lead to any benefit, in terms of quality of life, for the citizens of Catalonia, which I believe would at least be appropriate to reformulate or recast. In this regard, Mr Councillor, I would like to put some data on the table that they show, will show before the Chamber and will show to the citizens of Catalonia as a whole that the complaints of many Catalan citizens, suffering Catalan citizens, taxpayers, why we have to pay Catalans more than other Spanish citizens, it is not, as you claimed, the fault of the Spanish Government, it is not the fault of the evil Spanish State, but precisely of the tax policy of the successive governments of the Generalitat. In this regard, let me tell you, Mr. Counsellor, that Catalonia is still the autonomous community or one of the autonomous communities that has the income tranches..., the IRPF tariff that affects the most damaging autonomous area for citizens of income from working classes, middle classes and workers. In this respect, for example, a Catalan who earns an income of thirty_ thousand euros a year pays 5,102,90_ euros a year, and a Madridn, 4,795,14 per year; an Andalusian, 4,939,50 per year. The difference is obvious, and in these income tranches the importance of paying that amount less is considerable, because that affects the family economy considerably. You, with your voracious tax policy, are greatly damaging the ability of Catalans to allocate their resources, their own resources, with which Catalans earn our living, to what we consider... A Catalan who pays a payroll, a Catalan who buys a house, a Catalan who signs a mortgage, a Catalan who rents a house..., a Catalan, simply, who owns a patrimony or puts gasoline pays more taxes than a Spanish non-Caltan or the rest of our Spanish compatriots. And that is not the responsibility, as you intended, of the Government of Spain, but it is primarily the responsibility of the Government of the Generalitat. In this regard, I have been drawn to the attention of Mr Canadell's previous question, where he spoke about pensions and how harmful the Spanish pension system is for Catalans. Let me tell you that, in this respect, we Catalans have a considerable deficit in terms of pensions with the rest of the Spaniards. The data, at least until 2018, told us that in Catalonia we collected 20,000_million in terms of pensions, and the expenditure is 22,000_million. Therefore, we are deficient, in this sense. Catalonia contributes a lot to the whole of Spain. Catalonia is a net contributor, like other communities, such as the Community of Madrid, the community of Baleares. They are, in fact, the only three net contributing communities. And, therefore, Catalonia's importance for the Spanish economy is crucial. And I want to make this clear because for our group it is important, and I believe that, in addition, justice is done, with the fiscal effort of the citizens of Catalonia. But what you can't continue to do is a victimist, tremendist discourse about the situation, about what it means to be part of Spain, when we know, for example, what IRPF commented on earlier. I can give you more examples: the difference between a Catalan person who covers around thirty_ thousand_euros a year, who inherits a family house and an apartment of 230,000_euros, a family house of 300,000_euros and an apartment of 230,000_euros..., the difference between what a Catalan pays for that inheritance, that we will agree that it is not a Catalan, let's say, billionaire..., the difference between what a Catalan and a Madridn pays is 7,333_euros, which does not seem to me to be a turkey muco, seems important to me. And that, in short, is to the detriment of the Catalans' ability to develop our lives in economic terms and the progress of our families. In this respect, both the inheritance tax and the property transfer tax, as well as other taxes transferred by the State, as well as the amount of own taxes that we Catalans have, are seriously straining our autonomous community's ability to get out of this crisis and to cope, in fact, with the price rise that is occurring as a result of the fuel crisis, as a result of the war in Ukraine. I believe it is clear that the Government of the Generalitat is not assuming what it should do. And what should be done, among other things, is to adopt a policy of moderate taxes, not high taxes, because, I insist, the Generalitat has an almost proverbial propensity to increase taxes rather than to consider one day lowering taxes, which has been seen in other autonomous communities, by the way, very criticized in this Parliament and from positions close to its formation. For I believe that what we should surely do would be to follow the model of these communities, which is a model of moderate taxes, a model that allows the Madriders, for example, in this case, or the Andalusians, to have much more of the money that they earn with the sweat of their face at their disposal to carry out their vital projects. What the Generalitat is not going to do or does not seem to be willing to do – and I urge you to do so, from respect – is to reduce the two hundred chiringuites, let's say, of superfluous administration, of organs dependent on the Government of the Generalitat that in this sense you systematically refuse to touch for nothing. Up to 359 public entities depend, in one measure or another, on the Government of the Generalitat, and you continue to say that everything is Madrid's fault. Mr. Turned, I believe you must take responsibility for what you can do. And what they can do, for example, would be something that we have been asking from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens for a long time, that they deflate the IRPF's autonomous tariff to adapt to the increase in prices, to inflation, in short. You should improve, practically until you leave the unserviceables, the assigned taxes. Think that, with the array of own taxes that you have created to plague the Catalan economy, in the end what you are doing is creating taxes that almost cost your management more than what you collect with them. It's an absolute contradiction. I think, from this point of view, you should reflect. And I tell you, Mr. Counsellor, from the respect and firm conviction that political autonomy, the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities, is an advantage. It is an advantage precisely to avoid the possible excesses of other governments. Precisely a decentralized state, a composite state like ours, like Spain, is a state that has that virtue. If we had politicians or a government [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President, I apologize –..., an autonomous government with a low tax policy, we could, precisely, alleviate the voracious policy of the Government of Spain in this respect. And, Mr. Counselor, I expect your answers now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.19.0	Then has the word the Councillor of Economy and History, the Lord Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.20.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... Mr Martín Blanco, I also thank him, and very sincerely, his good forms and parliamentary courtesy. But look, I've noticed that every time I take the word in this hemisphere, it makes you serve an improper, improper rhetorical appeal as a contradiction between what you say and what you do. Always, at some point in your speech, as you did today, you are telling us that you are about to tell us something "with all respect, but you continue to let go of a glue of inexactities and failures that, in fact, are a lack of respect in this chamber. And I'm telling you, Mr. Martín Blanco, with all due respect. [[Give me the applause.]] One of the falsehoods in which you insist once and for another, every time you ask me about taxation, is the indiscriminate use of this concept of fiscal hell. As in so many other things, the three strands of this Parliament have agreed to present our country as hell. And listen, every time you have a microphone in front of you, come or don't come in case, you let it go. And I have to tell you one thing, one thing obvious that all the children of the country know: if you take a word and repeat it once and again without stopping, above a moment when that word loses its meaning and no longer wants to say anything. It's what's happening to all of you with this tax hell. But let's go into the background, let's go into the background of what you're proposing. You want Catalonia to lower taxes. The logic of tax relief alone can be justified in two ways. The first: we can significantly cut taxes so that with this we grow the economy. According to this reasoning, if taxes are lower, the available liquidity of citizens and households is higher, which stimulates demand, and, in retrospect, everything folds has an expansive effect on the economy as a whole. It's very maco, but I can hardly tell you, Mr. Martín Blanco, that until today this theory has not been proven anywhere in the world. I repeat it: nowhere in the world. On the contrary, the countries that have lowered taxes in a significant and constant way have ended up pushing their debt a lot, and that has been paid by the most vulnerable people in the country. Therefore, I suggest that you give me a concrete example, a concrete example of an autonomous Spanish community or a country of the world, which has a tax model that you like. If we talk about communities, tell me 'nuna' – one – that I had fewer resources per inhabitant than Catalonia, tell me 'nuna' that I had fewer resources per inhabitant than Catalonia, between taxes and transfers from the State, and that I offered the citizen a sanitation, an education, a search system and better universities than we offer here. [[Some applause.]] And if we talk about countries, democratic countries, naturally, and with solid institutions, he asks me to tell a country, only one, that, with a fiscal pressure that does not rise to thirty-six per cent on GDP, like Catalonia, offers its citizens substantially better public services than those that we enjoy today all Catalans and Catalans. Tell me, Mr. Martín Blanco, where we have to look to find some low taxes and that at the same time we have some top-quality public services and an inclusive state of rights with social mobility and universal benefits. Without going further, in the last weeks thousands of Ukrainian children and children, together with their family members, have joined the public health and education system of Catalonia. I have very clear who our corporate and tax system models should be, who our referents should be. We can find them all here, Europe. And believe me: in all European countries with states of welfare better than ours, the citizens pay more taxes than in Catalonia, and, in particular, the citizens who pay the most are the citizens who have the most. I said earlier that there are only two ways to justify the systemic insistence of right-wing parties with lower taxes. The first, the one we've just seen, is what you normally explain when you ask. They explain that less taxes are richer for everyone, but they've already seen that this never works. The second justification for lowering taxes is that you're leaving like yours, you don't get to say high; it looks like you're embarrassing them, and it doesn't freak me out, too. You don't want to lower taxes. What you want is for those who have less money. It's that simple. You, with VOX and the PP, what they want is for the rich to pay less. And that must always mean a breakdown of public services and a drop in social benefits. So if that's the way it is, that's the way it is. So no, Mr. Martín Blanco, no. Miri, let me remind you that at the latest on the CEO's bus, a few weeks ago, fifty per cent of Catalans clearly stated that they are not willing to lower taxes if this means a reduction in services and benefits. I know it's hard, but if you ask me one time and another, I don't have more reason than to answer them the same time and the same time. But it seems – it seems – that we want to tire the audience with this debate, when the data reflects reality and everyone knows it. What does it look like if, for once, we change the questions and rules of the parliamentary game and so I ask you if it looks just like Catalonia's financing system? If I ask him if you think it's okay for us to start every year...? If Catalonia starts every year, the 1st generation, is the third largest tax community in the State, and we end up with fourteen – fourteen – for which it makes available tax resources after the State says year-on-year? All right. I'm asking you, Mr. Martín Blanco, if you're going to keep quiet about what you're doing to the denunciation of the inversion-endemic deficit in infrastructure that we're kicking in Catalonia, and that we're kicking in Catalonia everyone, and so is the people who vote Ciutadans. I ask him if his ideal model of state is in the form of a vacuuming metropolis that runs through all the resources of the periphery, especially those of other communities – not Catalonia, which, as you know, is the dinosaur_percent of GDP since the year 80 until today, we have not moved from the dinosaur –..., and that runs through all the resources of the periphery and has become a tax haven. Mr Martín Blanco – I am finishing – the fiscal pressure in Catalonia is significantly under the fiscal pressure of the European countries to which I would like to assemble. Catalans are not the citizens we pay more taxes from Spain. We have, yes, it is true, some IRPF trams with some types still higher than other territories, but we are on the line of lowering this tax burden that precisely supports lower returns, which are between 20,000 and 30,000_euros. And we've already taken a first step with the guild assumptions, and we'll continue to do so if economic conditions and public finances allow us. On the other hand, as you know very well, the assets derived from the family business are tax-free and have a bonus of the noranta-five_per_cent– I repeat, huh? , of the noranta-five_per_cent – in the inheritance tax. And finally, Catalonia is not a tax inferno to have twelve taxes on it. This kind of tribute has a recaptator, but it's a dissuasive one. What we want is for each time we receive less, with these taxes on recycling, contamination, or sugar beaks. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.22.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Well, I'm not exactly giving up respect in my interventions. And the one who... I have to tell you a couple of things that I think are important, Mr. Counselor. Admit that you brought a little prepared your answer, because I have not spoken in any case of tax hell [[the timer riu]] And you've done most of your answer on the basis of something I didn't say. I have not spoken in any case of tax hell – in any case. It's true... now, as you tell me, actually, I say to you: Catalonia has become, for many citizens of Catalonia, and very especially – and this is the most worrying, counselor – for those who have lower returns, to an authentic fiscal hell. But I'm telling you now, I didn't tell you before. And, therefore, to be fair, I believe that this is important that we have a lot of presence. He spoke before how it works, let's say, the autonomous financing system, and he talked about the loss of positions in Catalonia in relation to what we bring Catalans and what we then get, after the fact the distribution of wealth between the conjunct of the Spanish citizens. And that's normal in a democratic, right-wing state that wants to keep a few equals across the city board, no more or less. A state that wants to be equal, a state that wants to be equal with the conjunction of its citizens and that wants to have a continuity in time, that wants to have a continuity in social policies, in social services and, ultimately, in the welfare of the conjunction of the citizenry, does exactly that. This is not a private thing of Spain, but it passes to any country of the world. This means redistribution of wealth. Certainly, when you speak, let's say..., in question..., in counter-inquiry, that it is a concept that I seem to have fun and that we could find in this Parliament, and ask for an autonomy that has lowered taxes and that, after lowering taxes, takes more than I had before, I set the example of the Community of Madrid, that I understand that to you, therefore, it bothers them especially, but it is precisely this: Madrid recapitates for the IRPF 1,100_million euros more than Catalonia, as well as having an infinitely less harmful tax policy for the butchaques of the citizens of Madrid. And I don't think that's random. It is an economic principle that is, of course, given to many countries. I also say: when you compare me or say that you want to emmirate or that the Catalans should emmirate with certain territories and – you say – with certain countries..., man, I, sincerely, Mr. Counselor, I am not clear that with parliamentary partners like the UPC you can get to do a policy like that of Sweden, Denmark or other Scandinavian countries. I find it more difficult to understand that, in a country with an anti-system party that precisely undermines the fundamental concepts of the tax system of the Scandinavian countries, you can actually do a policy similar to that of Sweden, Denmark, etc. You're talking about the right-wing games. I look, counselor, more than being able to point out some elements of his party that, more than just straights – and it's not his case, precisely – with his speech seem to be outrageous, I have to say that here there is a fundamental issue: it is precisely that there are many citizens in Catalonia who currently feel like orphans to be able to vote a party that has principles..., and that they are nationalists, legitimately Catalan nationalists; the constitutionalist voter already knows who the formations are..., or the liberal formation in Catalonia, but the Catalan nationalist voter will hardly be able to vote a party that has exactly the same tax policy or in the line of which they have hard left and even anti-system parties with the CUP. I believe that there is a very considerable discontent in an important part of Catalonia's citizenship, that you see as the Government of the Generality is constantly letting go in the arms of anti-system parties, of a party like the CUP. The fiscal issue, Mr. Counsellor, is as easy as assuming that Catalonia has a large amount of public spending that we support the citizens of Catalonia, the suffering citizens of Catalonia, because you are unable to make a moderate fiscal policy, which is what Catalonia really needs. You have subscribed to victimism, you have subscribed to constant hardship, to say that the fault of everything that happens in Catalonia is the Government of Spain and not to assume its responsibilities at the time, I insist, to make an institutional economic policy – certainly, to give institutional stability, to give legal certainty. And that, Counselor... You talk to Catalan entrepreneurs, and I'm convinced that exactly the same thing they tell me when I talk to them they tell you. Catalonia has effectively become a little attractive to live in fiscal and little attractive to invest in tax and legal security. And that's a lot of Catalans we're sorry about. And I hope you have some answers, more than making me cross-examination. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.23.0	It has the word, then, the Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.24.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, MPs, MPs. Mr Martín Blanco, I don't want to enter... If you want to, one day we have a monographic debate and we get into the issue of the Community of Madrid, not because I'm uncomfortable – at these heights and at my age I'm no longer uncomfortable with anything else – but because it's such an exceptional case, so close to the conjunct of the Spanish State and of Europe, that we don't need an example, the case of Madrid. If you fly, you can talk about any other community, but not Madrid. You have not explicitly mentioned fiscal hell today, but you have repeatedly described it from the principle until the end of your intervention. And I, the truth, every time you talk about fiscal hell in this chamber, have the impression that you turn this chamber not into a fiscal hell, but into a purge of parliamentary demagoguery. Now a_month ago, your group presented to Parliament a bill to adjust the autonomic scale trams to the evolution of inflation between the years 2011 and 2021, which you have previously referred to the issue of deflating, so inflation in taxes. We have studied this proposal, and I must say that it is a text – if I may, Mr Martín Blanco – deficient, eh? This proposal you've put forward is very weak, because... if your proposals have to be assessed how your work is assessed at school, I can hardly tell you that this proposal would not come to an approval, huh? If we apply the law as it stands and as you have proposed in that proposal, we could stop recapturing Catalonia 741_million euros, applying what you propose. To give it a perspective, I'll tell you that this xifra, 741_millions, represents the seventy-five percent of what we dedicate to public universities, or I'll tell you that the new investments in health and education envisaged for the year 22 pugen to 876_millions of euros– 876. And you propose to detail it, stop recapturing it 741. But that's not all – that's not all. If we modify the IRPF and apply to the autonomous tram the fare you want, do you know who wins more than anyone? Do you know who benefits more than anyone, this proposal for Ciutadans law? Of course you know, make them higher. Its measure favors especially the higher renders. The writing that you're going to present here proves it, and you know it. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm not done. Take as reference an increase of the IPC of 16,8_per_cent between 2011 and 2021– I say it for if you are still in time to correct the text; I say it well and with all respect. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.25.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.26.0	Take as reference an increase of the CPI of 16,8_per_cent between 11 and 21, when in Catalonia the increase of the CPI during these years has been of 12,6_per_cent, not of 16,8. On the other hand, you propose to increase all the trams by a 31,75_per_cent, percentage that we don't know of, because it almost triples the increase in inflation. In any case, they say that the increase in the CPI has been fully transferred to wages, and that is not true either. Mr. Martín Blanco, it is certain that inflation impacts on taxes, and that they are right, you and your group, with the intention they have brought. But in a moderate inflation situation, as has been the case in the past, it is not reasonable to adjust rates. And it is not reasonable for a reason: taxes and the cost of public services increase at the same time and in the same proportion. The problem is when inflation is very high, as is now the case, and then the impact is uneven in lower and higher returns, because inflation, as you know, does not affect all contributors alike. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the relocation of Lleida's businesses]] [[302-00121/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the relocation of entrepreneurs from Lleida's districts, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented to us to move forward. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.28.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... In order to present the motion following the inquiry on the relocation of enterprises from the Lleida regions of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, let me begin by giving a message of support to the fruit producers of Lleida for the frosts of the last days that have caused historical damage; the worst frosts of the last forty years, which have affected more than fifty_ thousand hectares(some applause). If the war in Ukraine had not done enough with the increase in the cost of energy and the raw materials, then that is now added. We therefore call for urgent measures and support from the governments. For what he does to the young lady, first of all we want to thank the papers presented. I think they're about... the young lady was in a position and built, trying to get the government to move, and I think they're not on the line to turn the young woman away, but to improve and strengthen her. We have managed... I think we have to try this which costs us so much: agree and define the problem, not need to overdo it or exaggerate it – which happens all the time here, too. And papers, as I said, and motions... try... in the right, to try to give an answer to who's claiming it. Now, we also claim that the government takes it seriously, that we don't approve any more of it if it doesn't have to be completed, if we don't have to take it as our own. A motion of more than fifteen points to give answer to the requests of Cambra de Comerç, universities, commissions, UGT, Pimec, Coell, but above all to this study of Cambra de Comerç, which I believe is a before and after. And what do you say? That 430 companies have gone between the years 2015 and 2020 to Barcelona, Aragó or Madrid. Two factors: capitality i– another factor– outside Catalonia. So there are two factors that we need to analyze, so this happens to us. And one thing that surprises us, Members and Members, is that the first factor for which companies leave, because in more than they come, is the attitude of the authorities. That's why we didn't talk much about it at the interrogation. I think we should all worry, we should all take care of ourselves. And I think it's a tough issue, that the first factor isn't the infrastructure, the taxes – that they are, too, huh? – the subsidies, the industrial soil, the difficulties to find workers, the bureaucracy – which also comes out – but the first point, when 'lshi' asks the companies, is the attitude, therefore, of finding solutions. Therefore, let's put all that we can make many laws, we can do..., analyze taxes, but the most important thing is to have a constructive attitude and attend to the strategic projects that there is in our territory, that there is in our country. What's the point? So we agree on a diagnosis, as we say, and define concrete strategies. Some of us had already approved them, for some projects already the government had approved decrees, but they did not just have the desired effect. And what do we ask? First of all, run away from dogmas. This isn't a big business speech. Most of the businesses are pet, family business, and, therefore, some autonomies and everything, of which they go, of which they also need a solution from this government, which helps them. It is also a social and territorial development policy. People want quality jobs, proximity jobs, so they don't have to leave their homes to work. And, therefore, we want the Government, as I said, to recognise this report, to take note of it. We also want the advisor to come and explain to us what happened with the 2020 law – very interesting – to facilitate economic activity. Do we believe it or don't we believe it? I need to deploy it. Strategic or supra-municipal projects: it cannot be that every municipality..., nine hundred municipalities, nine hundred tarannas and nine hundred urbanist regulations. There are some projects, with Aragó fan, that need to give it priority. Industrial polygons, multisectoral, but also specific sectors, such as agri-food, which we ask for from Lleida. We also asked for a tax comparison and the impact this has on territories and businesses. Recover the seventy_per_cent of the lost investment since 2010. Unique business window – things have been done, but not enough. The collaboration between public administrations, companies, universities, or the eternal reform of public administration, with a digital, open, modern and agile look – I think we can do it today – as well as a follow-up and support to companies that have problems. There's a shut-down company, it costs a lot that I opened a new one. So, we have to try to see those viable businesses, take care of them, help them, and, if that's the case..., why don't we lock them up. So, I'm done here. Then, in reply, we will comment on the considerations that have been accepted. I'd like to thank you, obviously, for all the things you've presented. And, as you know, we've made an extra effort to try to take them all practically. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.29.0	Then, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramon López, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, deputies. We're amazed at you. Today we are presented with a motion with fifteen points, of which several of them have already been proposed by our formation in this Parliament. Without going further, in November my colleague Antonio Gallego presented a motion with nineteen measures to reindustrialize Catalonia and prevent the departure of companies from our region. Can you then explain to the Catalans why you voted against our proposals, if what you are presenting today includes many of our demands? Can you explain to us why, after so many years of government in different municipalities in the province of Lérida and in the Government of Catalonia, you have not been able to implement what you now claim? Anyway, as always, they're late and bad. Gentlemen of the PSC, the basic logic tells us that it cannot be part of the solution that is part of the problem, and you are part of the problem of Catalonia. Again, we show that in VOX we are concerned about the real problems of Catalans and we are next to those who do so too. Gentlemen of the PSC, this is not the case: you are once again demonstrating your sectarian, electoralist personality, your low level of vision and your cheap politics, to which we are accustomed. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, this motion addresses a problem that is being experienced by the region of Lérida, but also Catalonia and, in general, all of Spain. Look, you can't solve a problem without knowing and eliminating the causes of it. In this case, the two main causes that lead a company to move its economic and productive activity out of Catalonia are the poor quality of the institutions and Catalan fiscal hell. First let's look at the poor quality of the institutions. Numerous academic studies indicate that the most important factor of competitiveness, attractiveness and productivity in a country or region is the quality of its institutions. Legal insecurity, political instability, over-production of legislation and the volatility of the Catalan institutional environment make our region unattractive to entrepreneurship. The centralist autonomy of Barcelona – which we have suffered for decades from the rest of the three provinces –, the separatist process and the ideological delusions of the various local governments and the Generalitat are the main ones responsible for the ruin and the stamp of the companies of Lérida and Catalonia. Second, Catalan fiscal hell. We analyze it: superfluous spending; regulatory strangulation of small and medium-sized enterprises in our region stifles the productive capacity of our self-employed and pushes them to seek opportunities outside Catalonia. Point 9 of his motion calls for a comparison study of Catalan and Aragonese own taxation. Do they really need studies on the impact of the tax burden on families and businesses in our region? No more studies are needed to see the fiscal torment suffered by Catalan entrepreneurs. Less planning and more action. What is needed is to abolish Catalonia's own taxes and unnecessary local rates, reduce political and ideological spending and focus on the real problems of Catalans. Gentlemen of the PSC, why do you not ask for the reorientation of the more than 150_million_euro budgeted for the councils of Feminism and External Action, which do not need at all? With this money they could meet many of the needs and demands of the forgotten provinces, such as Lérida, and put in place specific measures to get businesses back and, in addition, attract new investments. In conclusion, fewer spaces for reflection and coordination; less promotion, updating, improvement, and more elimination of taxes and barriers; more stepping down and talking to farmers and self-employed, and less discussion and discussion in the lounge. Gentlemen, they cheat less people every day. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.31.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.32.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... also, as Congressman Ordeig said, all the support and recollection to all those affected by the frost that has occurred in these last days so intense, early in April, and that it affects much Lleida's conreus and fruit. Well, today we have a motion on industrial displacement, which is a raised issue. And, indeed, this report that has been discussed today, therefore, recognizes that there have been companies from Lleida that in the last few years have gone to Aragó, where there have been more available space and also more administrative agility. And, well, I need to recognize these things. I myself come from the Ponent Strip, my father was born in the Aragonese High Ribagorza, and I know this situation well, because I often went there. And I need to recognize things. I, in fact, when I came in to advise on September 2020, to the first interview that made me a daily from Barcelona, to the second answer I said and recognized that, effectively, Aragó was a model for Catalonia in some areas. Besides, my father was very friend of the president of Aragó, Marcel·lí Iglesias, Catalan speaking of the Strip of Ponent, to which I dedicated a book when I was talking about logistics– Catalonia will be logistic or not, I dedicated some paragraphs. Indeed, for example, I would already like to be at the Prat airport or at some airport in Catalonia a four-mile track to be like Zaragoza, leader in the air traffic traffic of goods. Therefore, if Marcel·lí Iglesias said that Catalonia was a model for Aragó, now we also have to recognize that in some things Aragó is a model for Catalonia, and we don't have to know how hard to recognize it. This report, however, speaks of a balance of less than eighty enterprises, among which enter and depart; more 'go to Barcelona than to Zaragoza, and this displacement was more intense from 2015 to 2018 and less intense in the last few years. And it seems that the trend has reversed in the last few months. At Lleida's press, there have been news that different Aragonese companies are looking for high technology, looking for research in the meat sector, looking for Lleida's search centre and also settling in Lleida. Therefore, you can have companies looking for space available in low value sectors that can go to the Ponent Strip or to Osca, and, in change, we have some Aragonese tech companies that go to Lleida. But anyway, it's true that we have to move and we have to act. Now, we also value the work that has been done. Let's talk about solutions. It's been many years since Territori's counseling is pushing a big solution, which is the Torreblanca and Quatre Pilans polygon. Record this name, Torreblanca and Quatre Pilans polygon: a thousand_width_hectarians, the largest polygon in Catalonia. And that's not a paper project. This month of June there will be approval of the partial plan, of the partial director plan, 240_hectares that are already of Incasòl, that can already begin to work the coming year. It's cost years. It has cost many years, but in Lleida the Government of Catalonia is already making the largest polygon of Catalonia, up to a total of 1,000 hectares, to touch from the city, from the university; with connection by rail, station 750_metres expandable to 1,500_metres, European standards; logistics flexibility for enterprises, which can be installed depending on their capacity and size, and, obviously, energy sustainability, renewable energies, photovoltaic plates. Therefore, Torreblanca - Four Pilans up at the right time that Lleida's large businesses are visiting these installations and are already publicly announcing..., for example, a large food distribution company has already said: "Fantastic news. They're installing us. The year we see the works begin. I'd like to put names and surnames, because great things don't happen alone. Many thanks, Isidre Gavin, discreet and quiet work. And also many thanks, Toni Postius, who has been writing to the Secret and Lleida Daily, who has been writing – and will find it in the Chamber – many articles that push, defend, animate, move this great action. And of this action, obviously, also the government of the Republican Left and Juntes of the fatherland of Lleida, so we don't have to make a flag and we have to put on the table what we have been able to, with the few resources we have..., pull this forward. So, then, let's end up positive. Lleida can lead the logistics revolution in Catalonia. Without logistics, there is no industry. It can be of first level, of first quality, and, moreover, without any public controversy. The generality's technicians say that for the first time there is a board of directors without public opposition. Not even the CUP, until now, has gone against it. Therefore, benevolute Members, as more logistic, more free. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.33.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.34.0	Thank you, President. Apologize, in this case, for the absence of the business advisor, but welcome the presence of the business secretary and competitiveness, who will accompany us to the hemicicle today. The business, Mr. Ordeig, is used to being a sector that for a lot of the ear to which it is said, when it is said and, above all, how things are said in this cliff. It is important to place contexts, contrast data, assess problems and explain things in all their dimensions in order not to raise certain doubts, in a sector that is used to be very pragmatic at the time of planning its investments. This is what studies like the University of Lleida and the UPF are doing, putting black on white the speech about the transfer of entrepreneurs to our demarcation. Of the total number of companies that have left Lleida and the demarcation, 428, according to the Commercial Register – fifty-four_per_cent – have done so in Catalan territories. That's data. And yes, they then go to Aragó, in an 18,9_per_cent, and to Madrid, in a fourteen_per_cent. Some conclusions, Mr Ordeig, that we agree, that they call us to take strategic decisions, to work and to ensure that Lleida is the most attractive at the time of investing, but... Now, I try to explain it there: bringing a small young man to the Parliament of Catalonia to put in context such a delicate situation to try to value it in five minutes does not help to reassure a sector that, I repeat, listens a lot to what is said and what is used to say from this Faristol. I'm sure we'd be better off if we could first make the authors' appearances of this study and have a constructive debate about how, among others, to give it an answer. Because we think we should give him an answer, and to do so, we're trying to put some data on the table today. But putting data on the table also means noting that 321 companies have landed on our sites. In fact, there are 758 mercantile companies, a 28.5_per_cent more than the mid-state. This is data: 28.5_per_cent more than the state average. Lleida is also an exporting power. This created a setze_per_cent, a growth rate in exports higher than countries with France or Germany. And they've gone out of business, yes, Mr. Ordeig, but they've created twice as many as they've gone out in the last six years. We try to put data on the table, because there are many ways to explain the data, but also everyone can explain the ways that make the company intend to value the positives. Analysis, sirs, all who care; catastrophism, no. Lleida is diversifying its economy and each time exports and grows more. We are positioning ourselves thanks to the potential of our business fabric and also thanks to the work of the department, the parliament, the chambers, the sectoral tables, designing the most important agri-food hub in southern Europe. And there's still work to be done, that's right. The department is working on the detection and resolution of different blisters that it has detected in the administered processes – they have viewed more than one hundred and twenty points where this situation can be reversed and the unique window created. Some are common throughout the country, such as the deployment of the law facilitating economic activity; others are more specific than Lleida's contracts. These also face the department. And here, Mr. Ordeig, you have our full commitment. In fact, their proposals, which refer to how to solve these blisters, how to streamline the processes, how to make the Administration a little more agile and efficient..., or we will vote in favour of it or we have sought to trade them to reach an agreement. Also our commitment to take advantage of the strategic potential of the territory, of Lleida's corporate fabric, where specialisation in key technologies such as nanotechnology, ICT, biotechnology, also allows us to bet on a knowledge and value-added industry. They won't find us here, they'll find us in the front. We are not opening up to a sustainable economic transformation, inclusive and of high added value. Now, Mr. Ordeig, we don't think of whitewashing any of your speeches that you serve to justify tax and business dumping. If your strategy to attract businesses is to reduce taxes or lower standards, there aren't any here. I listened to his intervention with detail and would like to place on the table a topic that is sometimes not said enough, the co-responsibility. And it's that you also have governance responsibilities. A company that moves almost eighty trucks a day, and has a downloader at R15 and can't use it, because the infrastructure manager doesn't allow it, and the infrastructure manager is Adif. It's not there. The co-responsibility must include tangible commitments in this package. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, Madam President – because that is why his speech also went on, of making catastrophes in order to be able to justify a strategy of fiscal and environmental dumping on the part of the Socialist Government of Aragó. Ho deia l'alcalde de Monzón : « Here we apply bonuses between fifty and ninety_and five_per_cent. Or that of Binèfar: "We accompany you at all times and we increase your taxes. The PP or the PSOE, that is, this is its strategy to capture business investment. This doesn't have to be the strategy, Mr. Ordeig. Last parliamentary term economist Thomas Piketty came to Barcelona. And he did so with the concern that independence wanted sovereignty to lower taxes and drive tax dumping strategies. After meeting with representatives of Esquerra Republicana, he corrected these damages. I'm done. We might have to get his young man here today – we might have to get his young man here today. By all means, Mr. Ordeig, thank you for this ingenious effort you have made to accept our compromise proposals and place you in working together to try to reverse this situation and put into value Lleida's potential and its demarcation in the capture of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.35.0	After the defense round of the papers presented, has the word, to fix the position, the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.36.0	Well, thank you very much. I'll be quick to get back the more time the Republican Left Member has spent, which, as a matter of fact, hasn't mentioned the CUP, because it seems like this morning everyone is talking about the CUP. Mr. Ordeig, neither, but there was a moment when, if we had made a note for each mention, we would all be a little... we would see it all erased. Beyond that, we find ourselves in front of a young man who is already very focused on a law that we did not support last year's legislature. And, therefore, we do not share the urgency or the need for the deployment of this law, because we understand that it responds, as Mr Vidal Aragonés explained at that time, to two mantles of neoliberalism: one, that companies have limitations to create themselves for the intervention of the Administration, and another, that if we eliminate the guarantees, or indeed guarantees, there will be activation or economic reactivation. And this was the basis, in our view, of the law facilitating economic activity. And, therefore, to a young man who rotates around this deployment of the law, we cannot give him support. Because yesterday we commented, economic policy is first policy, and then economic policy. It sounds like an obvious, but I'm explaining myself. That is to say, first it decides which sectors it wants to benefit and then it creates the economic instruments to develop it. It's a different way of saying about the two mantras of neoliberalism, but it's going to be that. And it is for this reason that we at some point will not support it, at others we will abstain and at some point we will vote yes. We would vote for it if, despite the fact that there is a certain number of people we do not share, but everything you have to see with developing or investing in the necessary Lleida communities to guarantee the necessary road, rail and technological infrastructure... We do not agree that the objective must be to ensure the competitiveness of companies. We understand that the population of Lleida's districts needs road and rail infrastructure, especially railways. So we'll give it support. The same way we give support to the point that you see with regard to giving account, in terms of two_months, before the Committee on Economy and Enterprise, of a law that we do not share, but it is good to give account to the committee of five steps and what is unfolding. So we'll give it support. In many of the others, we will abstain. And an incis: we are concerned that systematically it is talked about regulating around the territory, the planning of the territory and of urbanism, under the logic of developing..., or the economic development. We understand that it must agree with the general principle of the rational use of soil, that it cannot always be that it always revolves around economic development and that prioritizing this in the legislation of the territory is what has always been done. And so are they. And so we see how for years, at the level of territorial legislation or urbanism, the construction of polygons that, later on, its occupation is not the ideal or the optimal, and that then we need to make more polygons, because the polygons that we have do not respond to the needs of the moment, although we have tiny empty polygons, and that this cannot be the logic at the time of the deployment of territorial order and territorial legislation. Therefore, we will not give support to these points, both in what you have to see with building more polygons, while we do not analyze what we have and why it is not at the hundred_per_cent of occupancy and is at the seventy_per_cent of occupancy in the Ponent communities, and not at the point around the legislation of the territory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.37.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.38.0	Well, good morning. To thank the motion presented; I think it poses a problem on the table, the reality of a problem that can be addressed. In any case, the young lady is focused on the displacement of people to the Aragó, even if she doesn't say it on the title, right? And it does it from the study of the trading chamber. We also wanted to link our intervention with the study before the Confederation of Business Organizations of Lleida, Commissions, UGT and Pimec, which, somehow, is at the base of the property that makes the chamber of commerce and the same universities and all that, isn't it? I believe that this study reflects clearly already in the introduction, as in problems, the lack of public-private collaboration and the little interest, also, of the Administration in capturing and stalling investments in the territory. I think this is the background for the studies. They have administrative problems, need to improve the relationship between administration and administration; problems in aid and subsidies – not so much in their existence, but in the facilities to access them –; in infrastructure and communications. It is claimed connections with the port of Tarragona to advance in placing Lleida in a good logistic position. It is the lack of industrial soil and the difficulty that this causes because Lleida's businesses can grow. It situates elements of urbanism. The perception, above all, that asking for any transit to the Department of Urbanism is a black hole. There is also the lack of working people in relation to training and offices, and the need to adjust professional training to the needs of the reality of Lleida's labour market. But it is also clear in these studies that, at the moment, it is explained that taxes can be a differential element between territories as an element conducive to the flight of workers, and neither does it state that the working conditions are an element of concern, such as the element, also, determining for this relocation of workers, right? That's all we think the young lady, somehow, is short. I believe that it intends to address the problem of displacement in Lleida's regions, but in doing so, in this way, it abandons, I believe, the opportunity to open up the real debate that it has with reference to the limits of the economic and social development of Lleida's regions. Thus, unfortunately, the analysis is sluggish, as it ends up determining the current imbalances and economic inadequacies in business displacement, mainly in industrial displacement, and we believe that this ends up forcing us to do this partial analysis, which is the position of the youth, and does not allow us to make an integral reflection of the reality and, therefore, what is the most systemic response in this reality of the Lleida Lands. We believe that in order to give impetus to any territory we need to correlate a whole series of materials: occupation, business, commerce, tourism, restoration, housing sector, industry, construction, barrels, cultural, creative industries, etc. If we focus only on the pure and hard industry, we think we've just narrowed the problem down and not given a full answer, because we can all move forward and why we can pull, too, precisely the investments in the territory, right? We believe that if we look more closely at the origin of the problem and the lack of economic impulses that affect the territory, we could give better answers. Because we think there are problems with the business relationship that they have with inequality, and that might put it one way or the other. There are also no others that obviously relate to the climate change, huh? They've been studied to identify, like the key factor in the lack of economic impulses or localization, too, the climate change, right? Or the available professional qualification and skills for knowledge transfer as to determining elements. That's why we think we could go further in the analysis and in the motion. We, in any case, are grateful that the problem has been raised on the table. Some of the proposals will be voted in favour. Others, obviously, will not vote or abstain, because we understand that they do not correspond to the solution. For example, trying to find that taxes, the comparison of taxes is a determining element, we don't consider it going this way. Therefore, thanking the young man, but obviously we believe that he has been partial and sloppy and we have lost an opportunity to tackle the problem further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.39.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.40.0	MPs, MPs, well, today we find ourselves with a young man who I think is coming in..., or at least he remembers those warnings that for many years we have made from Ciutadans, and that there is a reality – a reality that he doesn't want to admit, many times, but that he is and exists–, and that there are Catalan companies that are coming out, that are deciding to move from Catalonia to other spaces and other places in Spain that are more attractive, simply, for many reasons. And today, therefore, it seems that, in one exercise, a little, of reality and in some cases that I will now comment on, so, with differences, it has started with the least to admit this reality. Because to solve a problem, the first one we have to admit is that there is this problem, that there is a problem. And, at least, what we have to thank for this study, which I think is a study I think is totally neutral and it is not a study on its part..., so it puts us on the table that there is a problem; there is a problem in one part of the Catalan territory, which is Lleida, but that I could, in fact..., I think it could be established as a problem that goes beyond Lleida and that I think we have Catalonia in some respects. It was spoken before..., and I want to refer to two interventions that have been made and that I think are different and that, for one thing, they could be valued. One is that of Mr. Tremosa, about the reality of Lleida, who put the Aragó, in some way, in logistical issues, as a model. I believe that Mr. Tremosa's intervention has been quite realistic. I could, including, subscribe to a portion of what he said. He accepted this reality. He has accepted that there is a model we have to fix ourselves on or that we can fix ourselves on. And, in fact, it invites us – to this it will always invite us – to take steps to improve our capacity, our business fabric and our economy in Catalonia. And then, Mr. Engelbert, who has done all the opposite and, a little, has done as a spokesman for Councillor Torrent, who constantly repeats that nothing is going on, that everything is going very well and that here, therefore, we must do nothing more than what we are already doing. Clearly, accept this continuously and go to the cliff walking as if we were those we have decided that there is no way out, that we can't get out of here, that we can't change anything, so I think it's a mistake – it's a mistake. I think I prefer, in this case..., there are two visions of the same Government, but I prefer the one made by Mr. Tremosa than that made by Mr. Engelbert, that in reality what you tell us is essentially that there is a study – there is a study – that there are two universities and that make the Chamber of Commerce of Lleida, and that this study says that there have been undertakings to leave Lleida – many – and that it is worrying, and that these leave for different reasons, and go to different places for different reasons. Marx of Lleida, half, to the rest of Catalonia, especially, essentially in Barcelona – and that's important to say – for a clear reason, and it's this reason that many times some, also, members of this chamber say of centrality, to the capital effect, right? , which is spoken sometimes from Madrid ; therefore, also the Barcelona tea. And there's a good part that they're going to Barcelona for that, first reason. Other Marx in Madrid : a fourteen_per_cent, important – a fourteen_per_cent, important. For what reason? For taxation. I said the study. This has not been talked about, but the study says it; we are not making it up to ourselves. Then, when we ask questions about taxation and reality... I know they don't like it, this is tax hell; it's the same, therefore, the tax ecosystem that we have in Catalonia. There are companies leaving Lleida there. And there are others who decide to do it to the Aragó. And why do they do that? Why are they doing this to Aragó? So they do, honestly, because of the attitude, many times, of the very authorities of government and institutions, no longer of Lleida, but of the Generality. And they do it because they just keep it easier. When some businesspeople talk, they say: "We have it easier in Aragó. We prefer to go to Fraga, basically, instead of staying in Lleida. And that's happening. And that's what we have to reverse, for that matter. And here, in this young man, there is a series of measures in which they obviously do not deepen, and some of them wanted to comment. So I don't have time. Because it is true that this issue – in this it coincides with the deputy of the Republican Left – would give for much longer, for many more, say, discussions and debates. It is true that we find ourselves with a young man who is not very deep and who speaks of some fears... as is the prosecution, who surprised me, because yesterday, therefore, the PSC was positioned against a prosecution that is now, today, somehow, defense. There's a tax problem. And I think the PSC has to accept it. We must accept it in this Parliament, in this House. And I think that, in the end, the measures – and we will give support to some of them, because they all come out of this study – therefore, they lead us to a reality, that we have to do something; that it is not enough that there is in this place; that some of the considerations I do believe that they decrease or lower the will, as this comparative study... I liked the initial text of the PSC better, but in this case, well, they have accepted the Junts' thought, I believe. And, honestly, we have a problem; we have to face it... I won't continue anymore. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.41.0	Well, then finally he has the word, to pronounce himself on the papers, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.42.0	Very quick, with two minutes. Secretary Castellanos, thank you for being here. We accept the Juntes and Esquerra statements and with a transaction. Listen, I think..., this is not a movement of Lleida's comarques – which is also – because this is a movement that is largely applicable to the conjunction of Catalonia and how we are doing things. Listen, and think about whether we're competitive... It's a good opinion that we all have about taxation, dumping and all that, but listen..., I'm told by Congressman Montalà: "is that tax dumping... do we defend tax dumping? Listen, so if we've accepted your point in which we precisely approve of doing a study to see how taxation affects businesses! If specifically I say: listen, on the margins of our opinion, it is obvious that economic policy has an effect on businesses, on people; therefore, we need to know it. And with the greed to do no demagogic or catastrophic, which he says: "Fast, if you have come to do catastrophe..., I say, man, precisely because of this we have accepted your statements, and because of this we have made a thoughtful speech. We don't ask for it. As a matter of fact, I find myself saying that what we're doing here today is not asking for it or the companies. As has been said here, the unions are also asking for it. The unions, those representing the workers also ask that there be companies... And escape from the dichotomy, which gave us the company of the CUP – chupito –, to say: it is not antagonistic to facilitate economic activity and guarantees. No, man, no! We have to make it compatible! And I understand that if we made it antagonistic up a moment you said, "Look, so let's take the guarantees to do it faster. No, we have to make it compatible. We want opportunities all over the place. And I'm already..., with this..., I'm already going home calmly if I know that, after a meeting with the Republican Left, Mr. Piketty changed his mind; then I'm already going home calmly, huh? And when I mentioned the demagogue I could also have explained that on 17th and 18th the flight of entrepreneurs was not to Barcelona, it was to Aragó, the first destination of the flight of entrepreneurs. Therefore, we need to consider things, we need to learn from mistakes and, above all, how he gave a philosophy more than two thousand years ago and we hope to be up today, "requires with the same and tolerance with the others. Therefore, we may be the most demanding, Catalans, with the work we do, and tolerant with others if we sometimes think they are wrong. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place at this midday, once the twenty-point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Committee of Economic Affairs and Attorneys-General to give compliment to the Supreme Court's judgment on the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008 in the field of infrastructure]] [[302-00122/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Commission of Economic Affairs and Prosecutors-General to give a compliment to the Supreme Court's judgment on the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008 in the field of infrastructure, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units have presented to move forward. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.44.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, this is a one-pointer, huh? They know that when I make motions, they're usually concise and concrete. And why this one-on-one motion? What's the meaning of this young man? So that Parliament points out to the governments of Catalonia and Spain, it is to say, to the Generality of Catalonia and to the State, that its commitment to mobility infrastructures must be strategic. Strategic for what? So to have better infrastructure, because we are convinced that investing in mobility infrastructure means an increase in the opportunities and quality of life of citizens and citizens of our country. The third additional of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia was to reverse, decrease, reduce the historical deficit of infrastructure in Catalonia. You also know that the Supreme Court handed down a judgment recognizing the right of the Government of Catalonia to perceive the unexecuted difference in the forecast of investments in the 2008 budget that already applied the third additional of the Statute. The Joint Commission of Economic Assumptions State-General agreed to transfer, between the periods of the year 2021 until 2024, €759_million, that were this difference of unexecuted money resources planned in Catalonia in the general assumptions of the State of 2008. As I said to Vice President Puignero, in my intervention of today's inquiry fifteen days ago, EUR 759 million is not a small amount, it's resources, isn't it? Economic resources that, if we maintain the hope and the letter of the third additional of the Statute, must be invested in mobility infrastructures. We would not understand that this was not the case, as the Government of the Generalitat also has exclusive skills in terms of inversions of mobility infrastructure. The Government of Catalonia also has a duty to do. The Government of Catalonia has to explain what it intends to allocate these resources, which infrastructures it intends to finance; clearly, transparently, because, again, 759 million euros are a lot of resources. And at this point we understand that the government should know who the list is, right? , think about including the list of mobility infrastructures and what they want to finance with these moneys. Some ideas were put forward to the vice president. The list can be long, huh? , but some ideas were advanced by us, if not by us: the Tarragona tram train, the tram train, also from the Costa Brava, or the variant of the Presses and Olot, or the central tram from line 9 of the metro, or the extension of line 1 of the metro to Badalona, or line 3, also from the metro to Esplugues, or the better metro infrastructure in Barcelona. Attention to the better infrastructure of the Barcelona metro, which we will also have to start to focus. Or the improvement of the railway infrastructure of the Generalitat de Catalunya to improve the commercial speed to the Anoia or to the Bages, or the C-28 to the Vall d'Aran and to the Pallars Sobirá, or the recovery of the tolls of the motorways that are still owned by the Generalitat, or the C-16 between Berga and Bagà. The list could be long, huh? But what this is about is that the Government of Catalonia is position and clear, black on white, to which it will allocate these 759_million euros. Three_months– we put two, if asked three_months– is a reasonable time for the government to explain it to us. The Government of Spain also has the will to comply with the third additional. In fact, there is a working group that is working on the 2009-2013 calculation. Let's wait for an agreed date to, all folds, claim that I continue to pay these amounts. Now that it's all about, all the way – and this is the sense of the movement – it's that the Government of Catalonia is also pleased with these 759 million euros and explaining to us what it intends to allocate them to. Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.45.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy lady Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. This young man is a history, a history of promises and failures. From the outset, this story, for me, has a thread of generational fall, since it was my father who explained to me, many years ago, how the distribution of the wealth generated by the Spanish State and its centralist politics and territorial rebalancing worked; also the importance of returning resources generated in the economic growth of a certain territory, or how to close the axe to slowly offend a territory and thus undermine the quality of life of its people. I have to tell you, like the catalanette, I've already felt a little smug. Thanks, therefore, to the previous generations, I have learned from the origins of the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. The statutory forecast, this forecast, had to guarantee sufficient resources and establish a minimum of state investment in infrastructure, pursuing the equity of the territories. The State had to guarantee it in Catalonia for seven years, from 2007 to 2013. And this was the way to reconcile the economic dynamism of Catalonia: with an investment in infrastructure, to compensate, during that period of time, for the least reversal of the State experienced in Catalonia in the previous decades. Also, I have to explain to my son the many injustices we are talking about in Catalonia, the many injustices we suffer in Catalonia ; he, who was born the year in which the court, the Constitutional Court resolved that it was not binding – that it was not binding – the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Because today – today – we are here and we are here, fourteen years later, a real history of incompliments, which together with a model of financing that does not serve Catalonia, given that it does not take into account its fiscal capacity, leads us to a failure, to an absolute weakness when we speak of equity of territories. All right, let's go back to the police station. Let's go back to the year 2009, because the theme is very big. ResultsThe resources coming up – the resources coming up – are from 2008. And we're getting a little bit of details: one part in 2021, one part in 2022, one part in 2023, and, finally, 2024. And that's just up to liquidate the year 2008, a small part of the compliment that surrounds us for the law. But there's still more. There's still more squeaky promises. The statutory provision remains binding on the State, through the general assumptions of the State's succession until the year 2013. For this reason, it is absolutely necessary for the Government of Catalonia to call on the Government of the Spanish State to give compliments in respect of the years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. I'm done. To end this generational thread, I transferred you the questions that make me home. Because we're from Bellpuig, and we're going to school, and we're going to work through the A-2 highway, which, as Mr Postu de Lleida is doing very well, we're taking the car to build, and the deputy here is taking the coffee maker from the Avant every day to come to Barcelona, a train that shakes as long as it does for. The questions that make me home are the following: where are our resources? How many more years do we have to wait for? Is there a reason? Can you give me a reason to stay in Spain? What history will we leave to our children and our daughters? In future generations, I would like to leave, or explain a story with less promises and more compliments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.47.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word the deputy Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.48.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, according to estimates that can be found on the website of the Department of Economics and History, and applying the methodology that at the time was agreed by the Government of the State and the Government of the Generality, the third additional provision represents a debt of 3,500_million euros from the State to the Generality of Catalonia. Four-thousand-forty-five-millions was what the State should have transferred to the Generalitat for the lack of investment during the period, as it was said, from 2007 to 2013, roughly between eight and thirteen years ago. Only a tretze_per_cent has been transferred, i.e., 535_million euros. A commitment by the State to Catalonia with the status of organic law; it was approved in this Parliament in 2005, which was approved at the Congress of Deputies and was referred to the people of Catalonia in 2006. A political compromise – indeed, it is not legal – that was even recognized by the 2010 Constitutional Court's ruling on the Statute of Autonomy. And what we are proposing today, in this motion that the Junts and PSC groups have traded, is not to demand that we pay the historical debt, it is not to require the State to fulfill its commitments with Catalans and Catalans; what we are proposing is that the Government of Catalonia paint an investment relationship where we are supposed to be, or will be... because they know perfectly well that they are not finalistic resources. And, therefore, what we are talking about here today is pure rhetoric and parliamentary filibusterism. Today, in this case, we renounce to claim the 3,500_million euros of debt, as we claimed from the respective papers that we presented both the Group of Joints and the Group of Republican Left. And from 2012 until 2018 some might say that we had the excuse that Madrid ruled the Popular Party, but the last four years in Madrid ruled the PSOE and ruled the commons, and in the last four years they have only transferred 200 of the 4,045_million euros. Four years and a half ago, a Supreme Court ruling forced them to pay the Generality €759 million – four years and a half ago –; only 200 had been transferred. They have incomplete the Statute of Autonomy of 2006– the Organic Law–; they have incomplete the additional fifty-six-year provision of the Statute of Presumables of the State of 2008; they have incomplete the judgment of the Statute of Autonomy of 2010; they have incomplete the agreements of the bilateral commission of 19 July 2011; they have incomplete the agreement of the joint commission of the AMCE, the Joint Commission of Economic and Fiscal Assumptions-General, of 25 September 2018, already in full Government Sánchez, an agreement that is already committed to pay the 759_million euros of the Supreme Court's judgment between 2019 and 2022. They had the compromise between 2019 and 2022. For now, they've only paid 200 of the 759, and we're finishing 2022. And in this recent agreement – it's a recent agreement that the Sánchez government assumed in 2018 – and in all the feelings, in all the laws, in all the political agreements that we have established, everyone says that we have to pay these 4,000_million euros. They pay what they give us, they fulfill their commitments, they complete the judicial sentences that make them. Do you know what we could do with these 3,500_million euros we owe? We approved a new hospital here in Tortosa: 200_millions; we approved a new hospital here in the Trueta: 400_millions; a new Clinic: 1,000_millions; 50 schools: around 200_millions, and with the remaining 1,700 we could surely give an important fall to the Rodalies de Lleida and the Rodalies de Barcelona. In the case of judicial decisions, in the case of political agreements, there is no need for the Government to determine where these remedies are going. It's capital transfers in the finals. Already there are 200 that have already been spent, the 200 that are going to be spent now, which, as you know perfectly well, are destined to increase the general premise of the Generality's tickets. And I end by quoting the legal basis 138 of the 2010 Constitutional Court ruling, specifically referring to the third additional provision, which says that the State's performance must be presided over by the principle of constitutional loyalty which requires the State to veto in order to reach agreements with the mixed commissions and apply them. A serious state cannot systematically fail to fulfil its commitments to the Government of Catalonia, cannot fail to comply with its laws, cannot fail to comply with judicial judgments. If they want to defend the interests of the citizenry to which we represent, today it is time to claim to the State, to demand to the State, to pay us the historical debt, to pay us the 3,500_million euros that, of course, the Councillor Giró will know in what it is to apply them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.49.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then has the word, to fix the position, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.50.0	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Group is presenting to us a motion with a long and complex name; it is: a motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Committee on Economic and Fiscal Affairs State-Generalalitat to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling on the third additional provision of the 2008 Statute on infrastructure. Good. We are not going to comment, for lack of time, on the very serious mistakes that were made in the process of drafting and approving the current Statute of autonomy and that resulted in the chaos and decadence that Catalonia has been experiencing for years. We will only make a point to point out the unheard-of and show of bad governance that implies that the State itself self-imposed commitments with a part of the State itself, limiting its management capacity. Let us go to the concrete content of the motion, from which we highlight two ideas: the existence of a Supreme Court ruling and transparency. As I have indicated, the existence of that obligation, which was self-imposed by the State in the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy, was a serious mistake; indeed, it was a mistake that the State itself committed again before other public administrations. But at this point, there is a Supreme Court ruling which, as has been said, obliges the Government of Catalonia to hand over €759 million to invest in infrastructure. Some, then, do not seem to like this end. And this is the most important thing and it is worth stressing: the Generalitat must use that money to invest in infrastructure and not in what it wants. We might like it more or less – we don't like anything, huh? – but the sentence exists and must be complied with, which must be remembered to the separatists, who are only willing to comply with the sentences that favor them, using all kinds of tricks – in some cases with the complicity of the socialists – to avoid the execution of the judicial sentences that they do not like. But this investment must be done with transparency, explaining how each euro is spent by the Government of the Generalitat to see that from the first to the last one is invested in infrastructure. We already know the Government of the Generalitat and its desire to allocate public money to its secessionist delusions and to the creation of chiringuitos that do not provide a public service and serve only to place, with good fees and better salaries, their close friends. As we know, we believe that this exercise of transparency is essential. That is why it is also important for the Vice-President of this Government to appear and give relevant explanations in committee, as well as for the Union of Auditors to follow closely the funds received and the destination to which they apply. From VOX, we support investment in infrastructure as it is a key element in improving the quality of life of citizens and the competitiveness of our businesses. The list of potential infrastructure generating wealth where to allocate these additional funds is extensive, so we believe that the Government of the Generalitat will have no problem finding them a good application. We will be vigilant to see that they dedicate that money to the purpose that the current legislation and the court ruling determine. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.51.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity – A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Ms.Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.52.0	President, thank you. MPs, MPs... Mr Terrades, with all due respect [[the speaker laughs]] Mr. Terrades, you were starting your intervention by saying you had a point, weren't you? , that we were used to their concise and concrete motions. Let me tell you that because a young lady has a point she doesn't mean that she's concise and concrete, but that, well, we, after studying her young lady, if something hasn't seemed to us to be concise and concrete, but we've seen her have a single point and that's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, it's weird, right? , which we agree with you, but which seems to us very little understanding. The motion's title is to compliment the Supreme Court's judgment, the third additional provision, in relation to the 2008 burden of infrastructure; then there is only one point that is subject to vote, without any precedent and without any explanation. So, we need to recap a little bit, don't we? In 2011 there is a meeting of the Bilateral State-General Commission where it remembers to tick like the import of the State's investment in infrastructure to Catalonia, which we have pending of 2018, the quantity of 759_million euros. This happens in 2011, which is this amount to the bilateral meeting. In 2014, the Government of Catalonia sent an application to the Spanish State requesting that it pay this money. The State answers us that it does not, that in any way; that there is not only this agreement, it comes to say, but that, in case it exists, this agreement would not be binding because the third additional provision cannot bind the State in defining its general State assumptions, right? , cannot link the legislative power. The Generalitat has to resort to jutjat. The National Court dismisses the petition, but after the Supreme revokes this sentence and says yes, yes, that, indeed, all that is granted to the bilateral commission has binding effects for the State, that the agreements are to complete them and that what the Government of the Spanish State has to do is to introduce into the general assumptions of the State the game of 759_million euros, and that this cannot be understood as a conditioning to the Spanish General Courts, but there is simply an agreement, the executive has to enter and then see what the legislature does. But, of course, the way in which the motion is presented by this Socialist Party, so it seems that here it is necessary to ask permission to the State, or that the Generalitat..., that it has its pilot in its roof, the fact that this agreement has not been completed. And that's extremely unfair. So we can't vote in favour of a young man who makes it, precisely, on that part that he's not responsible for the failure, so, all the demands, right? So let's recap: we have that of these 759_millions they will be paid, through the general assumptions of the State, 200 to 2021, that there is a match of 200_millions to the assumptions of 2022 and that, according to it seems, 2023 will incorporate 200_millions more and 2024 there will incorporate the rest. And what seems to us more perverse is that you, who have to complete this, because there is a pronouncement that says you have to complete it, seems to condition this compliment to pass a detailed relationship of infrastructures. No, I'm sorry, you, the Government of the Spanish State, this has to be paid independently or not of the fact that it's a little bit of an infrastructure relationship, because this is an exclusive competence of Catalonia, and the compliment on the one hand cannot be conditioned to the other compliment. Other than that you have already taken advantage of to put ideas on the table about what these millions can be allocated, such as the Tarragona tram train, the Costa Brava tram train, the 9th subway line... That surely these ideas that you have said with initial character, that they are very masquerading and we like them very much, you see, right? And it's not that we have a crystal ball, but we'll see how these Costa Brava tram trains, these tram trains in Tarragona always end up with the last of the list and before it... as the variety of the Presses, to which you also refer. Therefore, we, as the representative of Esquerra Republicana has also said, understand that it is a movement that is the fruit of this parliamentary filibusterism, that we cannot enter this game and therefore vote against it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.53.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.54.0	Well, thank you, President. Let's show a certain perplexity for the debate we're having, for various reasons. The first reason, because of the disagreement that we have seen between the governing partners of the Government of the Generality with regard to a question that we believe should unite them and that it is the result of a series of meetings in mixed commissions in which they have attended as the government. And, therefore, on the assumption that a meeting or a joint commission of economic and fiscal subjects, but also with a pre-bilateral meeting of infrastructures, therefore, what comes from the Government of the Generality is not interpreted in the same way for the two governing partners and that this leads us, even so, not to deal jointly and vote separately on a matter as important for the country as the transfer of resources from the State to the Generality. Perplexed too, second place, so as not to want to show transparently what resources are intended for; it seems to me that it is not so complicated. That is to say, it has been granted that the State will transfer resources that, in effect, many years ago should have passed, and what is being asked here is to say: "Listen to me, tell which infrastructure will allocate these resources. It seems to me that for a question of transparency it should not be so complicated to say: "So look, we would spend it on these infrastructures. Certainly, it is also perplexed because it seems to me that it is quite clear what the third additional provision says when it speaks specifically of infrastructures and not of other things – it speaks of infrastructures –; so... As if we don't have infrastructure problems, in this country! Why can't we allocate all these resources to infrastructure? The other thing is what infrastructure; here we can debate and disagree. But in any case, who rules is who has to decide on which infrastructure to invest, and that's what we're asking. Surely – surely – we disagree with these infrastructures, but in any case, this will also serve us to see, now that there are resources on the table, where it is intended and, therefore, which model of mobility is defence by the Government of the Generality. Because yesterday we asked the councilman about mobility, and he told us that if we had an excessive metropolitan view of our group... I would discuss it. But, well, in any case, we will now see whether the resources, first, are prioritized or not in railway infrastructure, which is what we ask – not only; the mayor of Castellgali..., we also believe, therefore, in the unfolding of the C-55, not pateixi –..., but, in any case, if it is priority in railway infrastructure, and if it comes out of the metropolitan area, that is the other thing that we are insistently asking for; therefore, in projects like the tram train of the Camp of Tarragona, of the Costa Brava, also that of the delta of the Ebra, also the train of the Pyrenees. Therefore, we are going to invest in railways and outside the metropolitan area of Barcelona. We have resources. Do it. Do we have resources? Because this is the other element. Don't tell us it's the same as the one that rules, it's not true. Then, the joint committee met in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, between 2011 and 2018 stopped meeting, met in 2018 and reconvened in 2022. Look who rules all these times, so to speak. And they say to us: "Only 200_million euros have been spent on us. Esconti, 200_millions in 2021, 200_millions coming in 2022, 200_millions coming in 2023, 159_millions coming in 2024. That's what they've granted. Does this mean that we renounce to claim the compliment of the third additional provision of the Statute between the years 2009 and 2013? In absolute – in absolute. Listen, the proposed group is free to accept or not accept the items that have been proposed to it, but in any case, I think it is obvious that there is a working group and that there is the will, therefore, that the compliment of the third additional provision is made also between the years 2009 and 2013. And if I don't, I'm bringing a young man to this Chamber, this Parliament, and I'm not sorry that we're sure that we're going to vote for him, and I believe, therefore, that his governing partners are also. Therefore, I believe that this is obvious, that there has been unanimity in claiming the compliment of paying for these resources. In any case, the theme we're talking about, I think... more than it's important, isn't it? , that it is a matter of sovereignty and that, therefore, in the end, resources arriving and that it is the Government of the Generality that has to decide what these resources are spent on mobility infrastructures. But the problem we have is the inversion deficit in infrastructure, which is a deficit that is historical. In fact, I won't have time, but I found an article from the year 2002 by Mr Andreu Missé – 2002 – in which he was already talking about the deficit between the years 55 and 2000 of reversal to the Generality..., on the part of all the administrations, which is the other: how, the conjunction of the administrations – state, autonomous and local – have invested little in infrastructure in this country. Therefore, this is the issue of foundations, in which it is obvious that we are too late and that we must reverse this situation. Resources are now beginning to arrive. We also have the Generality's resources to invest in mobility infrastructure to advance towards a sustainable mobility model in this country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.55.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.56.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have today a motion from the Socialist Party which, from the outset, seemed to us, to our parliamentary group, absolutely acceptable. There is a fundamental principle in a democratic state of law, which is that the feelings are to be completed; a principle which, unfortunately, is often put in question in this Parliament, but that we, of course, have always defended and consider that, so that it can be a tangential thing, the question which was raised in this motion of the Socialist Party seemed to us at all reasonable and acceptable. Yes, it is true that the message they have finally accepted from the Junts Group for Catalonia is the same as the experience of the Socialist Party's proposal, and this will change the sentiment of the initial vote, because, by the way, we have said "we will vote in favour of this proposal from the Socialist Party, but we see how they have taken on, as they have, unfortunately, more in front of the nomenclature, of the register they impose on Junts for Catalonia, we will abstain, because we do not share, let us say, the wording, the literality of this young man as it is written at the end. We have seen, in this debate, things as peculiar, as inverse as the fact that the CUP, representing it from the CUP, has said that here there is a feeling and that the feeling has to be completed. Actually, they're right. The sentence has to be completed. It has also been said by parliamentary groups such as the Republican Left and the Junts for Catalonia. And, effectively, we defend, once more, that the feelings are to be completed. And here's a Supreme Court ruling. And there is also another paradoxical aspect, which is the fact that the Government of the Generality resorted to before a ruling of the National Court that did not give him the right in this matter. The National Court made an interpretation, let's say, different from what the Supreme finally made of the Constitutional Court's judgment as to the third additional provision, and the Catalonian Government had, logically, right to challenge that judgment, to bring an appeal before that National Court and, in the end, the Supreme Court ended up giving reason to the Government of the Generality. And that's, ladies and gentlemen, a democratic state of right. Actually, that's how the democratic states of the right work. When a public administration, a city or any other body concerned with a specific issue considers that its rights have been violated, it has the right to appeal to justice, and even has the right to do so in various jurisdictions, as has happened in the question of the third additional provision, which in the end has ended with a judgment of the Supreme Court which obliges the Government of Spain..., to which many times call the State; but in any case, it obliges the Government of Spain, the public administrations, to complete a political agreement reached by the Government of Spain with the Government of the Generality. And we, from this point of view, can only celebrate this defense of the compliment of the sentiments that have been made today by some groups in a surprising way. From our point of view, the claim that the third additional provision continues to be linked until the year 13 is an authentic disproposal. You don't feel it. The third additional provision was in force during the years when there was no ruling of the Constitutional Court on the issue. It was a question that was submissive to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, which finally said what it said. And for me or for us he said something absolutely reasonable, sensible, that is that the inversions of the State, the inversions of the Government of Spain, the capacity of the Parliament, the Congress of Deputies, its own autonomy cannot be linked, cannot be limited in an imperative way for which to say an autonomous norm. And the truth is, it seems to me that this is absolutely common sense according to the principle of competence, according to the principle of rationality that must govern and that must preside over the functioning of a democratic state of law. And, therefore, I believe that the pretensions of some groups, such as that commented by Mr Parés of the commons, which must continue to demand the result of the application of the third additional provision until the year 13, seems to me, if not, questionable. From this point of view I also want to claim that I believe that there has been an attitude on the part of the Government of Spain, at this point, that there has been a high-profile attitude. [[Widow's remorse.]] I believe that the Government of Spain wanted to compromise 'as well as the Government of the Generality precisely because the subscription to which they correspond to the disposition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.57.0	Quiet, please, that the speaker has difficulties to hear 'if he feels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.58.0	[[The timer laughs.]] Thank you, President. I thank you for your kindness. [[Rialles. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] No, joke aside, the truth is that it certainly had difficulties. But the truth is that we are defending, precisely, the compliment of judicial judgments. And let us celebrate the attitude of the Government of Spain from the point of view of the institutional entity. And that's why we, beyond the disconformity with this theme that has been accepted, agree with the young man's experience. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.59.0	Finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.60.0	Thank you, President. We have accepted the message presented to us by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the first, because it goes in line with what the motion says and what we defended. We have not accepted the papers presented to us by the Republican Left Group for two essential reasons. But first let's show me about the dialectic trappings that the Deputy Saved made for us. He says: "Oh, the PSOE, the Government of Spain has not completed. He was four years old. No, I'm sorry, I remember: in the four years of government of Pedro Sánchez there have only been two assumptions approved for the government, which has supplemented the third additional provision or the hope of the third additional. There was-there was the first assumption... that we had to manage the extended assumption of the People's Party. I remind you that the first presupposition presented for the Sánchez government... who dropped it? Republican Left of Catalonia. Who will vote against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia? Republican Left of Catalonia. So who is going to vote against the third additional? Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] I have already explained to them that there is a working group – that you should know; I am surprised that you do not know – between both governments that are joining and valued from the year 2009 until the year 2013, so as to set the value and make the corresponding transfers. The Government of Spain is willing to agree and is willing to comply, and here I want to claim and claim the role of Councillor Castells, of the Government led by Pasqual Maragall, who was the one who led this proposal of the third addition. So, as we believe ourselves, we'll make it complete. It's true, it's a non-final transfer. Now, you will have to decide whether these resources should be allocated to mobility infrastructure, such as the letter and the hope of the third addition, or whether they want to spend on other things. We are clear: in mobility infrastructure, because the historic deficit in Catalonia is enormous. And in any case, it is Republican Left that will have to decide and reposition its positions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.61.0	When the debate is over, I also ask you that the vote on this point will take place at this point after substantiation of the next item on the agenda, the 20th item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government on health policy. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health policy]] [[302-00123/13]] It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of VOX and has the word to expose it by Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty and our responsibility to provide citizens with quality public health. And it is our duty to listen to the actors involved so that we can make a correct diagnosis. Do you know how many doctors would like to be in my place now, to be able to explain why Catalan public health does not work? You see, there is something that most of us agree on: the importance of having a powerful public health that responds to the needs of Catalans. But the path goes through a change of direction in health policy. We, with this motion, propose a turn of one hundred and eighty degrees, a real transformation that includes all Spaniards and guarantees health care based on excellence. We will work to ensure that all Spaniards have a single health card that guarantees health care at any point in the national territory. [[Some applause.]] We urge to devote all the resources that are currently wasted on policies that have no impact on the health of Catalans in this department. We propose the presentation of a shock plan to fulminate medical and surgical waiting lists. The necessary money is in the arks of the Generalitat. And I remind you that it is from the citizens, from those who have been asking for months to visit a doctor, or to give them a resonance or to remove a tumor. We also plan a health care where research is a priority. In cancer, 44,599 new cases were diagnosed in Catalonia only in 2020. Or chronic and autoimmune pathologies. Or in those great forgotten, rare diseases, because there are already almost half a million people affected, mostly children, and of these, only twenty-eight_per_cent have a correct diagnosis. Research that requires strong investment doses and that we can perfectly cover if we dedicate the public treasury to them. Because I repeat to you again that what you joyfully spend on equality and feminism or on nanosatellites is also the heritage of all Catalans who are now ill. We demand that they protect, train and care for health personnel. We demand that they devote the money to reducing the workload, and for that it is a requirement, sine qua non, to invest in human resources. Forget about external action, of the Catalan Tax Agency, of the Platform for Language and other entities. Because, among other things, apart from squandering the money of all citizens, none of that – yes, honourable Member, none of that, nothing – improves the situation of health care workers and Catalans in general. Use this huge capital to hire more staff, to guarantee them a salary commensurate with their responsibilities and continuous training that guarantees the quality of care that Catalans deserve. In short, it is a motion that focuses on and urges the Government to focus all resources on what really matters: the well-being of Catalans and to put health at the centre of that well-being. For us it's simple, because citizens' priorities are to have a meal every day on the table, to have a job, to be able to put the washing machine, to heat the house where their children live and to go to the head doctor or the hospital if required, without having to wait months for a doctor to visit you or for a CT scan. This – this – is your opportunity to show that people care more than their rupturist agenda or their senseless progressive policies. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.63.0	Next, has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.64.0	I'd like to take out the mask. Let's see when we can get this done for good. Well, let's see, VOX, VOX, VOX... Let's see, first of all I would like to express my utmost respect for Mrs. María Elisa García Fuster, who I think is one of the people in this chamber who is more seriously – than more seriously – taking the shortcomings of Catalan health care. Well, I, since I've been here and I've been watching this, I see here some games of political balance... I mean, I have the impression, then, that the CUP just wants to blow up the agreed model; that is, public health, everything else gives them the same. PSC and common have concerns that are episodically manifested in the Health Commissions, asking that this CAP be opened or that primary care be recovered at this site. But, of course, then the groups of the Government always arrive with the amendments, with the decaffeinated, and in the end, a little bit, we stay..., everything remains in toast to the sun and nothing is ever fixed. The motion that you have presented..., we share the spirit of many things that you say. We of course want to draw up a shock plan as soon as possible to reduce substantially the medical and surgical waiting lists; of course it seems essential to us to promote an improvement in the conditions of wages, work, training, etc.; of course we want much more transparency in the balance of results, which we have just received the information of the change of strategy of the flu and, well, we will almost need the Rosetta stone to interpret the data they have given us. The problem with you, gentlemen of VOX, is that, of course, in the end always..., the temptation to throw the child with the dirty water of the bathtub. Do they really have to mix the barbecues with merinas and have to mix their legitimate health claims with their obsession with immigration and with foreign collectives? See, I know that you believe with all your heart..., it seems normal to ask that there be a healing for Spaniards and one for not so Spanish and one for not so Spanish at all. But, look, this thing that can sound normal to me reminds me, not many years ago... well, more years than it seems. I remember he was in the Balearic Islands and I saw a headline in a Mallorcan newspaper that caught my attention because he said: « Two Spanish delinquents attack a Catalan businessman. So, this headline looked funny. Even very Catalan people laughed when they read it, but look – look – where we've come from. So, we have presented, we have tried – with forgiveness – to humanize your motion, asking again and again that simply all the health improvements that you advocate, including the single health card, reach out to everyone – without exception – the citizens who have recognized health care in this country. And, well, those amendments you have rejected, because, well, you, let's say..., in this case, I would say that you are committing the same thing as you have just reproached the honourable Members: you put an ideological criterion before a health criterion. I think we can debate a lot about illegal immigration, but, as has already been said here, our group will never accept the criminalization of entire groups; let alone that they are attributed criminal conduct per se. We believe in free will. We believe that a gentleman who has even entered legally can commit a crime, and therefore, because of the mere fact of committing the crime, not because he is an immigrant, they already have laws to punish him. For the same thing we can find that a gentleman who has entered illegally, well, look, maybe saves a person from a fire. And then what? Nor should that be possible because it has entered illegally. Anyway. We know very badly that you..., that is, that much of this motion is unclear, that it is ideologically covered by your prejudices, by your..., well, by those xenophobic tics, which somehow put you at the same level as you put in front of the other side of the bench. On the other hand, we... we would very much have liked to vote for the point of including in it the bucodental services... that already know the company of the commons... that we are totally out. The bad news is we got it in the same bag. In other words, the point says: "Deleting non-health surgical interventions from public health – changes in sex, abortion and euthanasia – that's nothing –" and including oral services in it. Of course, that's a combined dish of difficult digestion. So, I say to you, admitting that the health cord, worth redundancy, is not serious and that the health here is not serious – forgive me, counselor, sap that does not go for you –, gentlemen of VOX, tune up a little, because..., do not fall into the same thing that they criticize. Do not make politics at the expense of people's health; that I know that you, Mrs Elisa, are very concerned, as I am concerned about me. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.65.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Mario García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.66.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members... Today, on World Health Day, I want to start this intervention with a special record to the figure of Ernest Lluch, who worked hard to maintain a public health system in Spain. [[Greetings.]] That said, and precisely so as to keep Minister Lluch's arrival, our group will vote against this young man, given that it is directly false and demagogic and that what they claim is only rude to our public health. Gentlemen of VOX, you don't want public health. And that is why they raise this motion. I would like to remind you that both the right to abortion and euthanasia are social achievements of our democracy and are laws in force in the State, no matter how much VOX weighs. Democracy, one; extreme right, zero. Salvation does not include frontiers, nationalities or economic negotiations; it is human beings. This is the lesson that left us the pandemic and that we should all be clear. And we should be very proud to have a great health system as we have built, able to cope with a pandemic and be capdavants in vaccination both in Catalonia and in Spain. Public sanitation is a foundational pillar of the welfare state that we need to preserve and improve. And I would like to remind you that in the general policy debate we have adopted a motion of twenty-six points in this Parliament to improve our system of salvation. VOX voted against it. Now, counselor, there is not enough to diagnose how our health care system is, or to work in a health care of the future. We agree with the orientation of community salvation, one health... we work for the need to present. And it won't be for us. We are the parliamentary group which, in the long run, presents more proposals for improvement to the Health Committee, making a responsible opposition task on a subject that concerns us and deals with us. And don't be sorry. Arrive here, take the crowd's nightstand: "There is no money. It's Madrid's fault. The excuses that supply the whole ventilator, from the very top of the right, such as 'Madrid steals from us' – it is curious that there is always someone external, the culprit who steals from us what is our natural right –, to better excuses and to a good extent certainly, like the lack of financing of public sanitation – correct. Now, who is being questioned by this assertion in the first instance is the proper Government of the Generality. We're not in a developing country, still asking for help from the international community. We live in a society ahead and with resources, with a government that manages a broad premise, and what you have to do as a government is to prioritize. Prioritzin to public sanitation in Catalonia. And, in any case, we agree among all the pleas, certainly, where we will allocate the money we want to ask for out. Now, they will convince me that they would be more credible at the time to ask if the effort for public sanitation started with endin doors. And I'm telling you this, counselor, because the extreme right hand saw precisely the dysfunctions of our welfare state and clings like fathers to everything that can end our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in politics you have to be brave. They do not hide behind the flag, which, by the way – by the way – does not feed or cure diseases. And in any case, tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack. Please explain to us from here to all Catalans what you really defend and what you say in the interviews: "Universal and free health is a scourge. All you are interested in is making all Catalans and Catalans pay for having the misfortune of falling ill. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.67.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, the deputy Laia Estrada has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.68.0	Thank you, President. The VOX program in healthcare can be summarized in applying the doctrine of masculinism and misogyny that characterizes them, in applying the doctrine of homophobia and transphobia, racism and xenophobia, nationalism and neoliberalism. This is what sums up your health policy, as it sums up your policy or your policies in general. And, if you're depressed, public sanitation would lose you're serving and losing your profession, too. We would have a public sanitation with a brutal health exclusion, more than, unfortunately, she is still a woman today. We would have a public sanitation managed from Madrid, obviously, well centralized, and above all that favors private interests. Look, VOX is absolutely the same as with the professionals, with the workers who develop their functions in the field of salvation, whatever these functions are. Just like the patient's combination of users. Because you're here, just like other institutions, representing and defending the interests of the rich. You're a game designed and conceived for the rich to defend their interests, despite the fact that they later try to disguise it. What do we need when we talk about public sanitation? And we have defended it not only here, but in the street, participating day by day in all the struggles of professionals and users. We need, logically, more resources. More resources means dealing with the tax policy, which there is despite the fact that the government wants to deny, and that means more resources from the game, the general parties that the general government has, because, when it matters, the money, indeed, is needed and with a lot of speed. We need to expand seedlings. We were talking about it yesterday, and we're going to talk about it again in our own Ple, with a specific motive. We need to expand seedlings, and that is why we need to improve planning and improve substantially and in a real way the working conditions, which means better wages, but not only. And thirdly, what we need above all is to strengthen primary care in order to move forward with a health model that I stopped being hospital-centric and that began to be truly primary. And that means assigning it, once and for all..., the twenty-and-five percent of the game of salvation, therefore, that goes to primary attention, but we also need to give primary attention to the rest of the system. And, of course, Mrs Grau, yes, we need a model change, that's what we think, because we are proving that the public-private concertation model we have is a model that generates hardship among workers, that generates classism among users, because there are triple lists of hope – and we have also found it with complaints, I mean, it's written–, and it's also a model that allows, that encourages, that favors corruption. And we speak with knowledge of the cause, because precisely the UPC we were who unveiled the case Innova, a case of brutal corruption, pregnant with Reus, but that affects the totality of the Catalan health system. That's what we need, in short, when we talk about sanitation, and that's what we're trying to do, as I say, day by day, here in institutions, but mostly on the street. And we've got straight-to-thread toilets. And then we give it to the counselor that we need to act already to improve the working conditions of the workers, the professionals, so that we don't march, we don't march to foreign, or even that we don't march to foreign, that we don't wander to the private, that we stay in the public, and even that the professionals of the private come to the public, because in the measure that we have many more professionals we can provide a greater assistance and of higher quality. And this is the urgency that we have now and that we need to take. And from here we take advantage to send a strong embrace to all those professionals who today are fighting in their work centers, in their health centers, to get these better ones. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.69.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.70.0	Thank you, President. I want to begin our intervention by remembering that today is World Health Day, and, to be sure, I believe that we can all agree that salvation is a basic right and that, more than anything else, we can guarantee it in a universal, free, and everyone's way, and that we believe, more than anything else – at least we can – firmly that this can only be done through public health, a public health that we must preserve, that we must protect and that we must work every day to keep standards of quality and, obviously, also of universality that the assembly of the people needs, right? Clearly, the motion that today brings us the extreme right group for me is a sense of purpose. That is to say, you are clearly adversaries, not to say direct enemies, of public health and public health. And I'll give you three very clear examples. Miri, in this legislature, at the level of the Congress, one of the first steps they took was that when a person is malalto, when he has a malalto, they can not take it. And do you know what you voted for? They voted against it, because you represent the people they want to eat, and they want to defend when people are sick. That's what you are, and that's what I want to explain to the city council. But I will tell you more: in the largest pandemic in our country, with a situation, I would say, of anxiety for thousands of citizens and citizens who were at home, that I do not know if they could work again, with the patience of family and friends that I do not know if they would get mixed up, the Government of the State banned the accompaniments and bet on the ERTOS; therefore, it set aside a real civil rescue plan, where much of the underside of most workers paid them for the State for a few months. And you went back to voting against it. Because you don't care about people, they care what you represent, who are the big economic interests and you for this work. And the third element that I believe proves not only that they don't care what goes on in public health, but also that it demonstrates its classism, is that in this Parliament you have voted repeatedly, both in the plenary of the Parliament, but also even in the committees of salvation, against the workers and the workers of the cleanness of the joint of the hospitals, who were essential personnel during the pandemic, coppering the pay of the covid that they did not have the rest of the health workers. This is what you represent, which is clearly what... I insist, you are an opponent of public salvation and you are an opponent of the workers and, more importantly, of those workers and workers who have the worst conditions. And that's what represents the extreme right and that's what you represent. And, therefore, this young man..., miri, is that I will not enter either the fund or the authentic barbarity that they plant, because you are against, I insist, what public sanitation represents, and more against what access to the salvation of many collectivities represents. Because you fill your mouth to speak of the city council, but you are against the salvation of people who have sexual orientation different from what you think is normal, you are against the right to the salvation of women who want to abort... It is certainly a right recognized in the Spanish Constitution. You, who always put it so much in their mouths, so maybe they complement the Constitution; that I already know that you do not like it very much, you are more to bomb Gernika, as it became clear this week with yours, right? , skirmishes that are going to be made in the Congress. Therefore, you have no credibility to defend, I insist, public salvation. And, finally, another thing that is the hallmark of the far-right house: you defend the interests of who else you have. All his proposals in economic policy have only a clear orientation: that the people who have the most money – for example, like Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, who is dedicated to making fraud and does not pay their bills – each time pay less taxes, and, in change, that the working people, the people who work, even all the health professionals, each time pay more. This is what you represent and which, in short – I explain it to you, because if you don't understand... – it's the theory – which is its economic theory – of the straw: it can't be snorted and squeezed at once. Therefore, you cannot defend more public health when you are constantly defending tax gifts to the rich, which is what you represent. Therefore, this young man has no credibility. You are clearly the greatest adversary today to our public salvation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.71.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Maite Selva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Today, April 7, World Health Day, we defend salvation in all spheres of life. Greetings mean physical, emotional, social, not just absence of malalty. Hi, everybody. I often reflect that at all political, municipal and supra-municipal levels, there are many ways of working and seeing politics. From the government and from the opposition it's customary for there to be little understanding, and that's when the debate comes in and to find the maximum consensus. Now, there are political formations, like VOX, that we have never sought, nor do we want consensus, because we are in total opposition. There's no understanding of any type, no understanding of any kind. I'll make a few real acclaims from your young lady's argumentary, whatever they say, that nothing is likely. According to Article 23.1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which establishes that all persons have the right to have access, on conditions of equality and free of charge, to public health services of public responsibility, the Government approved Law 9/2017, of 27 June, of universalization of healthcare with regard to public funds by means of the Catalan Health Service. That law has the objective of smoothing the universalization of health care, health care, eliminating any inequality that may exist between persons residing in Catalonia. As a result, this law allows to give services to the entire population without exclusion in all areas of medicine – in preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative medicine and in promotion of salvation – and in all stages of life, culminating in the universalization of healthcare in Catalonia. Currently, we find ourselves in the consolidation phase of the recovery process of the health system in the scenario of overcoming the pandemic of the covid-19, and impulse of transformation of the system. In one band, it will be active in the recovery of the backlog and the diagnostic activity: 160_million euros destined for recovery programs. And, on the other hand, it will continue to work in the strengthening of primary and community care: incorporation of our roles and profiles of more than two thousand professionals. Since the Department of Health has been in favour of ensuring the interoperability of the different health services, which does not mean making this document uniform and unique. There is already a unique database of the national health system where, from the DNI or the CIP code of the health card, plus the code of the autonomous communities, it is possible to identify a city from any center so as to give to know what is its level of coverage and to which services it has right. The health card is a document accredited for health assistance to the entire national health system. The people who have the general health coverage level should not have any problems to believe with this document, given that there is state legislation on health coverage that all self-employed communities share, even though it does not have to pass, that there are people to whom they have asked for the number of social security insurance. Thus, when a person is displaced outside his or her place of residence, he or she has guaranteed public health care to the place where he or she has moved, whenever he or she carries the necessary documentation in each case. Knowledge and good practices are the main act of our public health system and guarantee the success of transformations in people-oriented care models. Your expertise and dedication make it possible for us to enjoy today a system of professional excellence, which with your pocket helps to increase the added value of healthcare. The Department of Health, aware of the need to encourage all necessary actions to improve and guarantee the protection of professionals against attacks of any type and origin, creates the observer of attacks on professionals of the health system in Catalonia. Their functions are extensive and are expected to be approved by the government. We do work and work for a strong, public and quality health system that reverses the chronic infra-financing that the country suffers. And we care about our health care system, and that's why we work with rigour, transparency and seriousness. We do not demagogicize, we do not say what we do not believe, we do not speak in a total way running from credibility, from truth. We're totally on the opposite side, you're totally on the opposite side. And so, we can never, ever raise a young man like you. Therefore, you are, as I said, in other pels. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.73.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ángeles Llive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, today is World Health Day and, therefore, we demand the right of access to the health system for all people. Well, today the parliamentary group devoted to economic liberalism and nativeist proposals brings us a motion on public health. Well, from the Republican Left we want to take advantage of this intervention to take a short step back from the best that has been done and is being done in the health care system. Because yes, we are clear that we need to improve our health system with real policies and in line with the needs of the Catalan people. First of all, we want to celebrate the increase in economic spending in the health care system that has been completed in this legislature; in concrete terms, the fifteen_per_cent: one_of_three euros of the new budget of 2022 is destined for the Department of Health. A couple of weeks ago the greeting plan 2022-2025 was presented; a plan with a very clear structure and orientation: respect for people, especially for those who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability. Know that the Catalan health model is a public and universal model that offers the same conditions for all people who are found in our home – basic values of our health system – ; also those people who, while having many papers at home, find themselves in a situation of administrative irregularity and, therefore, see many violations of their rights. We are pleased that in the 2022 premise, the increase in the salaries of health professionals and the incorporation of new professional profiles, such as more psychologists and nutritionists, is embedded. Enhancing primary and community care is a key factor. And we're willing to keep doing it. We want to work with more determination in different key axes, such as mental health, as we demonstrated in the monographic plethora that we achieved in June 2021, constituting a commission to treat mental health and addictions from within, with different experiences and professional experts in the field. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the young man who has presented points that we truly find regrettable. To urge the Government to abolish surgical interventions such as avocating, euthanasia or, worse still, to consider that it is not sanitary that a transgender wants to traverse with the escort provided by the health system is basically not to accept that we find ourselves in a democracy of the 21st century. They talk about guaranteeing the freedom of conscience of the health professionals. Maybe they didn't agree that it's more than two years ago that the miscarriage has fallen apart and that the debate has ceased to be whether the women have or don't have the right to the voluntary interruption of the embarrassment. They make proposals, they make policy for this century, please. No one has denied the freedom of conscience to the professionals of salvation, but remember that the right of conscientious objection is individual and in no case collectible. Don't compare it to the right of women to access a free and free abortion, with the right of a person who is patenting hard to opt for euthanasia. And for what he does to language, does anyone question that a malevolent is attached to his language anywhere in his country, in the world? No, except for you in Catalonia, who claim that this is not the way to eliminate the català. And don't say that català is a barrier to engaging professionals from other communities, because it's not true, it's not true. One example: six-hundred nurses from the Andalusian health system have been incorporated into the Catalan health system. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President. In their election program they defend the free choice of access to public-private sanitation; in fact, they plant reductions in the IRPF for the use of private sanitation. What you want is to dismantle the Catalan public health system. Therefore, we will, of course, vote and reject this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.75.0	In order to finally pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.76.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank Congresswoman Grau for the effort and the work. Unfortunately, we believe in the national priority: as long as there is only one Spanish pending surgery or pending a medical visit, we consider that there is no need for a visit or surgery to an illegal immigrant. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] The PSC. Yeah, we want public health. And yes, abortion and euthanasia are conquests of progressive policies – not social policies, but progressive policies – that directly attack human life. And when we rule, we'll repeal them. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Health... Indeed – I am glad that the chairman of my parliamentary group has taken us out – what we are always talking about is scheduled surgeries, scheduled visits, never urgent – always scheduled – and, if not, read the article. And if not, someday I invite you to accompany me to visit the hospital and explain to the eighty-year-old lady that we can't operate her hip prosthesis because we're doing vasectomy to illegal immigrants. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] Because that's what happens – that's what happens. And finally, the CUP. « Machist, « racist, « homophobic, « xenophobic, at last, that he forgot to tell us that we had killed Kennedy. The rich, I don't know, ask Gabriela Serra, Anna Gabriel, Eulàlia Reguant... Ask them, because we rich know very little. [[Strong remorse of the eyes]] Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.77.0	Lady..., Mrs. Elisa García. Jo, the truth, I've had to repeat it in..., it will be the seventh time. I would like to remind you that Law 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, was approved unanimously in this chamber and obliges all administrations and public authorities to age in order to guarantee the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination and to avoid any form of discrimination, which is based on their national origin, which may result in xenophobia. I, as the President of the Parliament, will vote in every intervention because this discrimination is not produced, and his intervention is not free of this discrimination. Therefore, please ask them to comply with Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and to present that they are using questions such as origin, race or religion, which are subject to protection of discrimination. Keep it in your interventions, please. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] And now, after the debate, I'm going to ask you to proceed to the vote on the motions for substance this morning, which are the 18 to 20 points of the order of the day. We shall therefore begin voting on the motions that have been debated and, as you know, we shall vote on the texts of the motions with the drafts and drafts that have been admitted. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the relocation of Lleida businesses (continuation)]] [[302-00121/13]] We begin by voting for motion No. 18, following the Government's inquiry into the relocation of Lleida's businesses. Let's vote first place point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 38 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 49 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 3 and 4. The vote begins. These two points were not approved, with 56 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 129 votes in favour. We're voting points 6 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved with 120 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 107 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 5..., 108 – I forgive – 16 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9 was approved with 97 votes in favour and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 124 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. We vote points 11 and 12. The vote begins. These points were approved with 115 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 108 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 12 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 108 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 5 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 15. The vote begins. This point was approved with 120 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Committee of Economic Affairs and Fiscal Affairs State-General to give a compliment to the Supreme Court's judgment on the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008 in the field of infrastructure (continuation)]] [[302-00122/13]] We shall now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Committee of Economic and Fiscal Affairs. As long as no separate votes have been asked, we vote on the only point of the motion. The vote begins. This point received 71 votes in favour, 53 against and 5 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health policy (continuation)]] [[302-00123/13]] And now we vote on the motion following the question to the Government on health policy. We vote first points 1, 3, 6, 8 and 10. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 11 votes in favour and 118 votes against. We now vote on points 2, 4, 5, 7, 9 and 11. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 16 votes in favour and 113 votes against. [[Procedure for appointing six members of the Statutory Guarantee Board]] [[287-00001/13]] We are now on the agenda..., with the procedure to appoint six members of the Board of State Guarantees. In accordance with Article 3.2 of the Law of the Council for Statutory Guarantees, the parliamentary groups submitted their candidatures for the appointment of six members of the Council for Statutory Guarantees. The Committee on Institutional Affairs gave substance, on 31 March, to the appearance of the proposed candidates and completed the procedures laid down in the Rules. We can proceed to their designation. Request the secretary, Mr Ferran Pedret, to give reading to the names of the candidates who have been proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.78.0	« Enoch Albertí i Rovira, Mercè Barceló and Serramalera, Laura Díez Bueso, Francesc Esteve i Balagué, Eduard Roig Molés, Montserrat Rosell Martí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.79.0	Next, as parliamentary groups have asked to speak, as agreed at the later Board of Spokesmen, we will now open a three-minute turn of intervention for each of the parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.80.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning to the candidates who accompany us in the Chamber, you are still welcome. Members, Members, President, today's school is attended by six councillors and advisers of the Board of State Guarantees, councillors who, according to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, must appoint Parliament with, as a minimum, three_five-parts of votes in favour. This reinforced majority is itself a guarantee of plurality in the composition of an organ within the administrative organization of Catalonia. And this appointment is important for the Parliament, for the Catalan institutions and, therefore, for the citizens of Catalonia, who see strengthened institutions and control mechanisms. But, at the same time, it is a triumph in a different way of doing politics. After years of blocs, disagreements, administrative paralysis, expired charges, today we are carrying a proposal endorsed for the three main parties of the hemisphere, which is still a symptom more than the institutional normality that has prevailed both in Parliament and in Catalan politics, and this – consciously so – scares some. From the PSC and Forward Units we bet for the collaboration in front of the confrontation. We are well aware that agreements mean partial waivers, they mean criticisms of those who do not participate, but we are convinced that they also mean consensus, collaboration, agreement, cooperation, ultimately plurality, as plurality is Catalonia. And the Council of State Guarantees is no exception in the present time; it has a very important role to play: it must ensure that the standards are fully in line with the current order – Constitution and Statute – but it also has the challenge of incorporating the European Union's right into the control standards and incorporating the vision of local administration, the great oblivion for legislative production in Catalonia. Until now, the competition system has been defined and delimited from the realm of exclusivity in the exercise of competitions, but we have no doubt that we have reached a new stage, that of collaborative governance between administrations. The challenge for the new Council is to ensure that Catalonia's standards conform to the principle of decision-making, or continue, together with and not for other administrations. To achieve this goal, six candidates – three men and three women – are presented today, with a new bet on parity in all organs. They deal with this challenge and do so from professionalism in various sectors of the legal field, from teaching and university research to the practice of law, from experience working for the General Administration of the State or the Constitutional Court to experience working for the Generality or local authorities. And, of course, they do it for the three major groups in Parliament, which in no case means that they do it under their obedience. You have to vote for the names of the proposed persons judging their résumé, not for whom they propose them. And, as a lawyer, I have no doubt that the curriculum presented for all of them is excellent. If you're not in the mood to vote against these candidates because they've been proposed for political parties – which, I repeat, is what the Statute of Catalonia establishes – you are doubting the institutions and rules that we've all had, and we already know that those who doubt the institutions really doubt democracy. I'm done, President. In short, MPs, MPs, six people who comply with the legal requirements that they make suitable for developing the mandated task, but, more importantly, they do so from excellence, and this is the uplifting and important fact. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.81.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.82.0	Thank you, President. Well, we are facing the renewal of the Council of State Guarantees and we are facing a new division of seats agreed by separatism and socialists. The Statutory Guarantee Board is an advisory body that serves no purpose at all. The perceptive part, prior to possible remedies before the Constitutional Court, could be carried out quietly by the Council of State. They have done so, for example, in other regions, such as Extremadura, which have dispensed with this expensive and costly consultative body for citizens in order to derive such advisory services from the Council of State. Take note, because that's the way. Look, at a time when citizens are having a very bad time, when it is very difficult to reach the end of the month, when the price of petrol, transport, energy, light, food, milk, sunflower oil has risen a lot – it is a time when we should give the citizens an adequate response. That would go through what we are demanding, which is to drastically reduce those superfluous expenses; here is one: the Council of State Guarantees. Because if we cut this kind of expenditure, which is too costly, we could lower the IRPF to the workers, to whom communism, socialism and separatists have turned their backs. There are many autonomous sections of IRPF that could be lowered at the expense of such superfluous spending. Parliament approves the renewal of six useless charges that, as I say, cost us a lot of money; they cost us exactly 3.4_million_of_euro, 2.5_million_of_euro in personnel. The councillors nominated here and present will take public money, money of all Catalans, at least 128,000_euros; then, come some complements by dedication. That is to say, six members of the council will charge thirty_ thousand more than the President of the Government of Spain. And I don't think you're going to have the same functions, because you're just going to charge 128,000 euros for your opinion. As for the proposed ones, it is good, some have more legal-academic profile; others have a little more professional profile in the practice of law, but, in short, they have a common denominator: that you are of confidence of the three parties that have agreed to distribute these chairs – two, two and two. Frankly, since VOX, we consider this expenditure on this Council of Statutory Guarantees to be a real shame, because that money where it had to be is in the hands of the Catalans, of the workers, of those who are having a very bad time. We shall, of course, vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.83.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.84.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, President, I will be very brief and will not say anything again about what I said during the sessions of the CAI and which has absolutely nothing to do with the profiles and curricula of the people they present, but with the body. We cannot support the fact that there is an old body because the laws of Parliament conform to the Statute and the Constitution. We, like the social majority of this country, want precisely to get out of the autonomic mark, an autonomic mark that slashes our rights and freedoms; we want to advance towards the Catalan Republic independent that I definitely escape from this constitutional mark of the State, which is an oppressor of rights and freedoms. And we see it all the time. We see this continuously in the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which carry the laws that we approve in this Parliament ; we see it and we see it clearly also..., and it is necessary to make a memory of it, from which was the history of this State which is now in force, just as we remember the radically anti-democratic humiliation to which it was subjected, these details that there was about the State which the Parliament had approved, which afterward, while having been referred, was re-reported. And I just want to remind you that, paradoxically, a law signed for which you were the head of the State, King Joan Carles I of Spain, and having signed this law approved by the Spanish Courts, did not prevent it and did not protect it from the fact that the PP filed an unconstitutional appeal that generated a demolishing judgment. Why do we have to continue playing this game of paranoia in which we always – always – lose it? It's a cheating legality, which is made expressly because it can't recognize the sovereignty of this people. And, therefore, it has already been clear that the 2010 judgment opened a new political cycle of struggle for self-determination and independence, which is the majority will of this country, this is the cycle we are still in. And we have to solve it. And what we can't do is continue to approve of laws that protect us from the abuse of the loguer and that remain fallen, or as you yourself yesterday, president, tells us that as the law to protect the català we already know that we will be dropped, what we have to do is to follow the head before and stop ourselves, repress us and present laws that they can please to make us forgive. No, we don't have to make amends. We will work because this constitutional mark is over, because we can really walk towards independence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.85.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.86.0	Well, thank you, President. Unlike the two groups that have preceded us, who consider that the Council of State Guarantees is not a necessary organ, we do believe that it is a clau organ, not only in the country's clau, but also in the global context in which we are. Because we believe that before a situation in which we have enormous global dimension problems that have difficult consequences at local level, which is precisely to be layers of articulating sobrieties between different levels of government. And from Catalonia from where we have... from our own institutions that have an organ like the Council of State Guarantees that you have because this is possible and also in order to gain sovereignty, we believe that it is necessary. That said, and what we are dealing with today is precisely the appointment of six advisors and advisors to the Guarantee Board on the part of Parliament, but I will now put our position on the table, which we have already given to the CAI, and which, in any case, we understand is that these six nominations respond to an agreement between the three large parties of this chamber, which is not only to be seen by the State Guarantee Board, but also to be seen by a group of bodies through which you are legitimately and complementing the legal mandate that establishes the majority qualified to make it possible, what you have done is to distribute to these bodies. We believe that this is not what is in the experience of different laws that establish qualified majorities for the naming of these organs. Because we believe that what there is in hope, of the essence, what there should be, we believe, is a respect for plurality, but also, therefore, that these institutions function from the best possible way, from the utmost objectivity and independence. And that's not dividing up the roles of naming each of the games to some people of their affinity. And I'm not asking questions about the value of people who are named here, but the way or the way there is at the back. Because, in the end, with a global look, the only one that I think you have cared about, in this case, to guarantee is gender parity, but beyond that we do not find, in the nominations, a global view that guarantees a good functioning of this body. Yes, it is true, therefore, that the vast majority of advisors and advisors – whom I take advantage of to greet and wish luck and uncertainty at this new stage and congratulate them on the appointment – do we believe, therefore, that they have highly accredited curricula; but it is also true that it is very easy to identify which party has named each of these advisors and advisors and that, in some cases, we do believe that more than the curriculum, accreditation, therefore, is designated for the political trajectory. And we believe that these are cases that, in any case, could have been named through the three members that the government appoints in this very same organ. Therefore, we do not think that anyone close, therefore, to the Parliament name this type of profile in which the political trajectory is what ends up determining its suitability, which we do not share in this case. For all this, then, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.87.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.88.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. The proposal that the separatist parties bring us here with the complicity of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, for the appointment of a number of members of the Council of State Guarantees, seems to us to be the finding that, in fact, in Catalonia we return to pre-trial normality, that normality in which in Catalonia nothing happened, in which everything was an oasis and, while the nationalist parties were allowed to prepare their next attempt to overthrow the democratic institutions of our rule of law. In this regard, I would like to highlight the importance of the constitutionalist tradition that exists in Catalonia. In Catalonia there are great professors of constitutional law, great professors of constitutional law, such as Josep Maria Castellà, Enric Fossas, Víctor Ferrres, Francesc de Carreras, of course, Xavier Arbos. And the truth is that I regret that, for the Council of Statutory Guarantees, we have finished or are going to proceed to elect people like, for example, Enoch Albertí. Enoch Albertí, I would like to remind you that he was a member of the Advisory Council for the National Transition that created Artur Mas, precisely to equip a legal architecture with his attempt to overthrow the democratic institutions of our rule of law. His attempt to liquidate the constitutional democratic state in Spain will finally be rewarded with his appointment as a member of the Council of State Guarantees. It seems to me..., and I do not want to personalise in the case of Mr Albertí, because Mr Albertí has a legal background as a professor of constitutional law, but that is precisely what makes him particularly responsible, it is what makes his appointment particularly costly, it is what makes his appointment especially unjustifiable. The fact of being perfectly aware of what is a constitutional democratic state, which is precisely the need for political power to be limited in a democratic state by the action of judges, the control of the constitutionality of laws and the fact that there is a principle of competence that must govern the functioning of a rule of law, is what makes it absolutely unacceptable for someone like Mr. Enoch Albertí to be a member of the Council of Statutory Guarantees. And that worries me relatively little about the separatist parties, which have already shown that their conception of the constitutional democratic state is very sui generis, that they have a more "decision-making" view of reality. I am concerned – and I say this with complete respect and sadness – especially the position of the Socialist Party, which, thanks to an agreement with the Socialists of Catalonia, Mr Albertí, who was on the Advisory Council for the National Transition, now ends up being part of the Council of State Guarantees gives me the impression that it is the finding, the sublimation of that supposed return to the oasis. Nothing has happened here and those who tried to liquidate our constitutional democratic state, giving legal coverage or a purported patina of legal coverage to the 2017 coup d'état, are now rewarded. They are going to be placed – and I finish, President – at the head of the institution that must ensure, precisely, that they never repeat the year 17. It seems to me to be an absolute contradiction and a great irresponsibility. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.89.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to proceed to the appointment, by this Parliament, of six persons to be part of the Council of State Guarantees, an organ which, in this case, I would like to highlight the work and prestige that you have and that you must continue to have. Because we believe that an institution like the Council of State Guarantees is a country's own institution, that we want it to be a state institution for Catalonia too, that in this case it is necessary to strengthen our institutions and our processes. The Council of Statutory Guarantees, among many of its functions, has the analysis of the projects and proposals and the decrees of the law under approval of this same Parliament; the adequacy also to the local autonomy of the projects and proposals of law and of the legislative decrees approved by the Government in the terms that guarantee the State of autonomy; or to dictate also on the norms of the State, a whole series of legal orders that gives strength to our institutions, that gives security to our decisions and that gives us projection and solid as the country. And, therefore, let us celebrate that we can, therefore, proceed to this renewal. And a renewal that's not made in any way either. A renewal that, in this case, is more than three_five_parts of this chamber, with the representativeness that this represents of the country's conjunction. Therefore, we must celebrate these broad consensuss at the time of being able to proceed to renewals as we are doing. Because these renovations are important to push them forward, not block them. And we are all aware that at the time of pulling them out we must be generous at the time of being able to face it everywhere. And here I'd like to thank the work done on the people who will, in this case, leave their jobs. To thank them for their pocket developed along these years that they are and that they also gave up at some other time. And congratulations, in this case, to the people who will be appointed – therefore, to Eduard Roig, to Mercè Barceló, to Francesc Esteve, to Laura Díez, to Montserrat Rosell and to Enoch Albertí –, for the task that they will be entrusted with, and to whom we wish them to contribute, in this case, as we would all like to do, that the legislative process, the standard process of this country is a success and that we wish them all to succeed and be sure that, in this case, we can tend, in this case, also a council that today is old for the legislation of this Parliament and that has been connected, in this case, with the State and the Constitution, and that we hope that, well, we will also be able to ensure that this Parliament is able to act. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.91.0	And finally has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Jordi Orobtig. [[Sound the acoustic signal from call to vote.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.92.0	It's that we're in a hurry to dinate and we're calling for a vote... [[Widow's remorse. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Yeah, yeah, I'll try to be brief, anyway, Madam President. Well, at this point, we are entering a process, a process that is that of the appointment of the members of the Board of State Guarantees by the Parliament of Catalonia. In fact, a process that adds to an obvious and palpable process of regeneration of this chamber, which in the last few months has crystallized with the designations of different people for different organizations that are provided for in our legislation and that, of course, in the future proper, therefore, will also tend to see with new proposals that will come to know in this chamber for the designation of people, in this case, correspondents. In this case, we are talking about the nomination of Mr Enoch Albertí and Mr Rovira, Mr Mercè Barceló and Mr Serramalera, Mr Laura Díez Bueso, Mr Francesc Esteve and Mr Balagué, Mr Eduard Roig Molés and Mr Montserrat Rosell Martí, who, in this case, was a participant in the deliberations of the parliamentary groups at the session of the Committee on Institutional Affairs which took place on 31 March, in which I was a participant, with other members of my parliamentary group, and in which it was not more likely that all the candidates who, in any case, at some point in their lives, at some point in time, had spoken ideologically with other members of my parliamentary group, and in which it was not more likely that the parliamentary group, in whatever case, represented at some point in their life, at some point in the parliamentary term, had expressed its opinion, and in which the parliamentary delegation, as well as the parliamentary delegation, in the case in which the parliamentary delegation, the parliamentary delegation, in the parliamentary delegation of the parliamentary delegation of the parliamentary authority of the parliamentary authority, in the parliamentary authority, in any other The first thing we can convey in positive terms of this proposal is that it is parity. Until today, only two of the fourteen previous advisors were women and, therefore, it is an equal proposal, there are three..., it is equal from the gender point of view. And for us, too, I believe that a thanks to all those people who until today have been part of this body. And, in this case, those designated for Resolution 517 of the 8th Legislature, in Joan Aegean, in Pere Jover, in Jaume Vernet and Àlex Bas, and the one designated for Resolution 19 of the 10th Legislature, in Carles Jaume and Fernández. The first spokesman said that this was a symbol of democratic normality and I buy it, that's right. For us, democratic regeneration is essential from the very beginning. And what we want to do, the freedom of our country, the Catalan nation that has a similar state, must obviously be based on transparency and democratic regeneration. But this democratic normality does not lead us to understand that we renounce the main objectives of this legislature, that they are amnesty and self-determination, and that is why we will continue to work today, tomorrow and forever. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.93.0	Next, then, and after greeting the outgoing and incoming members of the Board of State Guarantees accompanying us, we will proceed to the vote for the nomination. I ask the Members whether they can approve the applications submitted by consent. Otherwise, in accordance with Rule 101.3, the vote shall be taken in an electronic and secret manner. As set out in Article 3.2 of the Law of the Statutory Guarantee Board, the record that for this election is required a majority of three_five_parts. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The result of the vote was 97 votes in favour and 33 votes against. Therefore, as the required majority of three _five parties has fallen, the members of the Board of State Guarantees are appointed at the proposal of the Parliament of Catalonia, with the six candidates who have been proposed. We give them the compliment. Out and out. [[Perlongats applause.]] And we suspend the session until three-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.94.0	Good afternoon. Let us resume the session on the twenty-first item on the agenda, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the President of the Russian Federation, who presented the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Motion following the question to the Government on possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the President of the Russian Federation]] [[302-00124/13]] I, to expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.95.0	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. You already know the subject of this motion proposed by Citizens, born of the interpellation I had the pleasure of doing the other day to the councilwoman. The starting point is that the European Parliament agreed to investigate the contacts of former President Puigdemont, now fugitive from justice, with tyrant Putin, today alleged perpetrator of war crimes. And we were concerned, in the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, about this irresponsibility of a former Catalan leader, former president of our autonomous community, having no less contact than with the current author of such atrocities, being in the end a pawn of a clumsy state trying to destabilize the democracies of the world, including the democracy of the European Union. It is very bad, it is very ugly that a leader of our country has come to make intelligence with this kind of leader, which they seek to undermine and destabilize our democracies, undermine and destabilize the Government of Spain. I set bold examples, the other day in our interpellation, that not even the Irish in ancient times made this kind of intelligence with the enemies of Britain. But here we've met with that. And that is why we wanted to bring it to Parliament, we wanted to put black on white these contacts with the far right, so far away from the centrality of the European Union, which Mr Puigdemont has maintained with parties of the far right. And, lastly, to point out in particular that the danger of Catalan foreign action being in the hands of people who do not leave their independence with regard to the political leadership of that person who is still in Junts per Catalunya and who is saying around there, from the Consell per la República, that he is going to do an external ministry without the limitations that we have, legal and democratic, in our rule of law. And we were worried about that, Mrs. Alsina. And we ask you – and that is why we also ask you in this motion – to appear and stand out and say that your action, the external action of the Government of the Generalitat, adheres to the institutional loyalty that you owe to this Parliament and the Government of the Generalitat. I think it is necessary that, when a leader of your party so clearly demarcates from the democratic guidelines of a parliament and a government that emanates from an election here in Catalonia, it is necessary that we have the tranquillity that that leader who goes around with Russian intelligence..., because from here we know that we are demarcated from that. Therefore, by focusing on the content of the motion, these are our concerns, and we have already moved it to the democratic parliamentary control that we all Members exercise from this Parliament. And it basically... it's concrete in two kinds of actions. One, that are political appearances, that you explain and be transparent. We ask for yours, and we also ask for that of the delegates of the Government of the Generalitat. VOX proposed to us: "These delegations must be closed. Yeah, we've asked, we think they're embassies, they're not acting offices. But as long as you exist, you have to account for and appear, and not elude and escape yourself. And then, the money, the money you spend. You have to account for the money spent on all Catalans. But what is this, that you go handing out money in your embassies and we don't know what it's for? Also the houses of..., Catalan communities abroad must account for the use that is given to the money that comes from all Catalans. We will therefore also vote a condemnation of the contacts in Puigdemont. We will vote a condemnation of the words of Mr Knörr and Mrs Casajoana, delegates of the Government, who compared Spain with Russia. Finally, we will try to improve as much as possible the transparency of this external action, under suspicion in the Catalonian Parliament, which is our responsibility. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.96.0	Then, has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.97.0	Thank you very much, President, and good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. This week, the Citizens' Group presents a motion that is a populary of many issues related to the external action of the Generalitat de Catalunya. A composition that mixes all the sticks that make up an illegal external action, contrary to the common good, contrary to the general interest of all Catalans, of all Spaniards and that only seeks, in a twisted way, to make propaganda of separatism. We have seen how the Generalitat not only turns its back on all Catalans and their interests, but only seeks to satisfy its own ideological, rupturist interests, at all costs, talking to those who need it and spending all the money that is needed. In the past plenary session, the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia has already denounced in this room the relations of Alay, former coup president Carles Puigdemont with the Kremlin, and that search for a collaboration and protection from Russia to obtain eventual independence from Catalonia. But VOX goes beyond that. It is not enough just to vote on it at one point in a motion. VOX has already denounced it to the judicial authorities, being the popular accusation on behalf of the Spanish people, against those precisely, illegal relations and those dangerous relations that has maintained separatism with Putin Russia. Once again, only VOX is the alternative that gives the battle to separatism from here, from institutions, from the streets and also from the courts. These last few weeks we have seen that separatism is not tired of making a fool of itself. Last week we saw as the ambassadors of the Generalitat of Catalonia to the institutions of the European Union, Mr Gorka and Erika Casajoana, participated in a commission of the Flemish Parliament, where they dedicated themselves to, once again, insulting Spain, where they dedicated themselves to making totally absurd and peculiar comparisons of a mind that does not get much, that is alienated. Setting a parallel between the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Catalonia and Spain, Mrs. Casajoana said – and I quote textually –: "You cannot tell Ukrainians who are the champions of European values and when Spain tramples on Catalonia to look elsewhere. This was followed by other statements by Mr Knörr, who, intending to teach a lesson in cheap Europeanism, said that the repression suffered by Parliament is the perfect example of contempt for European values. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the perfect example of what Mrs Alsina's external action and of her plugs, her ambassadors abroad, is. A cut of plugged millionaires, walking around the world looking like a new model, huh? , and violating the law, insulting Spain and all Catalans, and kicking the money as it pleases them. We've seen that more than thirty thousand euros were spent on a weekend. At least you'd have a good time, Counselor. And that is why we have been forced to table amendments to this motion, because it is not enough to condemn some statements, to say that something is not right with us or we do not like what they say. Mrs Alsina cannot continue to perform her duties. And the Foreign Action Advisor has to shut down for good. It is not enough to condemn from a rostrum the relations of separatism with the Kremlin. We've got to get him to court. And that is precisely what VOX has done, being once again the popular accusation of the Spanish people. It is not enough to stop the delegates of the Generalitat in Brussels. Because, of course, once they cease, two more will enter, who will continue to charge their ninety-thousand euros and will continue to do the same as these gentlemen are doing. There are no half inks; you have to comply, you have to close the board and you have to put the entire budget of those 90_millions at the disposal of all Catalans. And I would like to take advantage of these last few seconds that I have left and do so from here, from the rostrum of the Parliament of Catalonia, and congratulate and wish them with all my heart to all Spaniards who spend a very happy and Christian Lent and a happy Holy Week. While some are shaking their wrists and left to congratulate the spring parties or other kind of festivities, I want to say so. May Holy Week live! May our Nazarene Christs live, our painful virgins, and may Christ the King live, the central pillar of Spain, of our identity, our culture and our tradition! [[Some applause.]] Thank you very much and enjoy the Holy Week. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.98.0	Mr. Tarradas, referring to the clothing of Councilwoman Alsina is a comment of natural sexist. It could refer to what she does or what she says, but not to what she wears or stops wearing. I remember that for proper intervention. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Next, to fix his position after this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.99.0	Well, all right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote for some of the points of the motion, more than anything else because we have been talking about it since the Council: there are things we are asking for, we will continue asking them, and therefore we will vote for them. We have been saying since one minute that we think that the government delegates abroad should come to the Parliament of Catalonia to give explanations of their work. The councilwoman himself agreed with this. We stand in this position and hope to find the time and opportunity for this to happen. We will abstain on the topic of the web of transparency for a reason, because we think that there is no need to create a new web of transparency; we already have one, that has not just worked and that what we have to do is that it works, this web, and not create others, because we already have our systems of transparency, that actually, in some case, does not just work. And, well, for the rest of the points, we would also vote in favour. The statements of Mrs Erika Casajoana are intolerable – they are intolerable. Do you know why? Because they go in the direction of the counter of what the President of the Generality has said, in the direction of the absolutely counter. Therefore, one of the representatives of the Diplomacy of Catalonia cannot say the whole opposite of what the President of the Generality or his advisers say. And therefore, these statements about the relationship between Spain and Russia are inadmissible, they cannot be admitted. And someone should tell this person who has to rectify, who can't do, who can't say. And more, I insist, when the president of the Generalitat has already clearly marked which is the strategy of the Government of Catalonia respects, in this case, the subject of Ukraine. It is clear that Mr. Carles Puigdemont's background has maintained contact with President Putin's rule and therefore needs to give clear explanations. We said that on the first day: we trust the European Parliament, which has already asked and which has already stood in the way, and that this works. We trust him. But if the Parliament of Catalonia decides to ask for these explanations, it will not be for us. And, therefore, we will also vote in favour. And, finally, he'll advise – take advantage of what you are, huh? I'm sorry – we said the other time: the Council for the Republic cannot seize the powers of the Government of the Generality in matters of foreign affairs. It cannot be done, from the point of view of the way, because this competence corresponds to you, not to the Council for the Republic, the body that externals of the Council for the Republic. No, they'll match you. And that an entity that we don't know where it is or who its ability is, or who its internal democracy is, or who its control mechanisms are, has the opportunity to do the work of the external consultancy, go, we see it absolutely intolerable. But that's what you should do, too, because they're betraying him. There's another one that's doing the work of outsiders, when you should do it. This advice..., Ministries Lliure d'Exterior – the Ministries Lliure d'Exterior. Clearly, because all this gives him arguments to listen to what we've just listened to. All these things give arguments to listen to what we've just listened to. We think that there should be offices outside, but if they're dedicated to these things, that's all very complicated. Therefore, in the end, Madam President, with your permission, we shall ask for a separate vote from points 4 and 6, which we could vote together, and on the rest of the issues, we would therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President, Mrs President, Mrs Councillor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.100.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.101.0	Thank you, President. Well, we want to begin this intervention by showing our support and solidarity with the companies of the Sàhara Dempeus mission, held for the Moroccan police on the same day that Pedro Sánchez officially visits Morocco to close his betrayal of the Sahrawi people and his right to self-determination. Sahara Dempeus's companies literally told us today in the morning – Oriol Puig and David Melero –: "We were on our way to the occupied territories of Western Sahara to find Sultan Khaya, an activist retaliated for Morocco, and the Moroccan police detained us and put us on a vehicle against our will. Thirty people around us, between police and people who haven't identified. On the outskirts of the city, where it has passed, two vehicles have come, they have taken us from the car and they have attacked us. We are in a car in the middle of the desert that presumably brings us to Agadir, a Moroccan city, at eight hours on the road. Today at seven o'clock we can get them and give them all our support to the Prat airport. Well, these are some of the first consequences of this great decision they've taken over the PSOE and the Spanish government. Congratulations and thanks for this great, lastly, contribution to public diplomacy, international politics and the resolution of the conflict in the Sahara, which will not be resolved by charging the resolutions of the United Nations, but, in any case, applying them in such a way that the Sahara can exercise the right to self-determination. Well, and with regard to the Ciutadans' motion we're dealing with, look, we already understand that you don't have better things to do than waste time with speculations about supposed relations of independence with Russia. We, who certainly have other priorities, understand that more serious, as we have already expressed in the House of Parliament's motion on the war in Ukraine, we are here another time to confirm that we reject the Russian military invasion of Ukraine; that we denounce the direct responsibilities of the United States and NATO in the generation of this conflict for its systematic incomplete of the pacts and agreements on the demilitarization of the region; that we denounce the direct responsibilities of the United States and NATO in the generation of this conflict for its systematic incomplete of the pacts and agreements on the demilitarization of the region; that we denounce the sovereignty of Ukraine, which will only be possible outside Russia's control and beyond NATO's control; that we reject the pre-scalated bellicist army; that we call for the compliment of the agreements reached in Minsk; that we reiterate the development and application of agreements and agreements that are based on the principle of neutrality and the principle of the principle of military terrorism; that we reject the honour of the agreement between the Ukraine's war and the war settlement of Ukraine's war; that we renew the sovereignty of the war; that we renew the agreement on the development and the sovereignty of Ukraine's agreement with the development and the sovereignty of the sovereignty of the development and the sovereignty of the sovereignty of the sovereignty of Ukraine; that we renewing of the agreement; that we renew the peace of the agreement; that we renew the agreement; that we renew the agreement; that we renew the agreement of the agreement on the agreement on the agreement on the agreement on the agreement on the agreement on the agreement on the agreement with the peace of the development and the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace; that we are the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace; that the peace; that the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace; that we are the peace; that we are the peace; that we are the peace; that we are the peace; that we are the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace; that we are the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace; that We demand, therefore, the same rights of asylum and refuge for all people from humane crises. We call for a speedy diplomatic and political resolution of the conflict, which immediately ended with war and its destruction. And finally, we denounce that in the framework of a militaristic and Bellicistic relationship it is intended to justify that the popular classes of the world's arrest, and also of this country, must pay with their impoverishment the cost of the crisis aggravated by war and speculation with basic goods and sub-administrations on the part of capital. And yes, we denounce the thousands of dead and wounded people, as well as the millions of people displaced by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, as we also denounce the more than 2_million dead people, the countless wounded and the millions of displaced by military attacks and invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan, among others, with the participation of the United States, NATO, the European Union and the Spanish State, which you have not denounced and of which you have been political accomplices, as are also from the apartheid of the State of Israel on the Palestinian people. You certainly have nothing better to do than waste your time with speculations of B series films. We, who have other priorities, will continue to denounce the violations of the right of the people's collections and to fight for their recognition and respect for everything, and also to fight for the right of our people's collections, despite their B series films. And we will do it – and we will do it – with all the resources of public diplomacy that are in our midst at every moment. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.102.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.103.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... I would also like to begin by showing our solidarity with Sahara Dempeus' companions who have been held back and mistreated by the security forces of the Moroccan government. I would like to say that, unfortunately, it is not a new fact or an incomprehensible act of foreign policy on this issue of the Socialist Party, because this has been going on for a long time, it has been a long time since the Moroccan Government prevented any visits to the occupied territories because it is able to detect violations of human rights by international observers. In fact, I want to remind you that, about two years ago, a delegation from this Parliament tried to access an agenda to find us with human rights organizations and entities in Western Sahara, and the Moroccan government also prevented us from getting off the plane and prevented us from doing this job. And I also want to take advantage of the non-legislative proposal that this morning was debated and approved at the Congress of Deputies, where it was approved that Spain must re-respect the framework of the resolutions of the United Nations with respect to what it does to the resolution of the conflict of the Sahara, a resolution that has evidenced the enormous strategic error that, in this case, the Socialist Party has begun. And now, by focusing on what today's theme is, which is... we already saw it coming, fifteen days ago we had a motion following an inquiry, we made another question, and we went back to this obsession that the City Group has with continuing to sweep all the issues with the process to see if, with a bit of luck, they don't disappear from the corners on which we are now sitting. I have to tell you that it's not a good result that you're giving them if we stick to what you came out of the CEO today, because it seems to be that, finally, yes, we won't have the pleasure of sharing with Ciutadans' companies and companies in our own legislature. And we will certainly get rid of many of these absolutely barbaric interrogations and barrages that make any issue with the process. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because I don't know if they're okay, they're not working very well. Maybe it's worth it that at some point they reflect that continuing to deal with a conflict that no longer exists may no longer give them the electoral results that they gave them in a moment. And why do I say that, too? Because this young man is not from Ukraine, he's not from this. This young man has to whitewash the extreme right, because you insist on talking about the relations of political forces, in this case the relations of the political party of Mr Puigdemont with sectors proper to President Putin, but you are strongly denying who are the relations of the VOX party with sectors proper and with oligarchs proper to President Putin, but also with Mr Orbán and with other policies that are Putin's entry arm into the European Union. You're refusing to talk about VOX relations with the Kremlin. Why? The question is, why? Why don't you worry about it the same way, when you're more than contrasting, how can you read investigations like the researcher and historian Steven Forti? You're talking about what happens in the media, but you don't want to read it all. They just want to read what they need to implement it politically here. Who's been submitting papers to this young man? VOX.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Who feels comfortable with this young man? VOX.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because they're giving them the opportunity to whitewash those who say that Guernica may have been bombarded weren't so bad and maybe those who bombed weren't... I'm sorry, they weren't so good, and those who bombed weren't so bad. And with these they are with you coming to terms with points of this place and with those who share the strategy of disclaimer of Catalonia's foreign action, which has many things to improve. And they must have heard us many times: "More transparency, more priority, more focus on development cooperation, in official development assistance. What must they come to compare? Yeah. They also have one thing that is said to be required to appear, that they can register and, if they get the necessary support, they will come to do it. What we don't understand is why we need to put this specific focus on government delegates and not on other government delegates. Because I also say to them: if there is an area of the Government of Catalonia that has been monitored until the end of the Court of Auditors' intervention and that has asked for strategic bonds, it is precisely the Department of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, transparency and accountability, all that they want. Barrages, trying to whitewash the extreme right with their relationship with Putin, no, they won't find us in this. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.104.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Rius has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.105.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise... Well, with this young man, I already announce to you that we will vote against it, logically, we are ahead of Ciutadan's whole intent and other parties to seek to link President Puigdemont and his involvement with Russia. And also take advantage to pose for the Mig the Council for the Republic and the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is done profiting, moreover, from the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the war crimes perpetrated by Putin. It's not the first time I've told them, and I'll repeat it as many times as I need, but they don't play with the dead or with the wounded in Ukraine. Not using a human drama to make Spanish nationalism. Yesterday the Councillor, Comin to the European Parliament, also told them: they are immoral. In his motion, he claims that there have been contacts between President Puigdemont and his background and with the Kremlin, and to support them by saying that they have been accredited for reliable journalistic information. The immoral gang, they're also undocumented. If you were careful and informed, you would know that this published information is based on a supposed report of European intelligence. And I would also know that the same European Commission, by writing and by the mouth of the same Mr Josep Borrell, which I believe is not an independentist, has denied that there is a report of European intelligence. Therefore, lords of Ciutadans, base this young man on fake news. Actually, what they're presenting today is a young fake. And, in fact, they also see your political action probably you who are a fake political formation. Why, instead of using these fake news created for the state's locksmiths, they never refer to real reports, solvents and signatures such as Amnesty International, such as the International Trail Watch, such as the Council of Europe's Civics report, as well as the reports of the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Group? That they don't like that they claim and denounce that there is political persecution against Catalan independenceists? Don't they like it? What have political prisoners in the Spanish State not like them either? Why don't they ever refer to the feelings of Germany and Belgium? It is feelings that question that the events of October 2017 can be held under the crime of sedition. They also question or, more clearly, claim that they are not assured that exiles can have a fair trial of the Kingdom of Spain. It doesn't fit them, does it? This bothers them, I suppose – these reports. I don't suppose, as they've already been told, they're not surprised that The Economist says they're a defective democracy. If they want to, I'll tell them more. Mirin, yesterday also said President Puigdemont: while in Catalonia millions of Catalans in 2016 were peacefully demonstrating for the streets of Catalonia, do you know what the Spanish authorities are doing? « Replying to their Russian warships ports, and they did so on 16, 17, 18, 19. More true. Meetings and hand connections between Mr. Rajoy, Pedro Sánchez, Alfonso Dastis, Josep Borrell, with Putin or with members of his Government. Well, that's proven. Or congratulations from Nadal who reprimanded King Philip VI of the same Putin. In fact, if they are interested in Russian schemes, why have they not done as the Joint Parliamentary Group has done in Madrid and ask for the relations that the Spanish authorities have had with Russian political and economic interests? Use the truths, lords of Ciutadans, and follow them. First, ask for an appearance by President Puigdemont; then, postpone it, and then withdraw it. What are you doing for them? That they don't see each other with color? It's not that bad, that we've already asked for it ourselves. And a sign respects the Council for the Republic and its relationship with the Department of Foreign Affairs. This same Parliament has approved a motion recognizing the task of the Council for the Republic in the international arena, among others. This young man's a good man. The Parliament of Catalonia is its democratic representation of the Catalans' will. Or don't you agree with that? I'm done. The work we've done and done every day with President Puigdemont is what made me feel like doing politics. That's what we independents do: politics. We won't let anyone hold our reputation. The story will be written in Catalan and from the hand of President Puigdemont, and always – always – will find us at his side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.106.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.107.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... from here too all the support for sexist attacks, masculinists and xenophobs that sometimes, on the extreme right, can endure, right? , on the part of many members, not only of the Government, but also of this Parliament. And, therefore, all solidarity. [[Greetings.]] Like all the support and solidarity for the activists also of Sàhara Dempeus, who have been detained by the Moroccan government. And I also always reiterate the demand that the resolutions of the United Nations be fulfilled and that there may also be a self-determination reference to Sahara as it is deserved and recognized. On the motion that Ciutadans has presented to us, from the Republican Left, we also announced our vote against, because, sadly, we see, once again, how noble ideas such as Europeanism, the defense of democracy and human rights, the gathering of refugees or transparency and good governance to launch confrontational messages, to lay accusations and doubts on the basis of false ideas and manipulations. And many times, unfortunately, have also shown us many and many that they do not seem to know it in any other way and end up giving them to the extreme right, as we have seen here today, to fascism, xenophobia or masculinism, and dividing and breaking the coexistence and cohesion of our society. This young man we understand is going back to undermining and pursuing independence, now with the excuse of the war of Ukraine and Putin. And it does not seem to us to be honest or worthy of instrumentalizing a situation as difficult as the war in Ukraine to make partisanship and politics. President Aragones has always made it very clear – always – that Catalonia is and will be at the side of democrats. Councilwoman Alsina spoke clearly, defending diplomacy and multilateralism alongside the European institutions in order to tackle authoritarianism. In this Parliament, in the past Ple, with the companies of Juntes for Catalonia and with left and common ideas, we falsified the sentence to the Russian aggression defending democracy and the culture of the pa to resolve the conflict. Ernest Maragall also made it clear: "Independence has a democratic compromise and always rejects any connivance with authoritarian rules. And, in fact, this Parliament has said that the aggression of the Russian Federation is a frontal attack on international law and democracy, that the response of all institutions, also Europeans, will mark the future of our society and that we have no room for doubt here. We can only respond to a conflict between democracies and authoritarianism reinforcing democracies and the culture of the pau. For this reason, we will not support your intention, with this young man, to appear divided and break that consensus. Today we affirm the Europeanist vocation of Catalan society and of all its institutions, that sovereignty is and will always be at the expense of democracy and against authoritarianism. And let us reiterate that, unfortunately, the danger, the danger, is the nationalism of the state and that, unfortunately, we in Spain have seen this rebellion against the state of law and the European judicial order with a massive judicial power colonized by the right and the ultra-right and, sometimes, also by the hand of the Spanish Government, when the resolutions of the Council of Europe, of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and when the Euroorders are instrumental in pursuing and criminalising independence, as we have also seen this week in Luxembourg. Nor will we support his obsession with criminalizing and destroying the external action of the Generality and Catalan society. An external action that is legitimate, constitutional and develops rigorously and transparently. And the Catalan foreign action has been and will always have a vocation of openness, positive, seeking mutual respect, to be shared with all the partners and the world's parties, with whom we always act and have acted under the guide of democratic principles. And from here also express all the support and trust to the workers and workers, great professionals, who for years have been building alliances, building cooperation, opening up our society and who are, both in the Generality and in civil society, with entities and NGOs, also with public-private structures, such as in their day the Catalan Patronage Pro Europe or what is the Diplomacy. Generate trust. This external action generates prosperity and wealth in our country, economic, social and cultural. So I stop criminalizing all this work, I stop pretending to criminalize independence. The ballot boxes are coughing, the one who doesn't win the ballot boxes wants to win it in other bands. But we have a president of the Republican and Independentist Generality, with a legitimate, democratic political project that helps to advance. And yes, unfortunately, we have a political conflict that is still alive and that will only resolve with amnesty and self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.108.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.109.0	Very briefly. David Pérez of the Socialist Party told us that there was already enough transparency on the web. Well, you will remember – you will remember – that sometimes, as a member of the Bureau, you have had to denounce the lack of transparency of the External Action and Transparency Board. And you will also recall a report by Borrell on the illegality of the embassies, which is missing in some drawer. As for Mr Riera, of the CUP, he has told us that we are complicit in not knowing how many things, but the truth is that here we are speaking about a war that has begun a tyrant called Putin. This..., the European Union is an area of freedom and democracy, and you are not very clear about the concept of democracy, and that is why you may be hugging totalitarians, murderers, kidnappers and terrorists. And as for the commons, I would say to you: Mrs Segovia, you will therefore vote that not everything, as the CUP does. You are one of the main problems of our society, which is left-wing populism united with populist nationalism, and you are the perfect storm for societies, who radicalize, who close the spaces to democracy. And with you, of course, as great destabilizers and political tensions in countries and liberal democracies, Putin will be delighted. You are concerned if VOX charges Putin; us too, but we also care if We can charge Venezuela and Iran. And what you don't care about is who charges Puigdemont or who meets Puigdemont. Mr. Alay, Spokesman of Junts per Catalunya, recognized on TV that he had contacts, huh? So don't tell me... don't try to lower them now. Finally, we accept Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 8 of VOX. The rest did not improve the text or were the political framework of your party and not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.110.0	Well, thank you very much. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late when the twenty-three-point of the order of the day is over. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the needs of the public school]] [[302-00125/13]] Let us now turn to the twenty-two on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the needs of the public school, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. And she has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.111.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, this young man I'm defending today is a young man of minimums, minimums and maximums. At the very least, because the least we can do for the educational community, for our young people, for the teachers of our education system, for the people who have democratically chosen us to represent them and who follow their view of the institutions, is... the least we can do is demand the resignation of Councilman Cambray. And, therefore, using the mechanisms that this institution provides to us, we urge the Government to cease the Councillor and we urge the parliamentary groups here in its parliament to approve its reprobation. But, as I said, this is also a motion of the highest, because it is the fruit of the highest consensus, given that it reverses the main demands of the Board of Variance, which, this time and for the first time, from many years ago, is a unitary committee that binds all unions in the educational sphere and, therefore, mediating which all the union education community is represented in it. At the very least, because the least we would have to guarantee to the educational community and to its workers is job stability, without a fraudulent timing or a decree of plants that puts in danger their place of work, year after year; the access of all children and young people to education, without any discriminatory barrier, guaranteeing equity and equal opportunity; the same is for the development of the same work, and with this reference to FP staff, who should already be incorporated into secondary education staff. Also at a minimum, because what we have to guarantee is a work place that guarantees the time to schedule the course, organize the groups, schedule, and allow coordination between materials and departments for the development of more competitive projects, and not depend on an improvised calendar, without consent and that does not take into account the teaching staff. Also, because the least we can guarantee is democracy in the centers, because the direct teams, of course, like our advisor, who has done us the favor of accompanying us, can't decide [[some applause]] For and instead of the teachers. At the very least, because we have to guarantee the recovery of the purchasing power of the and the teachers, in anticipation of the details, and that it is recognized its antiquity, that the six-year-olds return to the six-year-olds and do not change the category or the name, in order to say "stay, in order to be able to collect at the nine-year-olds. And also at least, because the least we can guarantee our school, the Catalan school, is that it is public and in Catalan. And most importantly, because education is one of the most important pillars of our society. That is why, for our education system, we have to guarantee the maximum inversion, and therefore, as a minimum, the inversion of the six_per_cent of our GDP. We cannot marvel at the educational systems of other European countries and not even reach the half of the investment they are making in education. These days, in this same chamber, the different parliamentary groups have gone out asking, on one side, for the disruption of the situation and, on the other, directly for the termination or resignation of the councillor. So, ladies and gentlemen, now, today, here, in the next few minutes, you will have the opportunity to vote and approve the Councillor's reprobation. And I hope and wish that they will continue to be consistent with the speeches and petitions they have made during these days and vote responsibly. They show that they have not only been worded, that they have not only asked for it because now it is the theme of fashion. They show that they really want it, they show the educational community that they are at their side. Because failure by different parliamentary groups will actually cause the government to decide whether or not to play with our rules. This failure will put the cards above the table, and it will be decided by the government to decide what it will do from now on. Therefore, they vote in favour of their reprobation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.112.0	Now the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.113.0	Thank you, President. Counseller, miri, weeks ago that we are experiencing an educational crisis unprecedented to the past decades, a crisis provoked by the forms of a counselor who has not understood that educational changes, that educational policy must be carried out with the complicity of the educational community, especially with directions, with the closures of educational centres; with dialect, this dialect that they so much demand, but that they do not practice, and seeking agreement, and obviously never against their own or against the competitive opposition of families. It would cost a day of today to find a satisfactory sector with the management of the councillor: neither the unions, nor the addresses, nor the families, nor the concertation, nor the assemblies, nor the movements of pedagogical renewal; none. And we ask ourselves how this might be so in a presuppositional context that it's not that of the 12th, but that it's growth, facing the arrival of resources from the state government and the European Union, and seeing, as you see, the end of the pandemic. We said yesterday to the councilman: because of his inflexible attitude, to some extent arrogant, that he did not seek the complicity necessary to achieve a social agreement. And many weeks have passed, as I said, there have been mobilizations, which can continue in the third quarter; tanks; revolt between the School Council of Catalonia; a wave of five days, and today it is not guaranteed that the proper course begins with the necessary tranquility and normality. And to the Socialists and Units Group to move forward, that's what we're worried about, and a lot. Yesterday our group made a proposal to the Government, a sincere proposal, to address a crisis situation that saw Catalonia. We proposed a shoc plan, a presuppositional modification, to recover the proper course the working conditions of the faculty, prior to the details, are like the only autonomous community that has not yet done so; to deploy immediately the inclusive education system. I want to remind you that we have a decree from 2017 that Esquerra put in a cove. It is urgent to make the deployment, but also to provide the necessary teaching and non-teaching resources to support all educational stages and all educational centres in Catalonia. This is a right and can't wait any longer. And also to provide a modern and cutting-edge professional training, at the height of our product model, providing it with the necessary resources, with an orientation service that we do not have; with a prospect of sectoral and territorial training needs that has not been done, that is dual, that is free. And, obviously, for the financing necessary for the support of the zero-three educational stage and the compromise to advance towards universalization to guarantee, precisely, this universal access. So, well, our extended hand wasn't much escorted. He didn't pick up the glove, maybe because there's an excuse that there's no resources in the current premise. But they're wrong. If some..., we don't have a good education conflict; some of them may have a good chance that this discomfort is chronic, but more than the PSC would like. We come from very difficult years, from dropping out of education, and today we pay for the consequences. It lacks fairness, better educational outcomes and discomfort of the faculty's conjunction. And my group wants to help resolve the situation, because education is a priority of the country: without educational opportunities, there is no future. And we must do what you are in our hands to give tranquillity to the educational community to do its work, to provide resources immediately for the proper course, which are necessary, and to push for change with agreement, with dialogue. But the counselor makes it difficult, every day and every minute makes it more difficult: neither does he re nor is he allowed to help. And, frankly, do we have a debate about whether or not to ask for the Councillor's dismissal, but about the reprobation? If this councillor has already failed, the citizenry and the education sector have failed him unanimously in their conjunction; all family associations have also called for his resignation. So, what do we say? Let's look for solutions; let's listen to the educational community. Do you want to advance the course? Okay. We're doing it with equity guarantees. And it has to be recognized that today there has been no capacity to explain what the offer will be in the afternoons of September: if they will be extracurricular, if they will be an expanded food service, when we already know the conflicts going on in this area, if they will be the same offer at all times, if we have differences... We worry, and very much. And, very importantly, I reversed the details in the working conditions of the faculty: we guaranteed the return to the secondary school and twenty-three to the primary school, plus six hours of coordination, the next course. The assumption will not be a problem if there is a political will of the Government: we will collect a presuppositional modification to make it possible for the proper course. And, obviously, I immediately resume negotiations with the vagaries committee on a voluntary basis to find and actually reach agreements. And for what it does to the rest of the points, we will vote in favour of guaranteeing salary equipping between the secondary school teacher and the FP technician. We will not support the three-year transition for the application of curricula, because what we want is to push and give the necessary format resources for a good deployment of these curricula. And we will not vote either for the deletion of the plant decree, because what we want is to review it; we understand that what it would be good to do is to review it and improve it. For what it does to language, we think that the Catalan must obviously continue to feel, that it is a language that requires special protection, but that the castle, like the official language, must also have the recognition of language of learning in order to guarantee this full domain of languages that we want for our young people. Therefore, we will not vote to the extent that you raise the failure to comply with the court judgment or that the català is the only vehicle language in the school. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.114.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.115.0	Thank you, President. Advisors, Members, Members... Before this CUP motion, I would like to point out that we, like Junts, want a quality education system, inclusive and fair to achieve the education success and comprehensive training of all – all – students. And our model is based on a two-pillar system: linguistic immersion and the Education Service of Catalonia. In this sense, we want to overcome the dichotomy between public and concerted centres to advance towards real and effective social integration within a common project. For this reason, as the CUP brings us a motion on the needs of the public school, I would like to point out that for us and Junts we lack the joint vision of the entire education system in our country. The best, the defense of the non-implantation of the feeling, the linguistic immersion, the curriculum, the calendar..., many of the themes that you spoke to your young lady affect the conjunction of the system. We are not outcasts; we work, listen and defend the entire education sector of the country. That said, I will also tell you that we will not call the councillor's cessation or reprobation, but we will ask the councillor..., that the reality and discomfort of the educated world prove it, that something has failed; it will be necessary to review the communication and improve the relationship with the educational community. We know that on the part of the council is already being done, but we do ask the councillor: dialy, dialy and dialy, that it is not enough to talk and that it is work to achieve the maximum possible consensus and agreement. I would also like to comment on the point of the motion that deals with the whole language. We ask not to apply the feeling of the TSJ that forces us to twenty-five percent of the castle to the classrooms. We at this point in the House are in complete agreement and we are voting for it. We don't want it to apply. For this reason and with the will to protect the centres, Parliament took the lead before four political groups to work to change the law of language policy to make legal regulations to protect us from judicial interference. An agreement that, above all, has put the country, the language, the schools, before the party, so as to avoid the compliment of the judgment; proposal that, after this political agreement in Parliament, as we are working together also to reach consensus with the whole educational community and with social entities in favour of language. We also tell the CUP Group that, first of all, it is necessary to protect the centres, since we do not want them to fall under legal responsibility. For this reason, we ask you to add to this proposal: our proposal is not to apply, but to protect. If we're just making his proposal, it's just applying, and that's what we're worried about, 'cause we're in the middle. May I remind you that we have already warned of the danger that the new law of Celaá was carrying us, that it did not shield the català, and we stayed alone, because you did not believe us and voted for it. And now we're seeing it: it's still going to happen and this sentence can be applied. Also in this young man we want to reaffirm our commitment and preservation of linguistic immersion. Language immersion is guaranteed; the LEC has not touched, the immersion is intact. The català as language conveying to the whole educational system is not questionable. It's part of Junts' DNA. It's a red line. Now, it must be that from the decree and the resources that the department elaborates reinforcement, we evaluate the compliment of this immersion in the schools. And I'd like to say to you, finally, that being a teacher is a laborious, difficult and sometimes exhausting task – I know it well, I've devoted more than twenty-two years – much more than people think. Sometimes he thinks that working with children and children, with teenagers, is easy, and often it's just about his holidays or his holidays, as if only the complaint was to reach his best of his professional convenience. And I have to tell them that being a teacher and a good teacher is an ingenious job, that requires a lot of calling. And all the teachers who work there – all of them, I know for sure – are working and working to improve the skills of young people, because we know that these are the young people of our future. Now, yes, that's the key to listening to your voice. But we also know – and the educated world knows it – that they must also put on their side. Teachers and teachers know that they are constantly changing and renewing and that uncertainty is part of their time and professional environment. Constantly changing the profession of teaching is necessary. The education system must accelerate if it does not want to lose pace or become obsolete, and this, which is inevitable, is also good and necessary. But, yes, so that he is with them and not without them; that he keep them side by side and join together to face all the changes that come and fall on us, so as to make this welfare that he can finally have the educational community all those changes to bring us to a better education for the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.116.0	I, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.117.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Impeccable and implacable in the defense of català, of the model of Catalan school and of the social cohesion that it supposes; neither a doubt, nor a lesson, nor political wear with language and school. You won't find us, the people of the Republican Left, using it, because it's a social treasurer. And if one thing we do and do is look for ways to protect Catalan language, encourage it and improve its learning in a model we want from country, not from country. [[Some applause.]] In fact, the strategy of wear and tear is so clear in this motion that today we are presented that, in order to try to get the Councillor's reprobation, they have decided to explicitly renounce the reference of the linguistic immersion that they owe at this point. If you pull the fail is because today the CUP is looking for the support of the PSC and the right of the parliamentary arch at the expense of immersion, only for wear. [[Greetings.]] And I hurt us deeply, because that's not what it's about. We need the consent experiment of the eighties that he pulled into the law of linguistic normalization and not let any idea that català is just the language of the independenceists. We want to look for ways to move forward and protect the language that goes back to school, and we don't need to keep quiet about the wear and tear. As in the language, we want to look for answers also to the discomfort we have felt these days on the street – in collecting requests from and out of the motions – but above all we also ask everyone to be responsible for negotiating, also in the march of the sectoral months, and keeping the negotiation open to make it re-exist, especially because sometimes we don't see other things. Mirin, Education has taken the seventy_percent of the demands of the teaching unions for an agreement; due to the fourteen measures they have taken: one hour less class per week, fewer students per class, reduction of fees, not more than a third of a day but a half-day, increase the personnel of direct attendance at the alumni, equal pay to the FP, stabilize the staff of the interest and the stability pact – will be less than two_per_cent per year 24–, can apply the new curriculum in a three-year transition – here we have presented the transaction with the deputy–, defend the immersion and assume responsibility from the department, the two reduction hours for more than fifty-five years. Real negotiation: 14th. And, in agreement with this– and concretely with the points of his motion–, we say: responsibility of the department in the application of immersion– all and more–, as determined by Article 15 of the LEC, which maintained linguistic immersion because we want our model and protect it. And it is clear that the department assumes responsibilities such as presenting a government agreement on the defense of the catalá, the statements of its own advisor and drawing up a decree to deploy the language system of the education system. Yours in the resume. I thank the transaction again, because they know that the department has moved with the three-year transition. Also the transaction to which we have come from the professional formation for the equipping of the teacher. And then they ask for the restorative schedule for all staff for course 22-23. The department's agreement or proposal for agreement is to make course 23 primary and course 24 secondary – an inversion, certainly, of 170_millions, equivalent to forty institutes. For what he does to the school calendar, look, for us to move forward is a pedagogical, substantial criterion for equal opportunities. We are already surprised that the Socialist Party has opposed it, because it is a good measure for students and family reconciliation, and they know why they tried it in 2009. They have the opportunity to return there, even though Ernest Maragall, a councillor there, is now from Esquerra Republicana, but again they have the opportunity. [[Some applause.]] In summary, let's add where we can add with pedagogical and consensus criteria – we won't play at wear. Today they ask to fail the councillor who has placed public finance on the choices that secrete by sex; today they ask to fail the first councillor who plans the download of routes; today they ask to fail who accepts the seventy_per_cent of the complaints of the educational community, despite the difficulties to negotiate. We ask for a long look, to refocus the debate on the need to put the student in the centre and jointly undertake an educational transformation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.118.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.119.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late. That there is a shocking cry within the educational community against Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray is so obvious that even the same members of the Government cannot conceal it. Unilateral eraser of the curriculum, known thanks to a leak in the press, that fulcrums the effort and knowledge; disastrous management of the places of professional training; lack of equalization of salary of the teacher of professional training; harassment of the concerted school and persecution of the differentiated and the special; sexual indoctrination in the classrooms; contempt of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of twenty-five_per_cent of the Spanish teaching in the classrooms, in schools; imposition of the level C2 of Catalan for all teachers; lack of firm and clear determination, immediate, to end the barracks, with the tear of the school barracks and with the instability, immediately, of the interim teachers; disastrous management of the crisis of the sixth wave of the covid, which has left thousands of places of teachers uncovered, and, finally, the announcement by Mr Aragonès and his advisor of Education of the advance of the school course without consenting absolutely to anyone, because I value it. This list of grievances we've been denouncing from VOX since the whole legislature. They are anomalies caused and enquished by the lack of circumspection of Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray, by his way of proceeding caciquil, as far away from reality as from consensus and the contrast of opinions. That is why we have asked Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray to resign at the last two plenary sessions and also at the last sitting in committee. We see that in the present motion of the CUP you have joined, the gentlemen of the CUP, in our demand to reprimand and cease Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray. Welcome. And the gentlemen of the PSC, do they add to the reprobation? It's just that I didn't get it very well when Congresswoman Niubó spoke. It seemed to me to understand that no, but maybe I'm not right, because, if I wasn't, often paper after so much complaint. On the other hand, although in their motion they speak only of the public school, no matter what the weight, hundreds of thousands of Catalan citizens have chosen the model of school agreed upon by virtue of their freedom and article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution, because it seemed to them so convenient. And in that concerted school, thousands of professionals work, just as – just like – excellent as those of the public and suffering from the same dysfunctions, the same problems as in the public school. By extending to the concerted school certain claims that you propose only for the public, we will support some of the points of this motion, since they are requests that in VOX we have been demanding without cracks throughout the entire legislature, as I said before. In what we do not agree at all is in its totalitarian plan to impose monolingualism through the evil so-called "linguistic immersion, jumping to the torera the sociolinguistic reality of Catalonia, the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and silence the ridiculous follow-up that has been given to the strike that you have promoted on March 23, and that has had a tiny follow-up – a six_per_cent in the public and a three_per_cent in the concert. However, I have to tell you, Mrs Ndiaye, that this motion, even at the points where we agree, is a wet paper, is delegitimized, despite its vehemence in defending the, totally because of the existential incoherence of the CUP. I'll explain. In 1335 Don Juan Manuel wrote Count Lucanor and put in the mouth of Patronio the following apologist or fable. In example 5 you will find it, if you want to read it. A black raven caught with his beak a piece of cheese and snuck through a tree with the intention of eating it so that no one would bother him. There passed a fox, and when he saw him flattered him, saying, "What beautiful feathers do you have! What eyes! What a beak! What an extraordinary flight! Everything in you is fabulous. Could you tell me if your song is so wonderful, too? The raven, what he did was: in the midst of that constant flattery, he opened the beak to sing his song, fell the piece of cheese, the fox passed by, took it and, obviously, it was his purpose and came out winning with his insight. [[Some applause.]] The CUP has supported the Government. You voted in favour of Mr. Aragonès's investiture, getting those compliments, huh? And prebends. Now their lamentations serve nothing, let them know; they are barren, they are crocodile tears. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.120.0	After this interpretation of Count Lucanor [[relays]] , donate the word to Mr. Joan Carles Gallego, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.121.0	Well, good afternoon. There was discomfort in Catalan education, we knew – there was discomfort. Unfortunately, discomfort has become a conflict. Clearly, someone must be responsible for turning what is uneasy into conflict. Someone must be responsible for not having detected that in the Catalan education system there was a latent discomfort. Among the professionals of education? Certainly. Also between the conjunction of the educational community. Something wasn't rolling. It wasn't just the pandemic management for the Education Department under continuous improvisations and conflicting requests to the centers. It wasn't just this, the discomfort; the discomfort was getting reddened before the pandemic. The discomfort was almost reddening since the year 2012, when unilaterally they imposed a few flaps. Yes, not just a few presuppositions; unilateral failure of agreements signed in legally established months of negotiation was imposed. Accords signed the year 1993, 2005, 2007..., 1995, also – I have neglected some. Agreements that had established the working days of the teachers, the management of the interns, the management of the working conditions of the substitute staff, the six hour, in their case, remunerative questions in relation to the staff. They went unfulfilled one after the other agreements that had been signed. Those agreements that were retalant, retalant and retalant ended up creating a real discomfort in the educational system, that took the professionals of education, that they suffered, this direct discomfort, but that the counter-respondence with the will always to put the student in the center of the educational process and to attend to it. And this discomfort was..., it obviously gets worse with the pandemic, because of the mismanagement that it is doing, with these contradictory requests and red tape that it is doing at the center. But, unfortunately, this discomfort is turned into conflict, because the person responsible for detecting this discomfort and converting it by giving it around, trying to solve it, makes it worse with new unilateral impositions of changes in a sector that was already very tense. And here's a problem. Who has not been able to understand that the education system was ill and, therefore, has turned unrest into conflict and then has not been able to manage this conflict, hardly now, that the conflict, unfortunately, is installed and radicalized, is able to find the normal, necessary outcome, in this conflict by the way of an agreement, of a consensus with the educational community and with the legal representatives of the workers and workers of education. This I believe is one of the elements for which we will support the motion presented, at all points of the motion presented. When the Councillor's failure or cessation is raised, it is not merely rhetorical, it is the recognition of the inability to manage a conflict of that which has not been able to detect that there was a real discomfort in the education system and has not been able to lead the outcome of this discomfort. Because this is the responsibility that a counselor has to take on if he wants to lead, precisely, the functioning of the Catalan education system for the best educational attention of children. If he didn't, he's hardly on condition to do it today. It could be on condition to do so if it is also able to complete the requests that are now on the table, which are, in essence, dialogue and negotiation, consensus, build agreements, which is also to put in place the resources and commitments needed to reverse these flaps and provide the material bases necessary for the education system to function. And it also means that there are certain changes that need time to be transited, because changes always generate resistance – we know that. But if we want the changes to be possible, we need to overcome the resistances through the dialog, the consensus and the time for planning and why the changes can be effective. Otherwise, the changes will fail. That is why, obviously, we will vote on all the proposals in the motion submitted to the CUP, because we understand that they place conflict and put lives out in this conflict. All the more, and thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.122.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.123.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, Education Adviser, I must say at the outset that I cannot help but see, by my very nature, the situation that you are going through, because, in fact, you have managed to attract practically the unanimity of this Chamber in relation to the need for you to leave your post as Education Adviser, and the demand that the President of the Generalitat cease his lack of dialogue with the educational community and his lack of expertise in leading this council, this department so important to the Government of the Generalitat. I admit, sincerely, that I would not like to be in your shoes, because, certainly, you have achieved something difficult to get in this Chamber: to put according to the whole parliamentary arc, from the CUP to VOX, without exception. Admit that the best thing for education in Catalonia would be for you to leave office or for the president of the Generalitat to cease you. From this point of view, I do believe that you should be struck by something very important, which is your lack of dialogue on such important issues as the introduction of the new school calendar in view of the coming course. In this respect, we have already stated the other day in committee that it is not so much the substance of the matter. The substance of the matter seems to us, at least, accessible, does not seem to us to be foolish. But it seems to us that it is incomprehensible that you have taken that decision unilaterally, completely disregarding the indications of the School Council. And we believe that, in this regard, it would be normal to meet the demand of that School Council for a one-year moratorium on the entry into force or not of that new school schedule. Moreover, in these speeches that have preceded me I have heard all that retahíla of common places, of falsehoods, of fallacies that surround the debate on the language in Catalonia. The debate on the language in Catalonia is a debate, let us say, of red lines, it is a debate vetoed to the rational debate, to the debate of ideas, to an open debate, calm, calm, free of identity maximalisms. And that is why, in fact, the very words that are used are empty of content. The word "immersion" itself does not mean what many Catalans believe. Linguistic immersion is, simply, the model that you intend to..., or that we have had so far in Catalonia, which is to do each and every one of the teaching hours in Catalan. It is clear that, in a bilingual society, the claim that all children, our children, are educated in one language, when Catalan society is naturally bilingual, is absolutely contrary to nature. It makes no sense, in a bilingual society, to introduce a system or impose an absolutely monolingual system. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the points that speak of the linguistic question. And, above all, we would like, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to have an open debate on this. I have long since done so from this rostrum, and my fellow citizens..., which we claim the need for this debate, because we are convinced that Catalan society, if it had truly rigorous, truly complete information about what this system of linguistic immersion means, could have the capacity to decide on a linguistic model, the educational model that best fits, fits, to nature, the context of Catalan society. And, in that sense, I think it is clear that the small presence of Castilian is not justified anywhere. The problem, I insist, is that here there are red lines: the red line of linguistic immersion, linguistic immersion is not touched. Well, I think that hurts us as a society. I believe that, moreover, paradoxically, this harms the Catalan language, generates a feeling of sentimental distance from many Catalans in relation to the other Catalan language, to Catalan in this case, and I believe that, from that point of view, nationalism is doing it a little favor to the Catalan language itself. As for this motion, it is true that it has points that are reasonable, that we are going to vote in favour of them in what seems to us to be consumable. We find it incredible and surreal to be asked of the Government..., it is not necessary to be asked, because the Government already makes it motu proprio, but, in any case, to be asked of the Government, the Government, to fail to comply with the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent of Castilian in the classrooms. But, in any case, there are points that seem to us to be consumable. And, therefore, in all that seems good to us for the educational community and for our children, we will vote in favour. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.124.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.125.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'd like to start with Mrs. Niubó. You said it wasn't worth it, right? , reprimand the counselor, because he has already been reprimanded for the educational community, but I have just been aware that his party has withdrawn the slogan. I'd like to know if it's like that. [[Pause.]] That's it. So, if you're really so convinced that you don't fit because the whole educational community has failed you, votes in favor of our point 2, that you say: "Cease the education counselor because he hasn't been able to dialogue and reach agreement with the educational community. Well, as Mrs. Palacín referred to, she said that we were willing to remove the point that speaks of language, and that is not true. That is to say, our 7th point says: "Reproving the Education Advisor for his lack of response to the requests for dialogue and negotiation of the educational community, for his lack of attention to his proposals and not to guarantee the model. But it's that we defend this model and have it included in the rest of the points. Therefore, it would be a repeated aspect to which..., it is not that we have renounced it; simply, it would be a question of drafting. Still, Mrs. Niubó has decided not to position herself. Even if you have presented a single question, only in this respect, and have decided to accept it from our parliamentary group, you have retreated. And maybe what we need to recognize is that they're going to end up with an undercover tripartite, or they have some interest in government parties for which the counselor doesn't want to fail, because I felt it in this chamber and in the different commissions asking for his resignation. Therefore, this passage is, with the least, questionable. As for the company of Junts, who said that they complied with the sentence and that they were in favor of the language. I repeat the words of my companion this morning: the language has come, and, if not, I read the proposal presented by the Synod of Greuges. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.126.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point, from this young man, is going to take a long time to get the next item on the agenda. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of education]] [[302-0126/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the situation of education, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.127.0	Well, nice late, again. To thank the papers presented, to thank also to who has made the effort to deal. Too bad I didn't get here in time to record a later transactional, but I hope there's no harm, that's the job done around an initial proposal that I understand is absorbable. Lack of dialogue, lack of self-criticism, lack of empathy with the legal representatives of the professionals of the education, for a song; unilateralized to impose changes, embolism in the initial position, attempt to confront the teacher collection with the society, this is the reference of the motion that we have presented. And what we claim is an effective and permanent dialog with the educational community, because changes are not required, because unilaterality never consolidates the process, more quickly the evil, the perverts. Changing the calendar, changing the curriculum, changing the zero-three funding model requires dialog, requires consensus, involvement of the different sectors affected to make them possible and effective. On the contrary, the changes generate, as we see, conflict. The resistances to the change can cause it to fail if you haven't generated the dynamics of everyone's involvement. This is why we ask for the moratorium on the calendar, which allows us to build a new consensus with the educational community to make it effective. This is why we ask for negotiation and agreement with the legal representatives of the workers, to make effective the reversal of the detail that so much discomfort the teacher are generating. This is why we ask for dialogue and institutional agreement and loyalty with local administrations for what it does to children's education, to make its generalization and its gratuitousness effective. The moratoria of the school calendar is a demand of the School Council of Catalonia. It is therefore a demand for the conjunction of the educational community, the families, the professionals of education, the local administrations. Because if we want to change the calendar we need consensus, and we need time to plan the change. Getting excited about not talking about the moratorium, not sitting together with the educational community to make the moratorium concrete, is wanting to make the change fail. What we need to understand is that with the educational community through a moratorium we can build an effective calendar that serves for the boys and girls to be better educated, but also because they can provide all the resources needed to give full attention in their learning process. Unilateral impositions have been said to be due to conflict. We are not before a mere malaise fruit of the mismanagement that the department has made of the pandemic in school functioning – improvising, changing criteria, overloading bureaucracies, not providing resources... –, that too. The mismanagement that has made is to put in evidence the details, the unilateral impositions of 2012, the unilateral failure of the agreements signed in months of negotiation legally established in the years 93, 97, 2005, 2007 and 2010, between the department and the legal representation of the workers – the unions. A unilateral imposition without negotiation of modifications in the teaching day, in the pay complements, in the pact for the stabilization of the staff concerned, in the management of the inter-internship bosses, in the management of the working conditions of the substitutions, in the six-hour period, in the aid to the extra-school colonies, etc. This is why the young person insists on the need to provide sufficient resources to reverse these details, these unilateral impositions, to resume those agreements, those conditions of work that they need to see, and very, with educational quality, with the time necessary for the individualized attention to the student, for the coordination of the teams, for the relationship with the families and for the professional dignity. Without effective negotiation, with no compromised resources and credible and fair reversal schedules, the conflict will remain alive, and a conflict is not good for anyone, nor for the education professionals, nor for the students, nor for the government, nor for the country. And, lastly, the motion proposes a possible, realistic, just solution with the problem that exists to the conflict that today is seen in the Hospitallet de Llobregat, where the educational community of a center, the Academy Culture, that some of its representatives are here with us, a center strongly stalled at the barri de la Torrassa, in an area of high demographic density, without spaces available for us, with clear needs of schooling, demands to the Education Administration a solution by way of integration into the public network. We're ahead of a real school problem, and it's a clan of families and teachers, the will to solve it. We are in front of a center with the will to be public, stalled in the territory, which clearly satisfies the need for schooling. It is not to engage infants in over-reactions, unnecessary displacements, the student's educational background loss, and perhaps at school break and drop-out. There is a possible solution, and we have found that there is a political consensus to address the necessary changes to make possible the solution to this real conflict that exists today and that affects many families of the Hospitallet. These are, to a great extent, the lines of our young man. It is necessary to overcome the lack of dialog; it is necessary for the advisor to assume the need for self-criticism, and it is necessary to get out of this maintenance and not to amend it in which it is installed. And I can understand that addressing a moratorium on the school calendar is a demand for families, teachers and also local administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.128.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.129.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Many things have already been said to the previous motion, but we also want to value the common motion, because it seems to us that it is a very complete motion. Also thanking that he 'nshagin accepted the majority of exams. But I'd like to start at the end. It is urgent that this Government, if it believes in education as a pillar of our welfare society, devote the effort it takes to seek an agreement with the educational community. We need an imminent agreement on our own days and hours. Do not perpetuate conflict or discomfort, why, to whom does the educational conflict fit? Does anyone have an indefinite vacancy? Is it okay for someone to start the course hint with a slot? They are not suitable for families, students or teachers. For this reason, it is urgent that the proper hours resume an effective and permanent dialogue with the educational community, as it is necessary to refer to confidences in order to get out of the current atzucac. And I say again: my parliamentary group is ready to move forward, to hold meetings with whom it will convince, at the next hour, to try to help. We'll get the social pau back to the schools. We guarantee a good school year 22-23. And that was very linked to the need to overcome once and for all this educational infrastructure march we find ourselves in. It cannot be that we continue to invest in education less than three per cent, when it is not even the half of what the LEC fixes, when it is too much under what the countries of our environment are doing, and everything the Spanish government is investing in. And it is no surprise that we have the educational problems that we have, so enquired, with the educational reversal that is intended for us. Therefore, we need to progressively increase this assumption. And, besides, I come back to say it: there is a majority in this Parliament to do it. Therefore, it is available. For what he does to the calendar – we have said it on other occasions – this has done very badly. It has begun very badly, and today it has very difficult solution, when we agree that an advance could be a positive measure if it has been granted, if it is not linked with a compacted September that will bring more inequality, if it has spoken to the directions, with the unions, with the leure, with the assemblies. And that's why what seems most reasonable and sensible is to rethink, do it well, take into account all the measures and resources that are needed. And, therefore, also ensure the freeness of out-of-school activities in non-readable hours in September evenings so that this change does not reverse into new inequalities between centres and pupils. And so, that's what sets the mood, and it looks like a good point. Now, from my group we are not in favour of shutting down the curriculum change, a change that seems to us to be positive, in line with the most educationally advanced countries. What needs to be done is to accompany this change, to do the necessary training, to be at the side of the cloisters, the directions. And, therefore, we understand that what the government has to do is push and accompany. You don't have to leave us, as the only autonomous community, to keep the resume green. And neither can we share point 6, which allows a differentiated financing of the bressol schools per territory. We understand that the commons were wrong to accept a financing to the law accompanying assumptions of 1,600 euros and not 1,800 euros per square, as it was established twelve years ago with a great deal of agreement with the municipalities. Therefore, a low import was accepted, and now they are demanding different funding for some cities. And it doesn't seem right to us. It's like concerts are different according to territorial reality and allow different modules according to territory. And, therefore, we cannot share that. Do we understand that a medium cost has to be fixed or, if not, how does it feel that in two parallel streets, one from Barcelona, the other from the Hospital, the two schools in Bressol have a differentiated financing? For what it does to the stability of the staff concerned, we will support this reduction in temporality, which is necessary, with a schedule of merit and opposition competitions granted. And, for what it does to professional training, effectively, it is a plan like what we have proposed in the framework of the alternating government, which should allow the creation of 38,000 new public places in the leading sectors of the future, which, in the band, are those that require the economic sectors of the country, because we understand that there is a lack of medium training in many sectors and also lacks talent for many enterprises. And, obviously, a sham for the inclusive education system. We said it before: he can't wait any longer, let's talk about a right. For what it does to zero-three education, it is very important that the Government is committed to the necessary funding and to the return of the debt of the joints, of course, but also to progress towards universalization, because until we guarantee this universal access to this educational stage there will be no real gratuity. And, finally, the Academy of Culture – I want to greet the members of the educational community who accompany us: unions, directors of the Hospitallet Assembly –, in a neighborhood like the Torrassa, with a great need for schooling. It can't be said that it's just a historical center. The Academy of Culture cannot be closed. And, listen, if there's a political will and the problem is legislation, let's change, change the decree for the integration of centers into the generality's ownership network to ensure those needing schooling there where there's only public, where there's trouble with buildings. Seek a solution to the integration of centers such as these, which may involve an overstatement around it, and maintain educational projects that are needed, such as this one from the academy. If there's a political will, let's find solutions, because there are. And, therefore, I just wanted to say that. Mrs. Nogay, I know she's not playing right now, but we've never asked for the councillor's resignation. I wanted to tell you why, well, a lot of things have been said lately. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.130.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.131.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, express that we are generally sufficiently in agreement with the proposal of the commons' party. From the point of view of the proposals it makes, we believe that it is a truly complete motion, which addresses questions that are fundamental to the education of our community, such as now, precisely, the education from zero to three and aspects that they also have to see with the application of the new school curriculum, also with the calendar, for which it makes to the application of the new school calendar previewed for the government. And in this sense, therefore, we say that we will vote in favour of several of the points of this motion, among others, precisely the one calling for the application of a moratorium on at least one year for the entry into force of this school calendar. We believe, above all – and I commented earlier – that it is not so much for the sake of the issue as for the fact that there is no effective dialogue with the educational community and that there is not exactly what the School Council says in this sense. Therefore, there are aspects that they also have to do with the stability of the faculty concerned and that they are led to reduce the temporality with a clear timetable of the merit and opposition competition; there are aspects that they have to do with the quality, precisely, of the performance that teachers have in the whole of the education system, and there are other more concrete aspects. This young man, in concrete terms, has something that I want to especially thank the group of common people that he has brought in these terms to this House, because I think he does it with all the will that the problems actually have a solution. And it's precisely in the line of what Mrs. Niubó said, everything she has to do with the Academy of Culture. I held the opportunity, invited for the City Group to the Hospital, to meet with peers and representatives of the school, the Academy of Culture. And I knew a truly distressed educational community for the hundreds of students who were left unanswered by the government with a lack of government decision at the time to integrate the Academy of Culture into the public school network in Catalonia. Many times the damage against the concerted schools that presides over our public debate makes it a vision of the concerted schools as an elitist thing. And more so than it seems to me that the fact of considering the conjunction of the concerted schools as an elitist phenomenon seems to me to be absolutely out of the question, what is obvious is that there are choices that, far from being an example of elitistism, as is the case with the School of Culture..., it is a case, precisely, paradigmatic to what extent a school can make a social pocket absolutely unpayable in a certain environment. And, in this case, visit the families of the Cultural Academy and show the great plurality of cases that exist in the world of the concerted school. Our position is a general defense of the importance of the concerted school for our educational system. But in this concrete case of the Academia Cultura, it seems to us absolutely fundamental, absolutely essential, that the Government takes the matter with responsibility, without taking away its commitments, and once and for all giving a response to the integration of the Academia Cultura into the public network of schools of our community; that they do so in a way, with the means they use, obviously always between what our legal framework is... but, obviously, I believe that it is essential that the Academia Cultura has an answer, which, moreover, has been promised by the Government of the Generalitat in some meetings that have been taking place for some time. For this reason, from our position, we will not only support this point of the young man, but also consider that it is absolutely right to do so. There are many cases like that of..., or there are other cases like that of the Cultural Academy, and we believe that the previous one must also serve because the government's grasp of this issue always tries, to the extent possible, to safeguard these educational communities that represent an element of cohesion– this yes– social in their barrels, in their populations. So we, in general, have already commented that there are many aspects to which we are very much in agreement. In fact, even some points have been withdrawn that we do not see so clearly, and we value very much the will of consent in this sense. And we will vote in favour of points such as, for example, "to devote the necessary efforts to seek an agreement immediately with the educational community that allows you to recover – I finish, President – "the social pau to the educational centres and guarantee a good school year 2022-2023. Because as a society, I think we deserve it, and we don't have to tolerate an instability like we've suffered in the last few months because of the Councilman's lack of dialogue. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.132.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.133.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... we're meeting with a young man who... if we read all the points, in the background they also come to expose a little what is the educational model of the formation that presents it, of the commons. And perhaps we will also take advantage of the Junts for Catalonia, to explain a little what our model is, the model that forms part of this Catalonia of yes, which illusions, of progress, of future and which I think pleases many of you, because we have seen red posters, of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which possess: « Barcelona for yes. That is to say, this Catalonia also illusions you. So, we'll start with our own. For a yes to free school, zero-two education. A yes to the dialy; always dialy: with the educational community, with the masters, with the peers, to face all the changes, everything you see. Yes to the autonomy of the management of centers to adapt better to the reality and the needs of the students. Yes to a professional training that advances to a dual model, to improve job placement. Yes to the 21st century school, to form citizens with critical and adapted knowledge to the new model of digital, open and advanced society. And, of course, yes to the català as the language to drive to the school; we will never give up. The Catalonia of yes is not a slogan; it wants a country that must be a pioneer, a country that, if it were free, we are sure that education would be at the centre of everything, as it is and must be to the most advanced societies. For this reason, from Junts to Catalonia, we work and will continue to work for a pioneering and quality education, because a country that considers itself to prioritize its educational quality above all. And, if we start with the yeses, we'll talk about this zero-to-two gratuity, which was already on our electoral agenda and also on the accord of government with the Republican Left. And, therefore, we are grateful that an agreement has also been reached with all the municipalist entities, because it is really a stage where we are forced many times, because families work, to bring the children to school, and sometimes we cannot sort. Because at the school in the district, I didn't have a public school, and when I went upstairs to this kindergarten, and I still felt like a huge family, we found ourselves having to go to the lot to get into it. That would be one of the reasons. And the other reason would be for the model of school that we prioritize, which is the educational system of Catalonia, which does not distinguish by title. And, therefore, if you have also helped for this private, we will continue to work because gratuitousness also reaches 100 percent of children of all kinds of titles. And also a yes to curriculum changes, because it is obvious that society has evolved and that curricula have to advance as this society evolves, as it needs..., the education that our children need to face this future. We haven't invented curricular modifications. They are recommended for most experts in the world of education, for OECD reports, for UNESCO reports. But it's true that the changes cost and, like they cost, as the counselor said the other day, this community has to accompany itself. And, as I also gave to the counselor the other day, it is not only the teachers who have to accompany themselves, but also the families, because these changes cost everyone. And, as the mother of a school that has advanced into the 21st century school in this project, I tell her that they also need understanding from parents. And, as we say before, a country that believes it invests a lot in the formation of its citizens. The basis for the welfare of Nordic countries is formation and education in general. When we have a state, we're sure we can invest, like the Nordic countries, to create a real knowledge society. And that's why we need funding. And, therefore, forward and agree with this six per cent of GDP, but we do not want it to shift its focus. We are willing to come to this reversal, but we also believe that we can remember, once in a while, this underfunding that Catalonia is suffering and that we are sure that, if you get to the level that we need to finance in education, we would be giving an education system like that of the most advanced in Europe. Therefore, we will continue with these yeses. Another yes, to professional training. We understand that it is necessary to promote vocational training, because it is essential for the incorporation of our young people into this market. And why – we have said it many times and in many interventions – there is a lack of qualified technical staff to the companies; the room in Barcelona says it: a seventy-nine_per_cent. And the key area to getting to this is vocational training. It's a repte pending that we have with the country. To find ourselves in situations similar to those in northern Europe, we need to dignify and enhance vocational training. The public does, but also the public-private sector, from the hands of the sectors and companies, who know better than anyone that training is necessary in their sectors. Finally, we also refer to plant stability – I think it has already been announced –; more than thirteen thousand places that will lie on this deu_per_cent request. And I want to end up making an element of the School of Culture, of the Hospital, to communicate all our support to the continuity of this school, to all its educational community. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.134.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, in this block of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.135.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies... Company directors of the Hospitallet, educational community of the Academy of Culture, welcome guests. This is your house, this is the house of the people of Catalonia. Company Gallego, before starting, would like to have a reminder for company Jordi Jordan, who was the one who made the inquiry that gave the motive to this young man and who, unfortunately, on these days can not accompany us for malaise. But from here on out, we want a quick recovery, because it's good that he's recovered and that he's back here in the fight in the parliamentary arch. So, Jordi, get it back. Let's get into the matter. The motion touches various questions. And today, before, we have had a CUP motion; now we have this common motion, which more or less rotates over the same aspects, but in very different tones – in very different tones. We are grateful for this report by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which I believe is a purpose. In effect, the dialog, always – dialog, always. No dialy, it's not moving. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And that's politics. Politics is also a dialect. Politics is an agreement. When we don't get to the deal, we're not doing our job well. When we lock the doors to the dial, no doubt we won't have a chance to get there. And I think it's important that in our DNA, too, this is very well reflected. I believe, Members and Members, that one of our obligations is not to place so many red lines and to be better able to agree, to dialogue and, finally, to make politics, to make good politics. And I think that in this young man we were able to talk, we agreed, we accepted a couple of transactions and we also accepted a couple of statements. Let's just go in a little bit in detail. The first topic I wanted to talk about is zero-three. In effect, with the zero-three, with the implementation of I2, with this brand agreement that it has reached with the municipalist entities and, therefore, with the assemblies of the whole country, there will be an implementation and a co-responsibility in this application, but above all the Generality will assume these resources so that families do not have to pay for the schooling of their children in I2. But it does not only assume this responsibility, but it will also assume, in relation to the progress of school and the day of September in school hours, the extracurriculars that are also to be carried out, must be done so that families can reconcile much better the work environment with the educational environment. This is an important element. It also has a clear presuppositional effect, and here there is a clear compromise on the part of this Government and this Councillor. But there's not only a compromise on this line. This councillor, on repeated occasions, has expressed the need to arrive at the six-per-cent of GDP, a six-per-cent that only new countries, according to an OECD report, are currently completing. Only new countries, according to an OECD report, complete with the six_per_cent. We're both a good country with all of you, and we're both a good country with all of you, because we're definitely going to get to that six-per-cent level. But, even if it isn't, the efforts continue to feel it and we continue to advance towards this horizon. The compromise is there and is maintained. The FP. FP is essential. The Members and Members who have had the opportunity to share with my committee space and also in this plenary know perfectly well. You know perfectly well. FP is essential for our country, it is the engine of change for our country, it is the most powerful lever of transformation we have in our country. Therefore, compromise absolutely with the FP. We'll find each other here, too. I, finally, Culture Academy. With the Academy of Culture, Esquerra Republicana has a compromise. It has a compromise to provide the solution; it has a compromise to solve the problem; it has a compromise, in effect, to respond to the demands that come from the educational community. Because the Torrassa bar lacks an offer of schooling, because the Torrassa bar lacks places, because we are fully aware of it. And, therefore, for the struggle against inequalities, in favor of fairness and in favour of the Hospital, without any doubt, there are the people of Esquerra Republicana, in defense, always, of the public school. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.136.0	Next, to fix his position has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.137.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, Members of Parliament, good afternoon, again. Paraphrasing the universal Catalan historian Jaume Vicens Vives, history is life in all its diverse complexity. We do not feel, therefore, bound by any aprioristic prevention of either method, nor of functioning, nor of speculation, nor of purpose. We try to capture the living reality of the past and, first of all, the interests and passions of the common man. Well, this basic axiom, which would have to be fundamental to any historian who was prized, especially with regard to eliminating all kinds of prejudices and stereotypes in decision-making, should also be taken into account when analyzing this motion presented to us in Comú Puem. So, since most of the points that you propose to us in this motion are demands of the VOX Parliamentary Group throughout the whole legislature, we will vote in favour, as it cannot otherwise be, overcoming any hastyness, any political prejudice. Can you say the same? Can you be able to overcome your ideological and political closure? In the light of this, it is not because all, each and every of the parliamentary initiatives that VOX has put forward in the field of education have been voted against systematically by you: on the neutrality of the educational inspection, on the request for the attendance of persons expert in school harassment to try to eradicate it, on our points of general policy debate to end the barracks and improve funding in education. Well, as I have already denounced in the previous speech, the list of grievances caused by the Department of Education, whose highest responsibility is Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray... I will only focus on commenting on four of the issues raised by you in your motion. You have bitterly complained, in the previous plenary sessions and in the committees as well, about the preparation of the curriculum of teachings, which Mr. Gonzàlez has done unilaterally, without the participation of the educational community, and about the announcement - you have also complained - of the progress of the school year by the Government without the consensus of the educational community. Especially, they have criticized the disappearance of the philosophy and destitution of the humanities, as well as the improvisation in the fit of the lleure staff in the school dining room and the extra-curricular activities in the advancement of the course to be produced. But, let's see, if you are partners of the government of Pedro Sánchez, who has approved the LOMLOE, that fulmina philosophy. [[Some applause.]] But if, moreover, you support the Government of the Generalitat, because you have approved your budgets, those budgets where six_per_cent of GDP in education is not envisaged. And yet you, in your point 2 of this motion, speak of it. What incoherence! Well, about the disobedience of the sentence of twenty-five percent of Spanish teaching in schools, which you also promote, well, then, you show that you also believe above the law and that you believe you are first-rate citizens. And, well, we're perhaps at the most important point because of the urgent urgency. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome and thank the presence here today in the Chamber of the families and representatives of the workers of the Cultural Academy, Hospitalet. Especially Sara, Beatriz, Francisco and all the other members of the Cultural Academy, welcome. [[Some applause.]] Academia Cultura is threatened with closure on account of Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray's failure to comply with the agreements reached on 14 May 2021 to incorporate it into the network of public centres. They have condemned the children who were studying in precarious conditions at the Cultural Academy, Hospitalet, to study in even worse conditions: in barracks. This is the model d'éxit d'écola Catalana of the Government, which sells us every two by three, and of which you, Lords of En Comú Puem, are necessary collaborators. Finally, to the whole educational community, teachers, families, PAS staff and students of the Cultural Academy, Hospitalet, we are with you, we will not abandon you. A lot of cheer. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.138.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.139.0	Well, thank you very much, President. I was surprised that when the deputy of Junts made her intervention talking about the Catalonia of yes, making all these references to yes, she did not retruce the Catalonia of no, keeping the other gang the commons, because she used to be a mantra: Junts, the yes, and the commons..., sorry, the CUP, the no. We've also introduced a young man. Obviously, we are in favour of the practically total points of the Junts motion. The vast majority of us would vote in favour of it, because precisely they defend the same aspects that we defend. We defend a public and quality school and, yes, also in català, an aspect that does not reverse the movement of common people. Still, we consider the school to be an elitist school. Why don't we forget that the concerted school, still more than seventy per cent of its public fund entries– and that means money that comes from our butxaques, from all, from all of this chamber and from all of the people of this society–..., are the choices that only a few can access, because the access quotas – another important aspect–, voluntary quotas that the concerted school announces– yes? –, are quotas that cannot allow the great majority of the population. Concerted schools have a minimum quota of two hundred euros in the large number of schools, but they can go up to more than five hundred, six hundred, seven hundred and up to eight hundred euros. Do you consider that quotas of this magnitude do not involve segregation for economic and social issues? Well, we, on the point of starting a real and effective dialogue with the educational community, obviously voting for it. The Member of the Left refers to our young man as opposed to the old man's, because our strength did not give to the dialect. So, as I'd say some of the companies on the right of this chamber, I'd like to see some advice that I don't have. Because precisely, the dialog is one of the demands of the educational community and it is the main problem for which we find ourselves in this situation today. The lack of dialogue and unilateral decisions of a councillor since then have led us to more than five days of vacation and to a monumental undertaking by the educational community. We consider that a one-course moratorium on the application of the curriculum is not enough, and we believe, as we have reflected on our young man, that it should be a minimum of three school courses to give time to all the cloisters, to all the centers and to the whole educational community to be able to apply these changes effectively, because the student is not converted another time into guilds of Indians with what we try and do our experiments. As for the FP, obviously, we are totally in favour and we agree on this aspect with the Member of Esquerra. We consider that it is a basic pillar of our society and it is an aspect of our education that for many years has been lacking, because there has always been the mantra of "what's worth going to battling and university, and what's not worth going to format cycles. And this is a mistake. It's a mistake we have to fight. And that's why, for this reason, we have to work to ensure a public and quality FP. And this means increasing the offer and ensuring the incorporation of the technical professorship between the secondary body. And finally, in reference to some of the items that you have accepted, such as the return of the debt that the Generality has with the assemblies, proposed by Ciutadans, we are also in favour because we consider it the Generality's responsibility to guarantee the gratuity of the training offer of the zero-three stage. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.140.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.141.0	Well, good afternoon. I'll start with a poem dedicated to Counsellor Gonzalez-Cambray. It's a poem by an asturà, Ángel González: "If we had enough strength to squeeze a piece of wood properly, / it would just stay in our hands / a little bit of dirt. / And if we had more strength still/ to press with all the hardness/ that earth, we would just stay/ in our hands a little water. / And if it were possible to still/ press the water, / we would no longer stay in our hands / nothing. Look, the problem we have is this: if we think we can change things without negotiation, without dialogue and without consensus, we're wrong. We will not change, we will install ourselves in the conflict. And this is our young lady's plot: to make it clear and clear that I need to talk, that I need to negotiate and that I need to agree. Without dialogue, without negotiation and without consensus, changes will not be possible. In the conflict with the teachers they call resources; not only resources, such as political will, they call commitments, but they can build the agreement at the negotiating table. If there is no agreement at the negotiating table, the agreement will not be possible. On the subject of the school calendar, which we can all hear has positive elements, they will only be positive if we build them from the consensus with the educational community. For this reason, we ask for a moratorium that allows consensus and agreement on the mechanisms necessary to make it effective and possible, to make it effective for boys and girls, for the conjunction of the education system. An imposition will not serve us as nothing; it will install us in discomfort and we will not get out of it. And, in any case, I'm glad to see that you've united in this chamber to address the conflict of the Academy of Culture. A conflict, sadly, that has brought a lot of tension to the families, a lot of concern to the families of the children. I like to see that each and every one of the groups has clearly positioned themselves in the will to solve it. Could have done more than two and three months ago. It's a shame that sometimes someone wants to squeeze water to stay in nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.142.0	So the debate is over, so I guess we're going to proceed, all the while, to the votes of the motions that we have tabled this late, which are points 21 to 23 of the order of the day. Start... [[Pause.]] I hope Mr. Fernández can make it. [[Rialles.]] I don't want him to take it wrong and... [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] [[Motion following the question to the Government on possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the entourage of the President of the Russian Federation (continuation)]] [[302-00124/13]] Now, we shall proceed to the vote of the motion following the question to the Government on the possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the circle of the President of the Russian Federation. We'll start by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 has not been approved with 57 votes in favour and 74 votes against. We're voting points 4 and 6. The vote begins. These points were not approved with 17 votes in favour, 81 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion have also not been approved with 50 votes in favour and 80 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into public school needs (continuation)]] [[302-00125/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the needs of the public school. Before voting for this young man, I am telling you that the Socialists and Units for Forward Parliamentary Group has withdrawn its slogan. So, we're voting point number one now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 116 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was not approved by 33 votes to 65, with 33 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 16 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 40 abstentions. We now vote on points 4, 5 and 6.1. The vote begins. These points were approved with 81 votes in favour and 50 votes against. We're voting now for the point six encapsulation. The vote begins. This point has not been approved with 49 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point 6.2 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 81 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 38 abstentions. We're voting point 6.3. The vote begins. This point was approved with 129 votes in favour and two abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.4. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 63 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting point 6.5. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 26 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 34 abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.6. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 64 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.7. The vote begins. This point was approved with 129 votes in favour and two abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 24 votes in favour, 67 votes against and 40 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of education (continuation)]] [[302-0126/13]] And finally, we vote for the second motion, following the question to the Government about the situation of education. And the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress has also withdrawn item number 2. Yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.143.0	Yeah, basically because at point 3 we had an emena ball removed, it wasn't removed. Finally, we, in Point 3, would like to make a statement in voice. On the other hand, it seems to me that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that we would accept, that is to withdraw the minimum word from point 3. And, therefore, we would ask you to get the point as it would be, which, if I did not go wrong, is: "Establish, as proposed by the School Council of Catalonia, a moratorium on a course of the new school calendar announced for the Department of Education. Therefore, we would accept the message, if I did not go wrong, which makes us in voice or moved at this time the Socialist Party and, therefore, we would eliminate the minimum word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.144.0	Okay. One moment. We ask for the reading, but it doesn't come out, it seems to us, doesn't it? [[Long break.]] The Socialist Group accepts the speech in voice? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, keep the emena. [[Long break.]] It's here. We've got it. He asks, therefore, the secretary who read what the point would be that we would finally vote for. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.145.0	Yes, Madam President, no, just to remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, because a statement is sent out in voice is to be made through the unanimity of the assembly of the forces of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.146.0	It's a deal that's now coming up in voice. It is a question of whether the parliamentary groups agree. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The congressman announced it when he made the presentation. Now the deputy spokesman asks that this deal... if it can be done before the vote. The statements in your voice can be made just before you vote. Ask the Ple if you can vote on this transaction. [[Long pause and remorse.]] Okay. Yes, Mr García, we will read the original text and you will vote with the original text. That's it, thank you. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.147.0	To clarify this point. He's got to admit first to bringing all the groups together for unanimity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.148.0	Yes, but it is. So it wasn't so, because there's a group that told me, the affected groups have already made the decision to maintain the puzzle. The secretaries will also read it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The original point 3 had removed the emena. They've removed the emena. Please read, secretaries, the original point as it stands, the one we will vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.149.0	I proceed to reading hoping that the text will follow... « Establish a minimum moratorium on a course of the new school calendar announced for the Department of Education with the aim of being able to carry out the necessary debate with the educational community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-07-2802.150.0	Okay. We shall proceed to the vote on this motion. Let's vote, first of all, points 1 and 9. The vote begins. These points were approved with 126 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved, after all the manoeuvres we have made: 57 votes in favour and 74 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 83 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 38 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're done, really. A little concentration and we're done. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 96 votes in favour and 35 votes against. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ai, 35 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 8 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 129 votes in favour and two abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 100 votes in favour and 31 abstentions. We're voting 11 a.m. now, letters to and b, and 11 ter. The vote begins. These points were approved with 66 votes in favour and 65 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 131 votes in favour. The session's up.
