ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.1.0	Good afternoon. The session begins. I begin by saying that the list of questions to be answered orally in full is included in the full file which they have at their disposal and that, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, a plenary session for which seven Members have delegated their vote will be held tomorrow at 9 a.m., as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] And, as you know, at the heart of every plem element of the gyra of dead and missing persons in the Mediterranean, according to official data of the International Organization of Migration, and there are now 850 people who have lost their lives this year. It's one way, the fact of doing it, of keeping our consciousness alert, even though it sometimes involves the risk of reducing this issue to a meager level of statistics. This weekend in Nador, Melilla's border crossing that separates the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco, the southern border of Spain, which today is the point with the most dead migrants in transit from the world, we saw some terrible images of amputated bodies, between dead and dying, surrounded by cops who looked at themselves without providing help to whom they might need. Drawings of dead, between twenty-five and forty people, according to some fonts, hundreds of wounds, due to an operation that, according to the president of the Spanish Government, was well resolved. Inhumanity, cruelty and indifference before human suffering can never be a good way to solve a situation, however complex this situation is. The events that occur and the images that remain, of a disparaging cruelty, protagonists for those who are supposed to be at the expense of decency, dignity and respect for people, are of extreme gravity and claim the rebreed and condemn it before the most absolute dehumanization. In case they deserve the grace and the recognition. Faced with this violation of human rights, some policies of death, such as an investigation to clarify the facts and the assumption of responsibility on the part of the political leaders of these actions that have led to the loss of human lives. Today, the United Nations has asked Spain and Morocco to take responsibility for this. And let the political leaders face one of the worst crises the world faces in the 21st century: the refugee crisis; a crisis that has only been a few weeks ago, the UNHCR warned us that it had exceeded the xifra of the 100_million people seeking refuge from the world. As a society, we cannot allow the people who want to get to our home fleeing the war and despair to not have the hope of making a better life and only to recompense an unworthy death. I invite you to undertake all the initiatives that can help combat a reality that depletes humanity. And this morning I proposed to the Bureau a minute of silence for the victims, which I invite them to continue. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] [[Asking the Government about the initiation of the 2022-2023 course in the public education service]] [[300-00191/13]] Then, to the sixth point of the order of the day, we ask the Government about the initiation of the 2022-2023 course in the public education service. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can and has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.2.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members of Parliament, from Comú We may have presented this inquiry because it is obvious that after many months the discomfort of the entire educational community in Catalonia continues to exist, the waves have not stopped, the mobilizations have not stopped, and the need for a clear horizon as to education policies is absolutely urgent in order to be able to plan and start a new course that does not follow what we have found. In fact, throughout this course we have reminded you, Mr. Counsellor, that the educational community of our country is very exhausted, basically because of the impact of the pandemic, for all the over-exercise that you have had to make teachers and staff of the education system, and, more importantly, this is making it worse now in these moments of crisis stem from the war in Ukraine, inflation and all the social unrest that has also accumulated. We have told you many times that the education system does need changes and transformations, and we share it, but whenever these changes, that these transformations are the hand of the educational community, which is who must apply them. And that is why I should take care of her, that I should take her into account; but not just words, but facts. And, therefore, this means reversing the trimmings that they are pouring, recovering the lost rights now long ago and that, unlike other autonomous communities, here they have not yet recovered. In fact, the success of the different waves and mobilizations in the country show that this discomfort exists, and the announcement of new mobilizations for the course are a bad wish to indicate what is the climate and the situation we have in these moments in the world of education. We have also told him several times that we think he needs self-criticism on the part of his department, for shapes, times and contents. But we also told him that at this time the problem is no longer just his advice, it is no longer just the Education Department, but that it is a problem for the entire Junts and Esquerra Republican Government, that it seems to be that he ignores or wants to ignore an obvious cry that above the vast majority of the educational community, and that it has to be solved, from our point of view, with a global view of the country, demonstrating that education is a priority, beyond words and speeches. Because the truth is that, at this hour, the government of Junts and Esquerra, or Esquerra and Junts, has not yet come to agreement with the teaching unions, with all the unions that in a unitary way are Protestant long ago to offer a way out to all this crisis that as the most days pass, the greater is being done, and if it is not resolved it will continue to be a reality in September, at the beginning of the new school year. Therefore, it is a great social agreement, as all unions and the educational community are already asking for. This is why we ask you to push for a change or a presuppositional enlargement at the government level, because all the best jobs that teachers and teachers need are taken into account, especially, as you know, the reduction of this school hour, both in primary and secondary, for the coming course; a measure that benefits teachers, but above all it benefits the quality of our education system, because it allows us to have more dedication to the students, and it allows us to have more teaching for the education system, which needs an obvious effort. Secondly, we have another element that we want to put on the table, referring to the new school calendar. We also asked him to appear with respect when the majority of the citizens of this country were aware of the change through a press wheel that made no question, without any agreement, obviously with the educational community, where, of course, he was accompanied by the President of the Generality, who seemed to have disappeared after that, when all the protests of the educational community had gone wrong. From In Comú We may think that a change of this magnitude is to be done well, and, in this sense, we ask you again to push a moratorium on the coming course, because the presses are not good, and less – and less – in the conflict situation that the educational community is in these moments. But you, far from doing this, put more of it into the fire, and just yesterday you're taking some propaganda videos about the school calendar with an exaggerated epic, as if advancing the school course was the world panacea, if I may express it, and solving all the evils. This is when the School Council of Catalonia also asked for the moratorium, a council formed for an ample and plural representation of the entire educational community. And, in fact, here we ask ourselves what this Government of the Generality is doing, which bets on winter games to the Pyrenees before making a consultation, or that, in this case, it also does not take into account the School Council of Catalonia, which is an organ representing the educational community of our country, "Republican values, so to speak. Moreover, we also have recent examples that show that the moratorium is possible if there is a political will. Without going any further, the Barcelona Assembly applied it there where it has competitions – in the case, for example, of the Bressol schools – or in the Valencia Country, the Government of the Botanic has also made a few days back on the progress of the school calendar at the request of the Valencian educational community and, therefore, approved a moratorium in order to be able to prepare the changes well. Some changes that must also take into account the world of the lleure, that have already told him that there are no monitors and monitors to last him in term, thus guaranteeing the opening of the schools by the afternoons. How do you think you're gonna do it? Will you let some centers choose, in September, to make reduced reading times and other day-to-day, creating a double network? How will you finance it? I am saying, because this announced game of 12_million euros, extraordinary, has already been said to be insufficient and, therefore, it is no longer possible to respond to these 700,000 children and primary school students who would need all these extracurricular activities. In addition, you passed the responsibility to the direction of the centers to contract the different monitors, and many centers have contracted or offered work to the fooder monitors, many have accepted it, but this is not yet enough because most of the student ratios per monitor are different from those that are needed for late activities. So, how do you plan to fix it? Actually, don't you think it would be better to apply a moratorium and prepare the course well for the next year? Therefore, we ask him again to reconsider and, above all, also a concern that we want to put on this aspect is the doubts that generate us in relation to the differences between the public school and the concerted school, because we do not want them to generate more differences between the two models and we think that this hourly reform can end up conditioning families at the time of sorting educational centers. And, also, a third element that I want to put on paper in this first intervention refers to the pre-registration that at this time is coming to an end; in this case, a pre-registration that is also traumatic, problematic, for many families in the country, who see that they need to have a public square in their municipality or in their school area. And the proof of this is that they have proliferated a multitude of silver plataforms in many cities, such as L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Terrassa, Sabadell, Tortosa or Badalona, to cite just a few examples. And, in this sense, it is obvious that every time there is a stronger demand for public school, but in many cities the places offered are insufficient. We already know that, in global figures, public places are growing because of the demographic crisis and why they have remained, but we also know that in some of these places or cities there is not enough public offer and, therefore, we are also asking for solutions in these cases, creating new lines or making the treaties more flexible. But what we are asking is that this pre-registration is not converted, as we were giving it the other day, into a public bizum to the concert – so, bringing students from one place to another – when the demand there is and what we really need is that there are public offers for all the families asking for it. I finished this first intervention and, in any case, I will also ask you for other answers that we think are very important in view of the beginning of the coming course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.3.0	Then, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.4.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Jordan, well, so I'll answer with the same order as you went out raising the different themes for what you're doing to this course that's all just finished now, but above all for the coming course. There's been a course marked for the pandemic, and we don't have to forget that. It's one and a half times that we don't wear masks. We started the course with a mask, we ended it without a mask, but it was a marked course for the pandemic. There has also been an engineering course around the Catalan school model by the courts for which it does the Catalan. And there was a course where – you asked – from the Department of Education what we did precisely is what you said we didn't do, which is mark this clear horizon and agree all the changes with the educational community. And we're going to the party. Let's go to the fact that they're new to the coming class. What's new with the coming course, as can be the reduction..., we respond to historical requests from the educational community, such as the reduction of ratios: fewer students, fewer children and more children in class because they are better educated. We respond to the retail reversal, as is the conversion of thirds into mediums. We respond to a country policy expected also for many years and that is a novelty for the Catalan education system, which is free for schooling at the public schools of infantile 2, P-2. Let's give an answer – that I'll answer it later and link it to the subject of schooling – to families in the first option, eh? That it's like we're able to change our eyes so that the schools don't get segregated by inici. As we are able to make a balanced distribution of the alumni in publicly funded centers so that there are no iniciaries, at the entrance to the Child 3 system and first of ESO, the segregated schools. We respond to novelties, too, that are all good for the students, as are we curriculums in the education system, that we give transitoryity to deploy them. We give an answer – which you also said – to a measure that is good for the student..., and that recognizes it everyone, everyone says that advancing the course five days to the schools, three days to the Institute is a good measure for the student; it is a good measure for the student and it is a good measure, above all, for the student in a situation of vulnerability, that does not have the same family conditions to access couples and activities where an economic contribution is to be made. And, therefore, in a course where we have made clear is to mark the timing of how we want to move forward in education in the run-up to 2030, what we want and, therefore, what education we need to give in response to this world, what we have done is to make decisions; make decisions..., and we understand discomfort– we understand discomfort. We understand the discomfort, because we've come out of two years of pandemic, everyone's very tired, we've been going through bits and pieces for more than two years... And, therefore, we have 5,400 educational centers, 120,000 teachers and teachers, more than one million families and ruling is making decisions. We didn't come here to manage, and we understand it's inevitable that there's a part of the community that doesn't like everything we do, because that's always happened. If we don't go to the newsroom, that's what's always happened. Now we all agree that Catalonia's education law is a good law. So with Catalonia's law of education there were similar situations to what we are now living in. We were implanting the six-hour time at all public schools, which unfortunately lasted a little while. But when we implanted the six hour at all public schools, we experienced situations similar to those we now live in. Therefore, the changes do not please everyone, but what we must not lose sight of – and we must go to the fact – is: they are good measures for the students, they are measures that they do is to advance the quality and the transformation of the education system. And, therefore, the more resources there is in the education system, the better. Always. The more resources there are, the better. What we can't do is lose perspective. Education in Catalonia is not worse than it was years ago. On the contrary, it's better. There's a lot more resources. We have the highest assumption of history. Do we want more? And as long as it is. As the Education Advisor it is clear that what I will tell you, Congressman Jordan, is that where we can best invest resources is in education; I would just miss, I'm the Education Department Advisor. The more we're destined for, the better. But we can't lose sight of it. Education is much better now, with the highest assumption of the two-year history, which is three years ago. But it's also true that we're getting out of a pandemic where there's a lot of fatigue. And it's also true that, coming out of a pandemic, we'd have to be coverts, even though there's some sound – even though there's some sound... Why, too, after what we can do is see this evolution too, huh? , this evolution, too, of wave calls: who follows him, who does not follow him... We can do whatever he wants, only there is a person who is not happy, we have to listen to him, but we have to have perspective– we have to have perspective. And, therefore, what is not worth giving an answer to the challenge that the education system has at present. And let us be told: « Do it all at once, do it in advance. And that's what's happening, Congressman Jordan. What we have done is to schedule all, all the complaints made to us by the workers' representatives – all; we have calendared them all. For the most part, we give you an answer in the 2022-23 course, and the rest are scheduled. And, therefore, we revert the details, all of them, during the legislature. And, therefore, we want an agreement. We have made up to seven agreed proposals and we have found ourselves, sadly – and I know very hard to say – that since the month of fever the representatives of the workers have left us the empty chair. The representatives of the workers since the month of fever have not presented themselves at the union table. And what do they tell us? « It's a long time ago. Miri, I'll give you an example of what you gave of the reduction of the lesson. We're on board, and we're done. And we put them on the table to the unions, with different proposals, to reverse the coming course, 2022-23, teaching time to the schools, and 23-24, to the institutes. And they told us no, because they want it all now. Still can't do it. The assumptions are what they are and the economic conditions, obviously, they are also what they are. You said it was self-criticism. All the self-criticism you want – all the self-criticism you want. If I don't have a problem with self-criticism, things can always get better. And as long as I did, I'd just miss it! We can all do better. Someone who is dedicated to education has to admit that things can always be done today a little better than yesterday. Someone who is dedicated to education has to admit that the reptes are not finished, that, in reptes, we will always have. We always have to have this will, a vocation to learn. No one needs to be taught; therefore, all the self-criticism you say. Now, let's take a look at the facts. They will not find you – and in any case, the place you say to the reply – no action of the Education Department where there has been no dialog. You say the calendar. The calendar: we make a decision with four reports from the school board and then talk to everyone about how to deploy it. A decision that, I said, is good for alumni, a hundred_per_cent family reconciliation and does not affect work rights. What we've done is we've talked for months with the bosses of the leureus, with the headlines of the public centers, of the concerted centers, with the joints, with the joint committee, with the federation tables, with the AMPAs, with the board of directors... We've talked to everyone, these months. All educational centres have the information pinned to the portal of centres since May 19. They have all the information on how to deploy..., with all the ideas we've had, which is the best model to deploy the September afternoons and to deploy the course advancement. A few afternoons of September that will have the monitors attached in the afternoons, because it is continuity of education in the reading and continuity of the monitors that are currently serving at midday time. And so, what we're doing is going on, going on with these monitors that will educate in the classroom, that are already in the schools, and do education programs in the afternoon, one hour late. Then there is another theme for the progress of the course, which is also important. So, in politics, it's very important to do what you say you're going to do. What we said we would do is, before a first time, before a first year of course advancement, we would create the conditions for giving all the guarantees that this course advancement is done the best possible way. And, therefore, what we have done for the first time in history is to advance the names of the structural seedlings of educational centres, schools and institutes, one_me. Until now we had them at the end of July and, today, we already have all the structural seedlings of the educational centres. Therefore, we advanced a_me to this name and this had never happened. Therefore, what we do is we do what we say we do, that we create conditions so that we give all the guarantees, so that the progress of course can be a success and can be done with all the best possible conditions. We don't give any responsibility to directions I don't have. In the functions of the addresses there is to sign contracts when they get out, and what we do precisely is to accompany the addresses so that they can make these contracts and accompany them in all the necessary management. The rates will be the adients, and in any case the differences between public and concerted. There will be the same proportion of teaching hours, as there were so far, in public and in concert for what it does to the progress of the course. And then – I'm running out of time, but in any case, I'll give him a break and then I'll expand the information – what we've done is..., all the while having fewer students on the system entrance, what we've done is increase the public school offer to the country's educational centers. And, therefore, we have increased..., to the initial offer, for the first time increase the public offer, reduce the concertation, to give response to this reduction of rates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.5.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.6.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... look, counselor, the truth is, when he was listening to me, he remembered me a little bit on the day of the marmot, huh? In the sense that you repeat a few mantras and don't take into account everything we're saying. Because you're talking about having perspective, but for our group having perspective, it means making changes, transforming the hands of teachers and teachers, and not against them, as is clearly demonstrated during these months. You say that there was no lack of dialogue and I remind you that the School Council of Catalonia asked for a moratorium that was voted and therefore there was no dialogue. Or that the world of the lleure in commission here in Parliament said that they didn't make it clear whether it was possible to push all this change forward because it had not been warned in time or done well. So, I'm going back to complaining, as the Valencian country did, without going any further, this moratoria so that we can prepare things well. And then, on the subject of public places, the splendour that you have told me now. Again, we know that in general terms there are more places or more public offers. And, plus, that's also determined because it lowered the demographics. What we are telling you is that there are concrete cities where there is not enough public offer. And that's where this problem needs to be solved, because it can't be that that happens and, besides, we're talking about big cities. Other elements that we also wanted to place before the beginning of the course..., is another that refers to access to extracurricular activities, but not during the days of progress of the school year, but throughout the course, throughout the year. Of course, out-of-schools are very important in complementing education, generating social cohesion and helping to develop children and young people. And, in this sense, they're obviously not accessible to everyone. In Barcelona, for example, there are several studies that say that half the young people and children of the Catalan capital do not have access to these extra-school activities. And, precisely, obviously, this happens to the barrel where there's a lower income. The Barcelona Assembly, in this case, has announced an investment of 23_million euros for 2022 and 2023 to expand out-of-school activities and, also, to create a whole system of scholarships because many more families can tend them. I, in this sense, 24,000 infants and young women will benefit. The question is: you, as an education advisor, what do you plan to do to the rest of Catalonia? Do you also intend to extend, for example, this proposal from the country, which is being made in this case in Barcelona, or will we not work because in reality extra-curricular activities are still available for the conjunction of chits and chits and teenagers from all over Catalonia? Another element that we also wanted to pose, and that came out of the grid in these last weeks, followed what refers to the adaptation of the climate emergency. We must remember that various voices of the educational community have made an alert letter for the high temperatures for the heat wave, especially very harsh temperatures in territories like Lleida, Ebre or also Barcelona. And they didn't feel accompanied by the department, they didn't feel that they were giving the answer. And, like many, it was said that they could not leave different centers because vulnerable families would still have more problems in the street or in their homes. We think that what it is to plan also in everything that it does to the adaptation of educational centres to heat waves, that each time they will be more frequent and stronger. And in the last minute I have left, the topic of seedlings. Not whether they have advanced or not, but for all the complaints that come to you from the different unions, we talk about abuses, about discrimination in relation to all the contracts that you have left in the hands of the addresses and that the figures say that today only the disset_per_cent of the places offered are occupied through contests, and all the others are named by the addresses. We also think that this is worrying, because there are many examples of people, of teachers who have not been hired for situations like being embarrassed or having some illnesses. Do you plan to do anything to respond to this situation? In short, there are many challenges to education in our country, there are many mistakes and improvisations that have only been committed in a few years, there are also the few who have faced the teachers. What we expect is a radical change in its way of doing and, above all, that the Government, that the whole Government listens to the educational community that clearly demands a respect, a dignity and an attention that at these times does not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.7.0	And then there's the word the Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.8.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Jordan, I connect a little bit with what I've been left with to answer and then with some of the fears you raised. For what he does to pre-enrolment. For what you do to pre-registration, we find ourselves with... You said: "The sound of every year, of many families that do not enter... We find ourselves with situations with similar figures and this happens every year. Here there is a balance between the offer, the demand and the fight against segregation. And, therefore, the numbers of families entering the first option are very similar to the numbers we have in course. This year, moreover, this proportion of first option, which is maintained, then, when you add up the other options in different..., in whatever request the family has made, there are already percentages of everything equal to other years, that go to the north-set_per_cent. It is true that every year there are some families that do not enter their first option or that do not enter any requested option; among other reasons, because the majority have not requested a list of centres and have only made an option. This year, plus – and here, if I may, we have to put this in value – what we have done is, also, as in the past, make this student detection in a vulnerable situation – and here a thanks to the assemblies, because that's what we've done with the hands of the assemblies. Once we get this student detection in a vulnerable situation, we make a reserve of seats and then we make a balanced distribution. Therefore, it fights against segregation from the first moment to the entry of the system. All the families that have asked for only public school tend to place in public school. And some of these situations that you were considering – Badalona, L'Hospitalet – are in the lives of solving practically all the cases. In some groups we increase, in others we increase rates and in others what we do is give an education response in the educational area in public schools, in the event that only public schools are required. So, as I said, we're increasing the public school offer, not just at the beginning of the pre-registration process, but now, we've already detected what pre-registration is, at the time of making the final offer. You referred to extracurricular activities. What I'm saying is that we guarantee..., like the education department, like the government, what we do is guarantee, before a course advance, full free access to the activities in the classroom so that families have the same hours and the same hour of entry and the same time of exit during the month of September as the rest of the school year. The subject of extracurricular policies is a subject that we have, like the education department, many years ago on the table. He'll always find us on the side of ensuring fairness and follow-up to everyone, but we also have to see with what timing it can be done. And it's true – and you were commenting on some – there are actions from the municipalities – from the different municipalities, from the different municipalities, from the different assemblies, also through plans of surroundings – very positive in view of everyone having access to them with equal opportunity and equity. Bad reference to heat, huh? I wouldn't want to answer everything you've been up to. For what it does to heat, we agree, we agree on everything, we need to plan; we need to plan ahead of a climate change. The schools, the juny, already by heat motius, the theme, do not teach hour. Now, in September, before the course progresses in the afternoons too, there will be no lectual hours. Neither do we have any guarantee that this student is better off outside the school than inside. A lot of students at home, obviously, have no air conditioning and the streets are also very hot. We must not lose sight of conciliation. There are many joints that, above all, also at the schools, and from the department to the institutes, are taking measures against the climate change, applying good practices and, above all, also creating spaces of shadows. The activities that make up the last days of school, that have coincided with the heat, are not the same ones that are fan throughout the course. Normally they adapt, these activities; among other things, because the batsling no longer do class, form cycles..., professional training are not present either. And, therefore, to ESO they also benefit from adapting this. But he's sure he can act. We need to act, but we need to act from sustainability, we need to act from energy efficiency and, if I may, we need to act with a consistent plan and a strategic plan of renewable energy. You are referring now, at the end of your intervention, to how the plants are made at the educational centers. Here we have a decree of seedlings. We, like the education department... is a very well-valued plant decree for the directions and for the educational community. If there is any bad practice... I always say the same thing: yes, with a decree that is good for the educational centers to give response to the educational projects of each center, there is some bad practice, so we identify it, completely transparent, and we will act in concrete situations if there are any. And, therefore, what we will do is continue to move forward so as to respond to the needs, after the pandemic of an educational system that has no other option than to continue to transform, continue to improve and continue to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.9.0	Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government about the planning of the 2022-2023 school year, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units have presented to advance. [[Asking the Government about the planning of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[300-00193/13]] You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.10.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, it has already finished the school year – as at least, the student is no longer in the classroom – and I think we can say that it has been a very complicated course, marked, in large part, also for the management still of the covid-19, that for a few months it has impacted the schools very strongly, and we hope that this is the last course with covid, but above all for the lack of dialog – and we have to say so – for the improvisation, for the lack of planning, and, above all, for the inability to seek agreements and complicitys to bring forward the changes that they want to push. And when we have visited schools and institutes, especially these last days of course, added to the heat, to the lack of conditioning of most centers, we have to say that we have found teachers and directions, in equal parts, between cremated and unmotivated, and an environment of disaffection far beyond what education requires and that we are very concerned about: mass bureaucracy, unclear instructions, demand grow and little value, beyond good words. A climate of malaise that's years ago, counselor, that's not alive. And aside from the lack of resources, which is obvious and which I will talk about, from the Socialists Group and Units to Advance we think that there is a different, much more shared educational governance, a co-responsible leadership, if we want to reverse this situation and strengthen the education system and make the great leap in education that we need. But we want to remember a little how this course started. It began with a breakdown of resources to those centres of high and maximum complexity, which, after numerous protests, managed to compensate minimally with covid resources that would disappear the course itself. And in this sense, counselor, we want to ask you what will happen in these centers and, in fact, in all the centers where so far there have been educational support staff, such as social educators, TIS, who have done a very important job. We want to ask if the course will start with new details, with double details in the case of the centres of maximum complexity, and if there is anything, in the framework of their skills, to cover this historical deficit, because it has been reddening for many years, of educated staff. And, therefore, I am not going to say that he will ask the ministry, as we already know he has, when the ministry wants to remember that he has contributed more than 1,200_million euros in these two years in education. On the other hand, in inclusive school, I have to say that it's very tired to insist on it day in and day out so many years ago. We have heard you say that you want to reach an agreement with parliamentary groups, and we give you the opportunity to do so. So much good is done today, and our hand will be extended to facilitate and contribute to an agreement that supposes a better focus of the student with a specific need for educational support, to sum up and not to detail resources, precisely, of support that is planted eliminate, in general and in concrete, in some singular centers like Eladi Homs de Valls, to improve early detection– not only of NESE B, also of NESE A –, to provide an adequate teacher training, and for a course of scoc, especially at secondary and post-compulsory level, where it is included, educational opportunities are extraneous to certain student profiles. What inclusive is possible with 30-to-five rates in institutes? And also at school Bressol, where, attention, there is not a vet all of Catalonia funded by the Department of Education. Is that the compromise with inclusive with the school bressol? It's very difficult the situation, counselor. We have infants where the PAEs recommend retaining school in Bressol, because they know that when they vagrate to P3 they won't have a vetter. This is happening in Catalonia at these times. And, therefore, counselor, this is urgent, this you know, and we ask you what you propose for this own course, not the 23, the 24, for course 22-23. On the other hand, in professional training we still do not know the data respecting the assignment of places in the pre-registration process. We have to say that we are negatively surprised by the lack of transparency in this process. Today, therefore, we don't have any data – I hope you can give us some today – but we do know the situation of numerous vocational training centres, which culminated in the first pre-registration process and already have 100_per_cent of seats covered. And what does that mean? So I mean, unfortunately, so good we're wrong, we'll get back to being young and not so young that they'll be out of the mid-level, upper-level public offer. Girls and girls came from batting, that last year they could no longer access these format cycles, that they ended up doing the option of continuity as possible, that it was batting, or other from adult schools, that you have put in the second process, that after a lot of effort it will be done to say they don't like it. And, obviously, also workers, who need a much higher qualification beyond the certificates of professionalism. We would be loving to have the data, but if we want to improve, we need to set up a single pre-registration process accompanied by a much wider public offer with the necessary equipment. And he knows that seven thousand places is a xifra of all insufficient, and he just has to make a call to a couple of institutes to prove it. For what it does to the pre-registration of primary and secondary school, I will also start by sharing the objective of the pact against segregation for which it achieves a much more balanced distribution of the studentship between public and concerted educational centres. Now, guany, your department has been late, and the families have had to sort out without having the correct information, and, therefore, has returned to lack of transparency, until families with infants NESE B that would have reserved place – that they had, in fact, not know that they had it; that other families have sorted centers that after the final reservation, therefore, did not have any vacancy. And that counselor, then, can't happen again. And I ask him if he is raising, therefore, increases in rates, in line; some other exceptional measure in those areas where more problems have occurred before this situation that has arisen; if he will assure all Germans of schooling in the same centre, because it is not the information that we have, and if he will allow schooling, therefore, where there are vacancies, he will complete the enrolment process in certain surroundings. And they also ask him, in the exceptional case of the Mary Ward Center in Barcelona, where the title decided to close the proper course – and so on, the pre-registration process has ended. And, therefore, here we have to say that we need new legislation that prevents this impunity and lacks responsibility for certain educational centres, which goes to the detriment of the students, their families. And so, we've known a lot of cases in the past few years, and we think that here, so, we have to do something. With regard to the Bressol school, good news is that the proper course will start with the free I2 school, but you know – and that, therefore, may not have been said enough – that it will be thanks, above all, to the contribution of the joints, which have kept this essential public service only for the last few years, and especially those that have applied the most social fees, and that they will again cover and make possible this mainly free. We must regret, however, the government's lack of commitment to universalization. We understand that if there is no increase in the public offer – and good news is that it has increased demand – gratuity will not be possible for everyone. And, therefore, we would like to know, in this sense, how many new public places are to be created in the proper course, and, above all, we would like to know it in the most complex environment; if you know how many families will be excluded from this gratuity due to lack of public offer, and if you plan to continue advancing in the gratuity of levels prior to I2, or what concrete compromise the Government has for doing to universalization for the next two years. And, as far as English is concerned, we cannot really hear the inaction of your government. We are familiar with the plans they have to encourage català to university, and, in change, they do not plant re to increase the levels of knowledge of a third language between the students of compulsory education. We're in the 21st century. Without English, we can hardly expect to access direct streams, specialise in certain scientific, technological, study or work in alienation. But in change, this government is focused on doing more Catalan classes at the university. And, please, we ask you to once and for all to focus and put the piles in compulsory education, to hire more professional specialists to make unfoldings, a plan to strengthen the initial and continuous formation of the teacher, more places to the official schools of languages, more help to access the learning of languages. We don't understand who this country is so small that they fly and we can't afford to lose another course again. And finally, we ask you, your Government, the Honourable President, that there is no urgent solution to the social conflict. It's been a while, as I said, that you don't see a situation of disaffection like today at the educational center and, unfortunately, by September we won't start well. How can you still not know what's going to happen in the afternoons? We'd like to... if you can confirm if there's any monitors for all the centers. Which student will use or not this hour of reading? How will the ration be calculated? What activities do you like? Because I think you know, surrogately, that the cost they'll pay doesn't donate to pay extracurriculars. I invite him to rectify. You did well to accept the one-year moratorium proposed by the Catalan School Council, to have planned it well for the next course, and it seems to me that you can say that you cannot guarantee fairness and quality at this beginning of the course. But he was talking about finding a solution to the conflict. This has got to keep the school in peace or not, and it's got the education system on fire. The choices are hurt and you can't repeat a course like it's finished. And I'm afraid if the government isn't soft, that, then, will be very difficult to reverse. He knows that if his government moves a change of credition, in the sense that the company of the commons also proposed, to strengthen education will have the support of my group. We already told him to approve the premise, that it was all insufficient and we were not mistaken, and here's the proof. And so, in the end, we want to tell you that we are at your disposal, that if there is a political will to reverse the situation and improve education, then you can have it. And in any case, I'll come back and comment on other questions that aren't resolved and that we're also very concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.11.0	Then, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Niubó, well, we agree with what you were up to at first, just to start, which was a complicated course. It's been a very complicated course. It was a marked course, especially for the pandemic. We'll give it to you before, huh? I didn't explain it before, but it's been one and a half months, two months, that we don't wear masks, but we can't forget that in the month of generation we had a very important impact on the educational centers that generated a lot of fatigue, a lot of frustration. From the Department of Education what we did is change the criteria and give answer to all the short-term replacements. We made appointments every day, and because an idea was made, in three weeks we made ten thousand replacements, which are more replacements than we do in a whole school year. And thanks to this, and thanks to the involvement of our masters and directions, we were able to continue having, that month of generation – this month of generation passed, four days ago – the open and secure schools. What I can't agree with is what you said, right? , which was also a course marked for lack of dialog. I go back to saying it, I go back to repeating it, I said it before: there are no other examples that there is no dialog. What we've done... in the band of the progress of the school year, where there's been no lack of dialogue. What we've done is make a decision, with four reports from the Catalan School Board that tell us: "Every counselor who has arrived has found himself four reports from the Catalan School Board," said: "Please, counselor, advance the course. There are unions in the school board. There were four reports of the last two years of the school board, which said: "Please, advance the course, which is good for the student, and above all it is good for the student in a situation of vulnerability. And so what we're doing is making a decision that's good for the student, and then talking to everyone – before I refer, I won't repeat, about all the conversations we've had with everyone – so that we can deploy it as best we can. And we'll deploy it with all the guarantees. We will deploy with education monitors in the classroom, relying on projects and the professionalism of education monitors in the classroom, as they are doing at midday time coverage. And so... The centers now have a coverage of education monitors at midday time, and what we're going to do is extend this coverage, with all the economic skills you need, in the afternoons, so that families have 100_percent of this family reconciliation and this reconciliation of "I leave my children at the same time and back them back at the same time as the rest of the school year and are focused on education and educational activity. We share... the theme of tiredness and discouragement, listen, I agree, but we're all very tired, not just the education sector. We're all very tired of the pandemic. And what we can't do is, in a year, pretend to answer the deficits or the details of the last two years, and do it all at once. We can't expect that. You mentioned the topic of shared leadership. We're on board. It's how the Department of Education is acting from the beginning of the legislature. You said: "He started the course with a detail, in centres of complexity, of resources. I think you know that's not true. What we did is an update, which is the same thing that we did this year, of which are the centers, as we update the data from the centers so that they are complex or not. I've said it all the time, I don't like labels. We have to make sure that the centres are neither complex nor uncomplex, but that they are attuned to the resources they need to attend to the best possible student they have. And what we did is we distributed these resources to complexity centers, increasing their resources. Some went further and the others decreased, but the overall cost is: let's increase resources. What we can't expect – and you also make reference – is that resources that aren't structural, because one year is coming to the education center, the next year is to be consolidated to the cent_per_cent without being able to make this redistribution balanced, and if we don't, it's detailed in that education center. You can't pretend that. And it is the approach I have made to different parliamentary groups in other aspects of growth, such as vocational training. You said: "We hope that the coming course is keeping the additional covid reinforcements. Listen to me, I hope so too, but I've been asking the minister for a while, and I've been writing to the minister, and I've been asking the minister for a long time. If we have resources that come to us from the ministry two years later and the next year these resources tell us that they may not arrive, which makes the details is the ministry. What you're saying to me is: "Whether we keep the social integration techniques or the social education of the resources that two years later come from an extraordinary source of the ministry or which makes details is the Generality. That is not to be heard, Mrs Niubó – it is not to be heard. Who will detail the Catalan education system will be the ministry if I don't keep the covid funds. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] And that's understood; it's that it's very easy. And I know it's hard to say it that way, but it's very easy. What we do is go beyond all the resources that the Department of Education is putting into education and that the government is putting into education. You were talking about inclusive school. For what he does to inclusive school, I know we share his gaze. I therefore propose to the different parliamentary groups to make an agreement for inclusive school. Because if we keep giving the answer... that's what happens to us in a lot of areas. And this is a matter of what, when we change, when we make decisions, that maybe they don't like everyone, what we do is rule. And if we don't make different decisions than we're taking until now, we won't solve the problems. There are political practices that do not recognize problems and therefore do not resolve them. And that, with this counselor, they won't find it; while I'm counseling, I'll recognize the problems, I'll recognize everything that's best, then act. And that's what we have to do with inclusive school. As we continue to act the same way that we are acting with inclusive school, we can look at another band, but we won't have inclusive school. Because for me inclusive school is that everyone who is in the Catalan education system has all the resources needed to be in an ordinary classroom. And so this is going to be different from what we're doing now; not only because we're not doing so well until now, but also because, while we have an economic game, that with that economic game we have to make a distribution of resources..., and always – and this is good news – detection is increasing and, therefore, we have more needs in the Catalan education system; that's good news. While we've got a good deal of money and we've got to hand it over, it won't come up long enough for us to increase these games. And that's what happens every year. We have 160,000 students enrolled in inclusive school, we double the premise of the memory of the inclusive school decree, because many..., to me I think: "No, no, it is not that we apply the inclusive school decree. If we double the assumption of economic memory! But that's not enough. Therefore, here we will find ourselves with an open game so as to serve the inclusive high school student. Make reference to professional training. We talked about it, didn't we? We've talked about it on different occasions. I know it's a subject that you're very much on, and I appreciate it. But you can't tell me there's a lack of transparency. There is no lack of transparency. What has happened so far is that there are pre-registrations; with these pre-registrations, we need to see how the registration was completed. And, therefore, with these data, depending on how these pre-registrations are registered, what we do is make decisions, whether we increase or not increase the offer. Therefore, today we cannot say that there will not be enough offer of vocational training when what we have done is increase, for the coming course, more offer of vocational training than the last five years together. And, besides, we've done another thing, which is to ensure that the fourth-grade ESO student is guaranteed the place in the middle-grade format cycle that you've been oriented to, in the middle-grade format cycle family that you've been oriented to. So, in professional training, what happens to us every year – and that's so, because it happens every year – is that a lot of people do the pre-registration and then, after that, have place in the pre-registration that they asked for, is not registered. The past year was 7,700 young– 4,000 to middle-grade format cycles, and 3,700 to higher-grade format cycles– who, having been assigned to the middle-grade format cycle or to the higher-grade format cycle, were not enrolled, or because they were beaten– to middle-grade format cycle – or because they went to university– to higher-grade format cycle – or because they were not continuous and came from the labour market and ended up working; therefore, for different situations. Therefore, with absolute transparency, what we will do is share the data when these data adjust to what they really need and is happening with our young people. You're also referring to..., to see... Ah, yes, to..., to the places of special educational needs. Yeah, yeah, I agree, huh? All the information has to be from the beginning. It's the first year we're applying it, and so there's room for improvement. There have been some reservations of places after the pre-registration process and, therefore, what we are doing now is to compensate, so as not to create any injustice to the family that had made that request with the different information at the beginning of what you have now. I explain myself better: what we've done is react, as it couldn't be in any other way, and we've increased groups, we've increased rates, and all these families of these concrete situations of the different populations we've been commenting on, so they'll find themselves with pleasure. And then we also make sure – and this too I say – that the Germans like the school that they attend..., access to the education system, to Infantile 3 and first of ESO, they like the Germans, guaranteed, where their family members are attending. And I ran out of time. Then I'll answer to some other thing that you planted for me. I'm sorry you didn't give me time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.13.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Esther Niubó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.14.0	Many thanks, counselor, for the answers. Miri, starting with the dialog: there was a lack of dialog; but if he likes it better, he was not complicit in pushing for change. You take advantage of reports from the school board that asked you to advance the calendar, but I also took the most current report that asked you to apply this moratorium and, therefore, give yourself one more year to plan better. It seems to me that there are still unanswered questions. You were talking about the details, supposed details of the ministry. Listen, if the ministry, if the Government of Spain has donated 1,200 euros in the last two years in various programs. [[Greetings.]] If there is no covid, he knows that this is a restriction of the European Union. It's over, there's an exceptional situation, it's Chapter 1, it's its exclusive competence. Listen, what management capability does it exhibit? It's been many years since we've seen this lack of education support staff and education staff in general. And about the high and most complex centers, we want to know, concretely, if they are to recover the resources of the past year – prior to retailing or what you want – or if they are to be found with those they have now with the rest of the educational support staff that was given with reinforcements. It seems to me that it is a very important issue to know, because it will harm the students of those centers. About inclusive school; we don't know what else to do anymore. You were talking about an open game now; shall we see your own course? Shall we see? Because then, if we see it, we'll celebrate it and raise it. But we can't keep the words, especially when a government. And we wanted to ask him, concretely, what he proposed to secondary school and post-compulsory school; with such high rates, inclusiveness is impossible there. And the bressol – you didn't tell me. It's not a big deal, is it? , from the inclusiveness of the bressol schools; the head vetter from Catalonia is financed by its department. So, if you believe so much in this important stage, I guess you'll be dealing with this question. In professional training... you in your data, we don't. But you just have to call a few vocational training institutes and tell them what the situation is: that, after the first pre-registration process, they are at cent_per_cent, and..., tricks to friends directors: "Please, put me a group... Well, that's reality. And, as I said, secondary education is still a very important issue. About the summer formation, which we have not asked for, we wanted to ask you what data you have of the summer formation offer between the teachers; if there has been a davalada, as we say, of this offer and also a davalada of the demand for training. And we also wanted to ask him, bearing in mind that in September he would have to start the deployment of new educational curricula, if the directions, the teacher, if he was doing a training or..., because it would be very necessary. For what he does to school buildings, there is also a very important deficit here, especially at the Institutes. We have a lot of young people serving spaces with labs, groceries..., a long time ago; students in barracks that have become structural. And you've had your responsibility for a few years, but your party, the government that you represent... after many years of disinvestment. At the very least, counselor, you committed yourself in the present circumstances to making forty-four schools and institutes. They tell us they'll finally be two. But in any case, tell them that the execution of this game is in the fifteen_per_cent; in fact, the two_per_cent, if one looks at the payment obligations. The truth is that it's hard to think how the common people can defend an agreement of assumptions that was never enough that it wasn't even complete. Or, if not, what can I say about the Instituto Escola Mestre Andreu de Sant Joan de les Abadesses? Is it going to start, the work? Are we on the school building emergency plan at Llobregat Hospital? The new school in Santa Coloma? We don't know what's worse, if a government that doesn't have a word, has no support, doesn't run, doesn't plan correctly. And this is added to the lack of vision to take advantage of the recuperation funds precisely to improve this conditioning of the educational centers, their energy efficiency. We have more extreme temperatures every couple of times, the course progresses, the heat waves can be repeated, and we want to ask, so, if you have expected, even though I'm starting to plan it from the very course..., to improve the situation where they find students and directions. And, counselor, yesterday he was celebrating his first year of government – I don't know if he thinks there will be a_second, I don't know – but we have to regret the electoralist, not informative, of the institutional campaigns of his department. She's a disgrace. We would like to know how much these videos cost, when it is not so clear on the first day of class when it will be, what will happen in the afternoons, when there has not been this campaign to promote professional training before the pre-registration process. And, therefore, I do not know if we are aware of the alarm of the moment, of the wound that you leave at school, but you must hear that you cannot govern against the whole educational community, that your Croatian harms the quality of educational care. And that's why we ask you to think about it and correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.15.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, the education counselor returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.16.0	Well, thank you. If I may, I connect with some of the answers I had not given him from his first turn, and then I go to the second. You were commenting on the subject of Mary Ward. We'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll match, we'll We need to have legislation so that private education centres can't shut down unilaterally in the middle of June. That's entrepreneurship, we can't tolerate it. At the moment we cannot do much, because the legislation does not allow us to do so, and therefore we must equip ourselves with this legislation that makes it impossible for these situations, that there are private ownership centres that in half of June, unilaterally, communicate to families that tank the educational offer. For what it does to infantile 2, I repeat again – we have commented on different occasions, but in any case, it is good to reexplain, whenever necessary, what is actually being done – what we do is free for the schooling of families to infantile 2. And, therefore, what we do is to ensure that all the country's assemblies – all of them – have public schools that invest fewer resources in the school that they invest so far. Why? Because what we do is cover what families bring to school during course 21-22, during the current course. And, therefore, in all cases families are contributing less than the Education Department and the Government of the country are covering in view of the coming course. And if there is any exceptional, timely situation that families are paying more for this course than they are paying for by the Department of Education the coming course, we have a commission created with an agreement with the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities to adjust and deal with that concrete case. You also proposed, for what you do to child 2, and I think it is an important issue that I have also shared with absolute transparency, as I always do, from the first moment..., which we do is free of family schooling, but we are already aware that we are not universal. Therefore, we take a first step, which is free from the schooling of families to children 2. Faced with universality, the assemblies can increase this public offer; in fact, there are European foundations to increase this public offer. And what we guarantee as government is that, for all the public places that they offer..., they re-finance and subsidize each square, from infantile 0, infantile 1, infantile 2, that we have recovered the year 2019 with the assumptions of the 20th, for the course 19-20, and, moreover, if it is childile 2, all the places that the assemblies offer re-establish these resources, also, of schooling. We agree on the subject of planning and actions on the subject of English, and we are working in this direction. And for what it does to the issue of the social conflict that you put on the table, I have already answered it before and I will always answer it: we want an agreement. Conflict... there's no conflict for us. Let them come, let them not leave the empty chair, let them sit down and talk, and we'll come to an agreement. We already proposed and responded to the reduction in school hours during the coming course, if we had an agreement. And we've been looking, the way you've been... we didn't even know how, but we've been looking for it. If we come to an agreement, we give an answer, and that's what we've always done. And, therefore, reduced the course from the class to the schools, and the 23-24, to the institutes. And they told us no, that they wanted it all now. And that meant for the course there were 1,400 more teachers in the education system. We know everything that's going to happen in the afternoons of September. You say, "You don't know. We'll keep the cost up. We know everything. We've got all the documents filed since May 19th. The educational centres are fully informed of how they should do it, what they should do. They're coming back for follow-up. And, therefore, we guarantee these education activities in the evenings of September. And I don't know if I'm leaving anything... The subject of works, I'm sure – the subject of works. Women more works than ever, we do more educational centers than ever, building, and that's objective – it's objective. We can explain to you all the works that have been done in the past, fifteen years in new centres or in large expansions of educational centres. We've done more than ever. And what we're doing now – as you do, the ones that run in different assemblies – is, depending on the price update as well, updating the calendar in view of the execution of these works; we would not stop doing not one. And we agree, too, with what you said... before he answered it to Congressman Jordan. We agree that we must be able, among all of us, together with the assemblies, with the hand of the assemblies, with the leadership of the department, to plan this climate change and the rise in temperatures. Therefore, as I always say, Mrs Niubó, thanks for the support on whether to increase resources in education. We have to find each other, we have to say things and then we have to make them happen, and, therefore, increase the education assumptions again every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.17.0	So let's move to the eighth point on the order of the day, asking the government about the balance of the 2021-2022 school year, which presented the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win. [[Asking the Government about the balance of school year 2021-2022]] [[300-00194/13]] And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, a whole lot more, we'll be back here. Now the school year has ended, but it must be remembered, Mr Councillor, that this course has been marked by four great catastrophes facing its harmful management, the taking of unpopular measures and decisions and to the detriment of the Catalan public school, without counting in absolute with the educational community. You are already considered by public opinion to be the worst counselor in history. It's the government's most valued advisor and the one we'd remember as the counselor who ended up with the public system and came education during and after the pandemic. And yes, Mr. Counselor, the educational community is in line with the teaching community, the unions democratically chosen because they represent us, the student and the families, not only the directions that are similar to you and the general directions, that are still closer to you. And, as I said at the beginning, a course marked by four catastrophes. That, if it's true that you're just the public face and the responsibilities are the department and the government you represent, I won't approach three, because the fourth will go to a point we'll talk to tomorrow. The first great catastrophe: the trench of the dialyg. We come from a course marked by the waves of the educational community, some waves that still today have not finished and are expected to continue during the month of September. A dialog that was already fragile previously between the department and the educational community. Also this break, marked for its lack of dialog and ability or intention to arrive at agreements. There have been various historical requests, not to which you refer, but to which the community refers, and they are the reversal of the detail, some detail that we have been pouring since the 2008 crisis, but also a feeling of discomfort that has been increasing week after week after week after their statements. The next catastrophe: the lack of reversal in the public system. A deficiency that spills over the education system and has remained clear with the lack of deployment or the inability to deploy the inclusive school decree, this lack of resources to all the educational centres to ensure this inclusive school, the lack of resources to the special education centres, which must also guarantee all the quality and cover all the needs of the student with specific support needs or specific educational support needs. The third great catastrophe: the privatization or liberalization of the public system. You have come or reduced public school seats in favor of the Concerted School, you have dismantled the public system with the reduction of ratios to P3, which has only been a reduction of ratios to the Public School, but which has remained in the Concerted School. A reduction of public places also to FP. Because, yes, this double network that you have consented to or favored FP, causing one part of the student to enroll in the month of April and another part of the student to enrol in the month of May, has caused a comparison between the student, a student who may already have been out of place in previous years, a student who also comes from adult schools, a student who also attends secondary education in adult schools and who should therefore have the same right guaranteed by this continuity of the stage of compulsory secondary education in the format cycle. And this continuity has not been guaranteed to that student from the adult schools. But also another example of this liberalisation of the public system: the decree of seedlings, a decree that you state is well rejected for directions and is a positive aspect for our system. So, no, it's not a good thing for our system, because this decree of plants does what it does is to give authority to directions to sort out the personnel that need to work in a public education system – in a public education system. It can't be that all administrations have to bid, go through public processes to get to work places, and, in a change, in a public school the class of teachers has to go to the end directions of the centers with the approval of the Department of Education. This liberalisation of the public system is one of the great catastrophes of this course. The fourth catastrophe, which I said I would address in the morning plenary, is the disastrous management of the conflict by imposing the twenty-i-five percent of the castle on the courts by order of the High Court of Justice. And now, before I get to the next part of my question, I'd like to refer to some of the statements that we could call myths true, that I will call falâcies, because a truth message continues to feel a lie, right? You fill your mouth and flag questions like reducing ration. The reduction of rates, which only ended at P3; the rest of the levels of the different educational stages the rates are kept intact. Secondary education has a ratio of thirty students per class. How can we apply inclusive education and how can we respond to the diversity of our students, with thirty students per classroom? You also talked about the calendar and how this improved the conditions for vulnerable students. Another fallacy, a true _mitja. Yes, it refers to the historical demand to advance the school year; but what change and what effect does it have on vulnerable families advance the school year three days? Three days, because the primary education students start on the 5th and the secondary school on the 7th, the only thing they do is they start three days before or five days before the usual, but that doesn't free the families of the inician of the September month. Summer couples, even municipal summer couples, those who provide the different joints, are divided by weeks or fortnights, and go from July to August, not September. Therefore, this change also means that families, during the first week of September, have to look for alternatives to read or educational for the students, because they will not start until the 7th. So, another true medium. As for the new curriculum, you refer to this new curriculum that has already reached the educational centers. Another true medium. Has the training been offered to the directions of the centers? Yeah. Have the new curricula arrived in all the faculty, which will have to start applying them from the first week of September? No, no, These résumés aren't there. Our parliamentary group has already made a request for documentation in order to be able to access these curricula that still no one, no teacher in this country has had access to. So, how can we apply a resume from September 5th if they don't have them at the educational centre and no teacher has access to them at the end of June? Another true medium that I continue to call a fallacy: the afternoons of September. You're talking about the fooder monitors or the lleure monitors. He referred to the fact that the afternoons of September will be covered with the fooder monitors that are currently part of the staff of the educational centres. Well, a lot of these or these food monitors don't have the title of reading monitors. And therefore, according to the law and the law in force, these professionals can't rely on the hours of reading, they're food monitors. And there aren't enough LED monitors to cover the September afternoons. But it is that, in addition, to do the most perverse thing, you have brought concrete instructions to the rural schools because you take refuge at this compact time and can continue the schedule you had until then and be able to continue your classes until late to get rid of those hours of leave, given that, at these rural schools and at these ZERs, there are not enough monitors to cover this demand. Well, in the band of the dual educational network that we have today, public and concerted, you want to make a double network between the public in which there will be, for one band, the urban public schools, and, for the other, the rural public schools with fewer resources, which do not have the compact schedule or the professional ones of late afternoons. And like I'll have five minutes more now, when I come back, I'll continue with the list of fallacies and true myths with which you fill your mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.19.0	So you have the word, to answer the question, the education counselor, Mr. Josep González-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.20.0	Okay. So thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Ndiaye, I'll see to it that you respond to what you were proposing. Anyway, I'll do some real data, huh? , of the indicators, not so much of the opinion, that is of you spoken of all the time. He talked about impressions, perceptions. I, in any case, will try to counter it with indicators, with which it is actually passing. You're referring to catastrophes. What I'm saying is that the Catalan education system looks at it like it looks at it, with the indicators, with the assumptions of the past few years, has more resources than it has ever had. And there can be no claim that the Catalan education system is worse now than five years ago, that it was two years ago, that it was years ago; on the contrary, we have more resources. We want more; the more we have, the better. And, therefore, we must respond to all educational challenges, one after the other. It was the theme of the dialog being broken. He didn't break a dialog. We've been to the education council, from the beginning, with more participation than ever. We took part in the proceedings with the résumé that had never been done. We passed questions to the faculty that had never been done. We have made formats of meetings, of meetings, of meetings, with directions, with teachers, that had never been done. So, you can repeat a phrase like mantra, type marketing, that says you, but it doesn't fit what you actually went through. All the will – I have also said from the first moment – to reverse all the details. Now well – and this until you all have to hear it –, you can't do it all now and you can't do it all day by day. If we submit written proposals – and we have not submitted until September – and these proposals do are to reverse the clippings in a time-bound manner, so what we are proposing is to reverse the clippings. Because all of us now, in a year, detail that comes from more than two years ago... can't be done. Finally – I insist, I return to say – from these proposals to reverse the details that we did at the end of May and that we have done again now, stop the last committee of the week, there was the reduction of the school hour to the schools with the incorporation of 1,400 more teachers into the education system. It costs a lot to believe, it costs a lot to explain, that it was not intended to arrive on the part of the workers' representatives to an agreement that involved incorporating 1,400 more teachers into the education system. It's very expensive. In fact, they haven't explained it to us, because they don't come to the jails of the trade union months to talk about it since the month of fever. I don't know what I was saying, huh? But you directly say lies – directly say lies. I think you're from misinformation, huh? At the moment, I think it's bad will – at the moment – but what you say lies is obvious, because you can't say that the public offer has been reduced. We've increased the public offer, and that's it, it's not interpretable. If you have fewer students and increase groups and increase seats, it's increasing the public offer. And so, that's what we've done, increase the public offer. You gave the subject of the comparative weighting of the student of vocational training. It is precisely the opposite: what we do is to give an answer to what the Catalonian Education Act of 2009 says, which places the Education Department in continuity, universality and continuity of the ESO's fourth-grade student because it is placed in medium-grade format cycles. And that's never happened before. And that's why we've changed the procedure, to ensure that the ESO's fourth-grade student has a place of continuity in the form cycles to which you've been oriented, in the professional family, in the professional realm to which you've been oriented. Obviously, we have a different look at what he does to the plant decree. The plant decree is where all the most advanced European educational systems advance – all of them. I haven't been to the presentation of the UNESCO report. And the UNESCO report will replace the WHO report many years ago and set up a whole series of reptiles of the education system, which is where we are going from Catalonia, on the subject of curricula and also on the subject, obviously, of the decree of plants, educational projects of centers that with all transparency... And I insist, because you say to us: "There are directions that they are not making a good application of the plant decree. So let's go look for that concrete case. Tell me where we're going and we'll get it, I'll just miss it. Everyone has to apply well all that is established and all the decrees, but what we can't do is to waive a decree that does strengthen the teams and educational projects of the centers, assuming that in some case, that we haven't proven, because I don't have the information of which center isn't acting well and is not responding to the plant decree, it hasn't done well. Therefore, identify it, please – and I have said it again – identify which specific situation we need to look for and in which we need to act in case it does not apply well. You still have to look, when it doesn't apply well – everything. I don't answer the issue of català, because you said I'd talk to you tomorrow. The theme of ration reduction. MP Ndiaye, it has to be very difficult to criticize a novelty and a measure of reducing the number of children in classrooms, historical demand for many years ago from the educational community and that for the first time in history we begin to move the coming course, reducing the rates to reach Infantile 3. It's got to be very hard, very hard. He recognized them. It must be very difficult to criticize a rate reduction measure. Obviously, it can't be done at all. It's just that even if we had the whole premise of the world world, we could do it all at once. We wouldn't have any space to expand groups at the educational centers. So, what we do is what I'm doing explaining to you all the time. Let's go to the parties, beyond the sound of some. Let's go to the parties, let's go to the indicators, let's go to what's going on. And what we're doing is, we want classes, classes with less children and children in class because they're better off. Let's start a path. Let's start down to Infantile 3. The year we came back to reduce to Infantile 3, and so we went up for nine years. In nine years the schools are rebalanced. During the legislature, if it is possible, I would also like to – but this depends on the presuppositional parties, but as Education Councillor I will go to look for it with all my energies – reduce the ratio to secondary education, to ESO. Also make reference to the progress of the course. What we do is what... somehow, here you did say what we do, right? What we do is family reconciliation to the cent_per_cent for five days at school and three days at school. That's right, we do this. Does this solve all the problems of family reconciliation? No, no, All the measures you take to the education system, if they're good for alumni, they're going to add up. And that's what we do, a measure that's good for the student. And, therefore, we go summarily and give him an answer. Then, for what he does to our resumes, all centers have our resumes. What happens is that the ministry approved the royal primary and secondary curriculum decrees on March 30th, approved the battling on April 5th, and from this approval..., and it couldn't be done before and, in fact, Catalonia is a few territories that left it itself. Therefore, all the centres have all the information, are doing all the necessary training and the curricula approved by decree are following their term as a function of this approval that since the ministry is active. As you know, we did a participatory process, which had never been done in Catalonia, in relation to the maximum curriculum. Maximum participation, maximum dialog, in the line of what I am telling you; up to 850 contributions. There had never been any participative process in Catalonia in relation to the curriculum, and no participative process of the curriculum had been carried out in other territories. The theme of the exception. I explain the theme of the exception, because you also explained it in a way that is not real. What we give... What I do as a counselor is about the request of special education centres, about the request of rural schools through their representatives, who tell me: « Education Councillor, given our uniqueness and our concrete situation for which he does in the afternoons of September, if each educational centre asks, from the educational centre, with the agreement of the cloister and with the agreement of the School Council, do it in another way, take it into account. And what I do, obviously, is: to the special education schools and the rural schools that I solicit – not all of them, just those that I solicit, for the singular reasons that follow – do it in another way, so we will appreciate it and we will take it into account. And that's what we did.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.21.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, counselor, you said that I was lying and that I would respond with data. I didn't feel it. He also spoke of information, he gave information that I can also call, as you have done, the fruit of information or misinformation. The fact that he has not passed through the classrooms or not in the classrooms may also produce this misinformation. Okay. As for the subject..., I go to... as I said before, I return to these true myths that you refer to. I repeat again: as for the FP theme, yes, it is intended to ensure this continuity of the secondary high school to FP, right? , vocational training. I repeat: there is a student in adult schools who attend compulsory secondary education, the title of the GESO. This student went to pre-enrolment in the second period, the month of May. Why, if they're doing the same title as the student who's in a secondary education center, aren't they included in the same enrollment period? Because they are doing the same educational stage they are seven years old or in twenty-five years old or in forty-five years old, they are bringing the compulsory secondary education degree, and, therefore, they would have to guarantee their continuity in the formative cycles of vocational training. I'll give him some data. You said that the assumptions have increased, that there has been more educational reversal. Well, it's been two years since the investment in the child education stage..., the cost of the square was 1,800_euros, the investment the department made was 1,800_euros; two years later, today, it's 1,600. You also refer, on the subject of the calendar and others, to the inequalities of the families, to ensure fairness, and that you can begin before as a feminist measure, integrating, etcetera. Well, with this new entrance to the curriculum, vulnerable families have to face a new challenge. What's going on? A new curriculum on the table opens the door to the schools – and, in fact, it is what has passed – to the change of books and school materials. Until now, the regulations established that it was not possible to change books for four years, to ensure that the whole process of the educational stage was completed and done. New resume, we're out. What's going on? Families and students at risk of social exclusion or in a situation of vulnerability are found to have to make a new investment in school materials by September thanks to this new curriculum. No, he didn't get to the teachers and the educational centers, so I'm going to repeat it again. He also made reference... well, another aspect that he had commented on earlier, the centres of high and maximum complexity. It cannot be that there are centres that bear the label and stigma of the department, because the centre of high and highest complexity is a label that puts the department and that only puts at those centres that have a high student index and families at risk of social exclusion, with a vulnerable socioeconomic context. So, depending on the number of students in these centers, they get this label. It can't be that the department holds this label and doesn't hold the resources associated with it, okay? So far..., this course, thanks to the extraordinary assumptions, etc., were integrated between these schools the TIS staff – the techniques of social integration – and the social educators, who know that this 31 August disappear. Therefore, we cannot maintain the label and stigma and make the resources associated with it disappear. And, finally, I wouldn't like to close without referring back to the benevolent decree of plants. I remind you that every teacher that's not going to work, that's interested, is part of a teaching bag. A teaching scholarship that orders the teacher based on the teaching experience, the years they carry teaching, the years they have entered the teaching scholarship. And this should be the distribution and access to the educational centers of all the teaching staff, he didn't say and depending on what each management team decides. And here's where we can't agree in any case, ever, when we're talking about the public system. It is not a private company where directors or directors address them. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] I can decide who's working there and who's not – I'm done, president – and with these new names it's clear that the vast majority of people in the bag have stayed out and have very low numbers. We are talking about people with a number two, with a number one hundred and twenty– of 120,000 people–, who have not stayed away; with a number two, one hundred and twenty, one hundred and fifty, two hundred and fifty, who have no place of work thanks to this decree of plants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.23.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, the education counselor returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.24.0	Thank you, President. MP Ndiaye, MPs, MPs... I don't like it, do I? , talk about me, but... a biographic point, because you said: "The fact that you didn't pass through the classrooms... I'm an institute teacher since '97. Since '97 I've been a professor of the public institute. I have gone through different management lines to different administrations, but from the year 2010 until the year 2015 I was making "institution professor at an institute in Barcelona". A biographic point. My parents are both masters, I come from a family of masters, and, therefore, I have lived the education from very young to home. Some specific themes to which you refer. I'm trying to answer it directly. He does the same thing that he had done with the issue of racquets. Since 2009, no one had been able to give an answer to the law of education in Catalonia, to give continuity to the fourth grade of ESO because you have placed it in the middle-grade format cycle. What you might have done is, "Thank you, counselor. Congratulations on the job, and put the emphasis on a specific situation of adult training centres that I have not just heard much, that they can't get in or they can get in or I don't know what. In any case, what we do, as we always do, is: we respond to a need for continuity of the ESO quarter-year student because it has a guaranteed place – I insist, this is a paradigm shift – to the middle-grade format cycles that you have been oriented to, and we will analyze all the processes of..., when you do one thing for the first time, if it is better. You refer to our résumés. I know you're in class, why do you always say that, huh? But normally she's not working with books in the classroom anymore. It's hard to buy... most schools don't work with books in classrooms. And, therefore, what we do with our curricula, basically and primarily, if I may, is to give coverage to the way they were already doing most of the schools in this country. Most of the schools in this country were already competitively educated. What was going on was that they didn't have the Education Department's coverage of aligning this education with our curriculum plans. And, therefore, what we do is start with the odd courses and align this meaningful and competitive learning with what many schools are already doing. And we do a second thing that's so important to me or more. The first is very important, which is to give coverage to the schools that are already doing it – and say schools, but also many institutes, eh? ; to a lesser extent the institutes than the schools, but also many institutes–, but the other thing we do, even more uplifting, is to place and accompany the rest to do this path. Not because they're doing it wrong so far, but because we're living in a changing world. We live in a changing world, and therefore education must also be able to adapt there. It doesn't serve what we did five years ago, it doesn't serve what we did two years ago. Not because we did it barely five years ago or two years ago, but because what we did before didn't work the same way now. And that's why we need to be able to accompany, and we're doing it with all the necessary training and we're doing it with all the necessary support, and we're doing it with all the necessary transition, too, because from the cloisters, we can carry out all the educational, pedagogical debates that we need to adapt for three years to these curricula. I insist, I say again: we first need approval of the royal decrees. From the royal decrees, we start the whole procedure of the decrees, but all the educational centers – all – have the definite erasers of the curricula that will apply the coming course. All educational centres have defined curriculum deletions, while the defined decree is being processed. Therefore, they have all the information they need, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, to prepare the coming course. I, then, agree, to end – a minute –..., it is also good to coincide as much as I like to coincide as much with you [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and we agree on the fact – because I had it back before, too, huh? –..................................................................................................................................................................... I do not like "complexity centres", "the greatest complexity... we must advance a system of education without labels, and that, even without labels, the distribution of resources adapts to the needs of the student. They don't serve the same resources for everyone. These resources must be adapted to the needs of each student and to the situation of each educational centre, and that the maximum number of decisions taken by the centres can also be taken from the educational centres. From the resources of the Department of Education, I confirm that we will not make any appeals or contributions to the complexities. And I'm running out of time. We'll keep talking about education. It was a pleasure. Three questions followed..., he's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.25.0	So, after these three questions, let's move on to the new item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the impulse of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. [[Interview with the Government on the impulse of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia]] [[300-00197/1]] She has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.26.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies... the audiovisual world has turned into a dizzying speed in the past few years, we have been talking about it on various occasions in this Faristol. We have moved from linear television from a few channels to a global audiovisual market and every time more atomized, where products in languages like Catalan must be able to find their space in a very strong competition. It is true that after practically a decade in which the audiovisual sector in our home had been an oblivion, the Government of the Generality, with the departments of Culture and Presidency in front, decided to make a firm bet to reinvigorate, the impulse that it needs, to all the talent that we have in our home and that is very, very much. In this sense, I would like to take advantage of this inquiry to highlight five points which I think reflect perfectly on this bet for the sector and which we believe is worth explaining, right? Many times they explain themselves, but maybe they don't just arrive, and it's worth it, so put them in order. First, we would like to highlight everything you have to do with economic aid from the Department of Culture. These 2021 aid went from EUR 17_million to more than EUR 25_million; therefore, we are talking about an increase of practically EUR 9_million in these aid to the audiovisual sector. Why are these figures so important? So why should they be used because films that are run in Catalan language can compete in equal conditions with the rest of films, with the rest of films that are on the market. Mirin, one of the questions that Gaudí has observed or that Gaudí's awards is not only to see how each time there are fewer films in Catalan and how we have found a retrograde in the name of films that are in our language, but also that the films that participate in the Catalan language do so with much lower assumptions than those that are in other languages. The xifra I think is remarkable: the medium assumption of the film shoots in Catalan language were 720,000_euros, while that of those that were shot in other languages, therefore, were 2 million euros. Therefore, it is obvious that these films do not compete in equal conditions. This, let's say, public finance deficit doesn't only affect widths, since it's also evident in serial production, right? Every time it's more common... audiovisual consumption habits have changed a lot, and they're not just consuming movies anymore, but there's also a lot of serial consumption among the younger audience. And, therefore, also the calibre, therefore, to increase the aid to this type of production. And in this sense, she will advise, for what she does to the economic support that these Catalan-language productions receive, both for what she does at length as in series, we would like to know what the Department of Culture's bet is to reverse this situation that we have been talking about and how it is concrete and how these resources and aids are distributed, right? , because there is, therefore, a way to distribute these aids with a very concrete purpose. That would be the first point. The second point that we would like to highlight is the arrival of funds by the State, in this case, in the marque of the sector that is known as 'bottom', where the sector is known as 'bottom', which we would then like to explain to us a little more in what it consists of, because actually the formula is hard to hear. It's a source that came to Catalonia in 2011 and that had been paralyzed since then; therefore, it had been zero. Certainly, in the framework of the negotiations of the general assumptions of the State – in this case, on behalf of Esquerra Republicana – you announced the other day that 7_million_i_mig euros will arrive for the audiovisual in catalá, a xifra that is not insignificant, and that in addition to the help we have previously given..., so they give this economic support to the audiovisual sector. With respect to this question, as I said, counsel, we would be pleased if you would give us a little more details on this quantity, as they value from the Government of the Generality. And also if you could explain to us a little how these aids work, which seems to me to be a total of 10 million euros and 7 and a half miles to Catalonia; if you could give us more details about this question. Therefore, economic aid, but it is obvious... As the third point would point out that, beyond these economic aid for the sector, it is also a strategy to work very well because all the Catalan language titles appear in the catalogues that are now the great audiovisual consumers – we are talking, therefore, about the great platforms. And here let me tell you there's a lot of work to do. A report by the Catalan Audiovisual Council stated that at the beginnings of this 2022, the offer of Catalan content to Netflix was almost void: only zero and mig percent of the titles were available in Catalan language. But we don't finish with Netflix, because HBO had only 0.1_per_cent of its catalate; Disney+ – thinking mostly in the youngest public –, 0.8_per_cent, and Amazon Prime Video, the 1.3_per_cent. We're talking very low numbers. And this has some hard effects on audiovisual consumption, and, consequently, on the social use of language – we have also not heard to talk repeatedly these days. And here, let me give you an anecdote or an example, if not by birth in the eighties, that we did great with Drac Ball or Arale. There's a whole generation of Catalans who have the castle as their mother tongue, but they've gotten used to seeing these series in Catalan, and so they've normalized audiovisual consumption in Catalan, haven't they? Hence the importance that all these products are available in Catalan language, because they generate consumption habits and generate consumers of the audiovisual sector in our language. See if he did for the català Balla de Drac that the popular anchor of The Resistance, David Broncano, born in Jaén, surprised to hear that mythical song of "Llum, fire, destruction" – which I'm sure many of you know – and explained that he watched Balla de Drac through satellite television. So, even to Jaén, so, the Catalan language came through Drac Ball. And, for what it does to the presence of more titles in Catalan language, in this case to the great plataforms, beyond the bet decided for Filmin – which I think is worth highlighting that the cataleg of Filmin did contain work in català–, we think it would be interesting to explain to us, advise, which work is doing the department. We understand you're in contact with these great plataforms... knowing how these contacts work. And, surely the result of these meetings and this silent work, we know this month of March that Netflix will incorporate seventy titles in Catalan language during this 2022. Therefore, we also celebrate this incorporation of our titles, insufficient, obviously, but surely there is a way to recoil and, as we say, a lot of work to be done. The fourth point we'd like to outsource may not have such direct involvement with his department, but with the Government of the Generality and with the public media. Let's talk about the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation's new bet to relaunch and rethink the mythical Super3, right? I return to the Drac Ball; surely now there are very different products, and, in fact, in the last control committee, now a couple of weeks ago, the president of the corporation, Rosa Romà, explained that starting in September this Super3 Club will be relaunched by adapting its contents and also the formats – here it is important that the formats are adapted – to these new consumption habits, which no longer pass so much through linear television, but pass above all through the most digital part. So, well, we would also like to know, from Culture, how they value this new bet for Super3, and the importance, and, in this case, in the mark of the national pact for language, of generating these consumption habits especially in the children's and youth's public, right? How important it is that we find ourselves, in this case, a public platform, with the public service mission, and, therefore, with respect for diversity and everything represented by the public media of the country, therefore, in Catalan language. That would be the fourth point. And in the last place, and beyond all these policies we could say short or medium term, we do know that from the Department of Culture and the Government of the Generality, and, in fact, with a broad consensus of this Parliament, there is a clear bet for the audiovisual hub of Catalonia. It is about the Catalonia Media City, which is to be located in the district of the Three Xemeneies, on horseback between Sant Adrià de Besòs and Badalona. You yourself said: "It is a very ambitious project, which went beyond this legislature – therefore, with this look beyond it – "which must equip the country with a centre of production, research, innovation, centered on audiovisual and also on video games. Let us not forget the importance of video games in the digital field, a growing sector not only from the linguistic point of view, as we say, but also from the industrial and business point of view. Yesterday we attended a presentation of the report of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia where the figures of the sector were donated, and, therefore, also from the industrial point of view..., the generation of places of work, the generation of places of work of quality, is very important. Therefore, we know, counsel, that this is not a simple business, but that it has the clear bet not only of the Government of the Generality, but of the different administrations involved. And, so... if you could give us more details in this sense. And, therefore, they give us the title of the act that they do the other day with the whole audiovisual sector, we have to make a guide for the audiovisual in Catalan. He's got it from the administration. We have to accompany the sector, unfortunately, after a decade where surely not all the efforts are made. And now what it does, then, is to accompany the sector, because it has already proved, with success like d'Alcarrás, that we have a lot of talent at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.27.0	There's the word "Culture Counselor," Mrs. Nattalia Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.28.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Congresswoman Sans, and good afternoon to the rest of Members and Deputies. Congresswoman, since it can't be any other way, I share with you everything you've said. Ever since I took on the role of Culture Advisor, we've been betting on a tour of the Catalan audiovisual industry. We have a clear vocation to strengthen the totality of the sector and also to grow, thus, the creation in Catalan language. Catalonia is a land of audiovisual: by history, by tradition, by talent, by creativity, by vocation. That's why we're increasing the support of the department in all its future, which I'm going to explain to you now. But first, let me remind you why this sector is important. The audiovisual creates imaginations, describes our landscapes and ways of doing things, transmits our language and generates a conversation among all the citizens. Why, who doesn't watch the audiovisual today? If we talk about Catalonia, making movies and serials respond to the interests of our publics and allows us to equip the citizenry with contents that touch them well, please them and thrill them. But it's that, in addition, it also allows it to be visible. The international dimension of audiovisual in our home is very important in relation to the volume of business. Yesterday, ACC presented its annual report on the sector, including production, advertising, video games, media, and data: 6,700_million euros in billing, 3,600 businesses, 31,000 workers. If from here we bring advertising and media, with data of the Idescat of 2019, which are the last ones we have homologable, we place ourselves in a billing of 2,000_millions, with 14,000 workers and 2,000 companies. Therefore, a very important sector in our home. This is thanks to the fact that the audiovisual sector is giving work to a multitude of great professionals, and with a lot of talent. Just a few days ago – and now I was saying, Member – on the 20th, we met in an act with about fifty representatives of the sector to make a general overview of everything we do as a department to promote their pocket. General overview because communication with the sector is constant, and its members know very well what recovery they receive from the department. But we want them as well as all the citizens of Catalonia to be clear that for this government the audiovisual is strategic. Therefore, we give him more support than ever and we are at his side unconditionally. The Department of Culture always works short and long term. In the long term, because we are ambitious, we want to be ambitious, with projects like the audiovisual hub Catalunya Media City in the Three Xemeneies, which we have already remembered some time, from Sant Adrià de Besòs, quoted for you now in your intervention. Catalonia Media City will be an extraordinary centre of research, innovation and production for the audiovisual, video games and digital content sectors – which we must not forget, as you rightly do – the first level cultural and business infrastructure that will integrate production facilities for the national and international markets, the gathering of entrepreneurs, technological innovation, advanced training. Thanks to the hub, Catalonia will become the audiovisual epicentre of Europe and the north of the Mediterranean. This project has to be used to attract great international productions, but it also has to be set up in the territory, boost the own industry and give opportunities to local talent. It's been a long time since the great professionals left to realize their full potential, and it's time to change this dynamic. Catalonia's Media City project is progressing steadily. That is why, like the Generalitat, we will soon – well soon – join the Consortium of the Besòs to work together with all the administrations, especially those in the area, to push it forward. In this sense, we are very pleased with the conversations that we continue with the assemblies of Sant Adrià de Besòs and Badalona, because for us it is indispensable, absolutely indispensable, that the project be integrated in the round, that I create places of work, that it stimulates the territory and that the visions and the visions are theirs. In short terms – we also work in the same area, as we said – we also bet decisively on the audiovisual. How concrete is this bet? The assumption for the Catalan audiovisual was 36,9_million euros, this year 2022. Of these 36,9_million euros, 25,5 are for help lines of the department, 7,5 are the well-known bottom of the State – which I will now explain – and 2,9 European funds – come for the Next Generation fund for cinemas –, and 1, also, which still remained, to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on cinemas. Now I'll explain the lines of support to the audiovisual we have in the department. Reply to your question, Member, this year we have increased the initial assumption of these lines from 17.5 to 25.5 million euros. From this increase, and to answer your question, I want to highlight some increases that I think are very important and that we have made in the help to promote large-format films and series in català. Let's start with the movies. So far, the help that could get to hold a movie in original version in català or occità in its different range was a maximum of 800,000_euros. Encany will do two projects with a maximum of EUR 1 million and two projects with a maximum of up to EUR 1.2 million. And that's what we do because we want to make sure that every year there are at least four large-format films in catalá. And we continue to maintain, yes, the help we did to the rest. On the series, we also bet for the big format. The new line increases the maximum amount per project from up to 400,000 euros that we did until the year passed to 1.5 million euros, also per series. I have already told you at the beginning of the legislature that our ambition as a department was not to return to the levels before the crisis, but to implement solid and stable bases to grow the cultural sector in all its dimensions. And now it's time to take a tour of the Catalan audiovisual. Taking the lead is making the whole sector stronger. Taking a tour of the guide is to visualize the use of the català as an opportunity. Making a guided tour is to ensure that there are large-format productions. The round successes, later on, such as that of Alcarrás in Berlinale, are clear proof that films and series in our language can be successful in the world, and we must constantly remember; that Catalan language is not an obstacle, but rather an immense added value; that the catalá highlights our singularity and projects us strongly in a globalized and open world that each time recognizes more and embraces cultural and linguistic diversity. So, this is our bet, like the government. As I have advanced, we also celebrate that they have returned to Catalonia €7.5 million from the well-known fund of the Government of the State. Let's talk for a moment. The Llei Spanyola 55/2007, of 28 December, of the cinema, established the creation of a fund for the promotion of cinemas produced in Spain in official languages different from the castle. That's what I did – and that's what we needed to explain –..., is a commitment to return annually to the autonomous communities the fifty_per_cent that each government had spent the previous year promoting production, distribution, exhibition and also the promotion of audiovisual, in our case, in Catalan. In 2012, the State unilaterally decided not to include this item in the assumptions, and it did not do so again until 2022, thanks to the negotiation that you mentioned from your parliamentary group in the Congress, a set of 10,5_million euros of bottom, of which 7,5 have come to Catalonia, as the country that engages in cinematographic production in its own language. For what it does to the plataforms, from the principles of this legislature we are talking to all of them to fulfill three objectives: to incorporate into the catalogue all those films and series that we already have folds, so much those of TV3, that we know..., since the year 83, with those others that since 2013 we are folding from the Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. This also implies a work of technical compatibility in which we are now working. The second objective is to enter as co-producers in films and series in català. It is very important that they participate in our productions, because this way they will be bigger and have a better bill. And finally, we're in contact because we incorporate the fold and the subtitle of films and series. And that's what Netflix is doing right now. The fruit of these conversations, as you said, therefore, there was this minimum of seventy annual titles. And, in fact, today I can announce that Netflix has already inserted into its catalog twelve Catalan premieres – a doubling and eleven subtitles – some of which are full time series. The first film has been The Marí monster, which can already be seen in its cataleg, and in the subtitles highlight titles like the first season of Thousand Empires, which can already be seen subtitled. We are very interested in children and young people. And, about which I was wondering about Club Super3, let's celebrate the changes announced by its president, Rosa Romà. So we share your concerns and longings, Congresswoman. I want to say in his parliamentary office that, just as audiovisual is a strategic priority for this government and for this department, so is language. We're doing an audio-visual tour in Catalan, and that's what you'll be able to see, for sure, in the next few years at the movie posters and at the catalogs of the platforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about tourism development policies]] [[300-00190/13]] Let us move on to the agenda, the question to the Government on policies for tourism development, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.30.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor, good afternoon to you all. From the Parliamentary Group of VOX we have the enormous responsibility, coinciding with the beginning of the summer, to present today an inquiry regarding the tourism sector in our region. Again, in VOX, unlike most of the parliamentary groups in this House, we continue to have the bad habit of worrying and dealing with the real problems of Catalan families, their daily longings and anguish and their future aspirations and hopes. In this way, with this interpellation, and next week, with the subsequent motion, we mainly assume two objectives. First, to denounce the Government's discharge of functions in the tourism sector and to provide Catalan society with a real diagnosis of the sector in our region. A diagnosis that moves away from triumphalism and complacency to those who unfortunately have us accustomed to a disoriented and incapable government. Secondly, with our proposals to this House and to all Catalans, we offer a good management alternative in the field of tourism that guarantees jobs and returns international recognition to our region. Yes, an alternative that shows a new model of management of public resources for tourism in Catalonia in a responsible, effective way and without falling into ideological hesitations and empty mantras of content. Mr Councillor, on numerous occasions you have mentioned the need to define a new tourist model, a model, and I quote literally, "with a series of principles and values associated with the tourist brand of Catalonia". We would like to know what these values are that you want to link to the Catalan tourist model. Ecofeminist Tourism? Inclusive? Multicultural with Anticolonialist Perspective? What is clear is that the strategic tourism plan of Catalonia has already expired. It's been for a while. Look, so soon, what we do know are those problems that our tourism is suffering and that, unfortunately, are undermining the wealth generation capacity that this sector could potentially have in Catalonia. Workers and entrepreneurs in the tourism sector in Catalonia face a much worse fiscal and regulatory suffocation than other regions of Spain and countries in our environment. Today the economic impact of tourism in Catalonia represents approximately twelve_per_cent of GDP and around fourteen_per_cent of employment, do not bite the hand that gives us food. The overwhelming logic would tell us that, given these figures, any responsible ruler would take care of this sector and promote its stability and development. You are more of parallel and metaverse worlds in Catalan than of unappealable realities and logics, thus dynamizing one of the main economic engines in our region. Do you know how the Government of the Generalitat takes care of this sector and these jobs? By looting 44_million_of_euros from tourists' pockets by means of a tax invented on stays in tourist establishments ill-known as a tourist tax, a tax of its own that has been pulled out of the sleeve with the gross excuse of, supposedly, reversing that money in promotion of Catalan tourism. The reality is that this money is a disincentive to the arrival of tourists in our region, said both by entrepreneurs and workers in the sector and by some municipalities, which are supposed to manage these revenues and do not reverse them. I give you a very clear example that I was told by an entrepreneur from the Costa Dorada. A family of four members who go a week's vacation to the beach. It costs you a hundred more euros due to your tax hell to go to the beach in Tarragona than in Castellón. Where do you think they're going? By the way, this businessman, Catalan, is delocalizing his company and is investing and opening new hotels in other regions of Spain. Do you know why? For the bureaucracy, for the increasingly degraded image of our cities, for the lack of security, the excessive regulation and the normative obstacles resulting from its climate fanaticism, which prevent the exploitation and touristic exploration of many localities and territories of Catalonia, leaving many families of the coast and the interior of our region without opportunities. In addition to the tourist rate, they now propose introducing a new tax burden, a tax on cruises, attacking the work of thousands of businesses in the coastal zone, while their negligent and unilateral management and distribution of European funds means that many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have not received a cent. Mr. Counsellor, centre on ending the precariousness of the sector, prioritizes the great forgotten government, vocational training, and adjusts the supply and demand in the labour market of catering, hospitality and travel agencies. Look, this news is from June 17th. [[the speaker shows a full camera]] : « The hotel store looks for waiters in Catalonia, while thirteen_ thousand are registered in unemployment ; « Restaurateurs do not see the SOC useful to hire workers – of the same news. Clearer, water. They not only have a policy based on ideological delusions, but above them they are terrible managers. I know you're moving away from your left mantras, Mr. Counselor, but listen to what we say on VOX. Promoting tourism is not incompatible with the economic diversification and reindustrialisation of Catalonia. It is possible to take advantage of the opportunities that the tourism sector brings as long as we mitigate the possible negative externalities, such as the increase of life in certain areas receiving tourists or the effect of annoyance and expulsion of local people. What kind of brand do you want to sell, Mr. Counselor? What kind of image in Catalonia do you think you're projecting to the world and the rest of Spain? For now, your plan isn't working. On the contrary: they are leading, together with the worst mayor in Barcelona's history, tourismophobia. Catalonia has lost almost 2 million tourists compared to 2019, being the region of Spain that has fallen the most, and representing thirty_y_five_per_cent of the total Spanish loss. And no, Mr. Counsellor, the pandemic is not the only one responsible for this debacle: the growing insecurity in our streets and tourismphobia, fed by you and your communist and anti-system government partners, discourage the arrival of tourists on our territory. In May of this year, the Mossos d'Esquadra warned tourists that the city of Barcelona will record a wave of thefts during the summer season. If Barcelona ended with an increase of 6.6_per_cent of the crime rate compared to the previous year, 2022 is expected to be much more alarming. Crime remains a scourge for the sector. What preventive plan does the Government plan to implement to ensure safe tourism on our streets? Catalonia has become the paradise of criminals. We have tourism from France that comes to steal from our neighbors. And, if you don't believe it, go and hear testimonies from Gerona's neighbors. [[Some applause.]] Mr Councillor, you share your rejection of tourism, that is, your rejection of the bread of thousands and thousands of Catalan families, with your CUP government crutch. What plans do you have to end once and for all with tourismophobia in Catalonia? Faced with this situation, what is the tourist model we offer from VOX? Listen: we say 'no to the growing wave of crime and the top manta, and 'yes to institutional stability and security in our neighbourhoods. We say 'no' to tourismophobia and 'yes' to the protection and promotion of a key sector for the well-being and development of thousands and thousands of Catalan families. We say 'no to over-regulation and fiscal suffocation, and 'yes to the redistribution and diversification of tourism in order to enhance other comparative and competitive advantages in Catalonia. We say 'no to climate restrictions, empty words and unproductive spending, and 'yes to enhance the value chain for those who visit us; 'yes to the management of the digitisation of the sector, 'yes to the development of indicators on tourism competitiveness,'yes to the creation of an appropriate institutional and regulatory environment to enable the development of business initiatives and job opportunities. We say 'yes' to common sense and to the feeling of most actors in the sector. Work so that, after a severe pandemic, this summer season means the season of recovery and the rise of tourist levels that allow to continue creating wealth and well-being around the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.31.0	Then, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.32.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, the extreme right always does the same thing: come out here, say we have to speak rigorously and do an analysis, and then the only one that does is run us over, almost literally, with this sequence of argumental, false, lying, topical, accusations, all kinds of slander and all kinds of prefigured ideas. Because, in fact, it's the same, I mean they don't really want to ask this councilor or any other; what they want is, I suppose, the kind of video they're going to do with their intervention, which doesn't really help the sector and much less. But to me, in respect of the sector and the whole of the city, I would like to talk about tourism, and to talk about it with this more rigorous analysis, with this analysis in relation to data, which is what explains, in short, where we are and where we want to go. We're starting a summer campaign that, obviously, has its perspectives, has its objectives. We'll have time to evaluate it, we'll have time to see how it's evolved, especially considering that it's going to be the first time you're unrestricted from a point of view of mobility, from a point of view of social interaction. And therefore, this will mark which is the first summer, which is the first post-pandemic summer campaign. And, therefore, from here we will not make any conclusions that would go further, I understand, than is strictly the first year after the covid. Probably will be the conclusions of the first campaign of the new paradigm after the pandemic. But in any case, whatever we have a forecast for the 22, what we have is the 2021 data, from which, I insist, I think we need to make an assessment to see where we're going. Well, the year 2021 was the year of the recovery of the tourist activity– which, I say again, I hope is consolidated this 2022–, which involved 23 million tourist visits to our country, huh? , 23_million visitors, which means 51,2_per_cent more than 2020. Therefore, starting with this recovery, a recovery that was fundamentally based on the Catalan interior tourism, on the country's interior tourism. In fact, 13.3 million of these visitors were visitors to the country; therefore, Catalans and Catalans who discovered or rediscovered, from this point of view, our country. And a very important fact, because in the end the volume of tourists is decisive, but for us it is still more the economic impact that this supposes. That is to say, from this point of view, what are the positive inputs that at the sector level, and beyond the economic conjunct, generates this volume of tourists. So, 2021 the impact was 8,881_million euros, which means 54,9_per_cent more than 2020. In other words, it increased more than 21 in relation to 20 the impact on tickets than the total volume of tourists. So what I'm saying is that every visitor in mid-January spent more than 2020 and what he did in the pre-covet trend. And this I think is a significant data. So I go back to insisting and summarizing: 2021, the year of tourism recovery, with increasing, obviously, respect for 2020, but with some considerations of substance that already allow us to learn some of the lessons that we will have to take into account in the future. What have we done all this time precisely to ensure the recovery of the tourism sector? So, among other things, help the sector directly. Between 2020 and 2021, we are the territory of the Spanish State that has mobilized the most resources to help directly the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and specifically, obviously, the tourism sector; 3,182_million euros in aid distributed between 2020 – 877_million euros – and 2021– 2,305_million euros. Directed, as I said, above all to the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic situation. And among others, and especially, obviously, the tourism sector and small and medium-sized businesses in Catalonia. I repeat: €3,200_million, the territory of the Spanish State that has mobilized the most money to help these sectors. Good part, with direct help, and part, too, with active policies of occupation, which means with policies of occupation, which means with policies also of formation; which means, therefore, of generation of opportunities of future for the workers and workers of this country. Direct aid to the sector which, obviously, accompanies the healthcare response, especially for the vaccination campaign, has helped this recovery, which has been thanks, in particular, to the resilience capacity, the ability to resist a sector which has certainly gone very badly over the last two years. And, in any case, as I said, what we have achieved is that, from this resilience, from these public policies to help directly the sector and also to promote consumption..., in fact, a few months ago, the Department of Enterprise and Treball we pushed the Estalviage campaign precisely to help the tourist mobilization from the end of the Nadal season and before arriving Holy Week, precisely to maintain the occupation, to maintain the activity before arriving at this summer campaign. Therefore, we have not only made direct aid, but, moreover, we have mobilised resources to make consumer campaigns like Estalviatge. And this allowed us this recovery, which finally translated into the data of the day. We have the best month of May of all the historical series for which he does the job data, better and all that before the 2008 crisis. And that, to a good extent, is thanks to the employment in the service sector, which is where it has decreased the most after the primary sector, after agriculture. That is to say, after the primary sector, the sector that has generated the most occupation, and, therefore, which has helped lower the rate, has been the service sector, obviously, in good part, thanks to tourism. But, as I said at the beginning, with these good recovery data there's not enough. We are aware of the need to transform the model. We are aware of the need to put in place these fundamental transformations that must live the entire product model of our country, all economic sectors, especially tourism. Because what you want is for us to be stuck, for us to be anchored, for us to stay back and then lose opportunities. Because all of our surroundings, those tourist destinations with which we compete, are also making this transformation effort aligned with the principles and values, yes, that we want for the societies of the 21st century. And if we don't do it ourselves, if we don't get through this transformation process, we'll lose opportunities, which, in the background, is what you want. And, as we are not prepared to do so, we are willing to lead this transformation that allows us to set up this responsible tourism model, this national commitment for a new tourism model, from which, and based on the consensus that we are working with the sector..., we are allowed to draw the dissemination and strengthening campaigns of the market – through, for example, the strategic or the marketing plan – and that also allows us to generate a new tourism law of Catalonia, which, among other things, is effective at the regular time that the previous law does not regulate because it does not exist, because it is not on the table and today that it is, and therefore, that it is to be regulated, and that it allows us to determine which reality this new model does not regulate because it does not exist, because it is not on the table and yet there is, and that, among other things, it is effective at the regular time that the previous law does not regulate because it does not exist, because it is not on the major tourism law that allows, however, it is to rule out, and that allows the most of which allows a new tourism model to be deleted. This is what we're working on. And to put up with this is to do a very weak favor to the sector, which is perfectly aware of the need to rethink, of the need to rethink the tourism model, because, like all economic sectors, obviously, it has very positive inputs – we have already talked about the generation of occupation, the generation of wealth, the ability to mobilize resources – but at the same time, it has negative externalities, and what we don't want is that these negative externalities end up harming both the model and the unsustainable doing, ultimately. Therefore, a new tourist model that we are working on and that we will bring to the Parliament of Catalonia and that the Members and Members, therefore, can work, because, obviously, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to adapt the sector to the 21st century.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.33.0	In the turn of the line, Mrs Isabel Lázaro once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.34.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, with this intervention you have just made, you are once again showing your complacency and desirousness. But it doesn't offend who you want, but who you can, and you don't have the capacity to offend thousands and thousands of Catalan workers and families. Let's focus on what really matters. I assure you that the proposals we are going to put forward in the motion are made with the best of will. I ask you to look at them and think about them, because we are only going to focus on what really matters to the tourism players we have talked to. Look, I've already told you in the interpellation: less taxes, let's eliminate the tourist rate, let's not increase taxes, let's not put any more taxes on cruises; less bureaucracy and regulation. Do you know how long it takes the municipalities and the Generalitat to bid a work to open a business? [[Pause.]] We've got to figure it out. You say: « Image of Catalonia. The Catalonia brand, Mr. Counsellor, does not sell; what sells is the Spain brand and the Barcelona brand, but the Catalonia brand does not sell anywhere. Aid is needed to meet needs, not to satisfy their ideological delusions. Look, do you know the path to achieving the objectives of your strategic agenda, Mr. Counsellor? Do the opposite of what you've been doing. I repeat what I have already said to you in the interpellation: less empty promises and ideological, climatic plans, and more to deal with the tourism potential of our beaches, our forests and our rural and natural environment; less tourist taxes and cruise fees, and more aid to SMEs and families in the sector; less red tape and unnecessary regulation, and more facilities for entrepreneurship; less tourismophobia and crime – less criminals looting watches – and more security in our neighbourhoods; less fiction policy, separatist and progressive dye, and more real policy. Taking care of the day-to-day workers and entrepreneurs in the sector would earn much more, counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.35.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the word Business and Work Councilor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.36.0	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. Miri, what is a touristic intervention is what you just did here, because precisely what you just did is an intervention that goes against development, against progress, against the will of the sector to position itself more competitively in a changing environment. You are still anchored in certain decades of the past few years, but time has changed, time has passed, and the economic sectors need, if they want to be competitive, to adapt there. And what you've done here is an absolutely touristic speech. You do practice parliamentary tourism. I already know that for you the sustainability agenda, the green transition, the Green Deal at European level, would be like a species of version 2.0 of the Judeo-Masonic contubernium, but it turns out that it is an absolutely transversal political agenda at European level involving all the ideological families of the European Parliament, because it is an absolute necessity from a point of view of the environment, but also from a point of view of economic opportunities. And we don't want to miss any economic opportunity. Therefore, we want to help the sector evolve further here. And, listen, one of the manifestations of this will is the overnight rate in tourist establishments, which is not that we have it in Catalonia, it is not that Barcelona has it, it is that they have most of the cities of the world that are the main tourist destinations, because in all of them they know that there are negative externalities that we need to know to internalize and that we need to make it not as important as they are because they are the same, the tourism model, the sector, that we want not only that they continue to have an indispensable fish in the country's economy, but that they continue to advance. And to do so, I insist, it needs a modernizing agenda. And it needs another agenda, which is what we have been doing during this time and which seems essential to us, if what we really want is quality tourism, which means tourism that respects the environment, tourism that is able to sign up to the fact that some have not already given the « economy of the territory or the « Porpra economy, that is that it is able not only to generate tourist activity, but to do so respecting the environment, respecting culture, respecting idiosyncrasy, respecting the destiny they visit. And we, I insist, do, and so we go to those markets that we can provide visitors, that we can provide tourists of these characteristics that will strengthen the model we want for our own years. And in this sense, therefore, we have made a very important effort, for example, with the North American market, which we want to recover, which is not the main market – the main market is the French market – but it is the one that generates the most expense. And, therefore, we have made an important effort at the level of resources as had never been done, through the Catalan Tourist Agency, to recover an important part of the North American market. I insist on it, because of the resources it generates, because of the expenditure it generates for our country. And, at the same time, we have done another thing, another initiative, perhaps of a deeper, more structural character, which is to emphasize the food and tourism brand, precisely because we are aware of two things. On one side, because a visitor who is soft for interests related to gastronomy or related to the culture of the vi is spent in the order of 3.5 times more than a visitor who does it for any other interest. That's from a band. And of the other, because it is a touristic report that allows us this deconcentration, that allows us this territorial diversification of tourism, that allows us, among other things, for example, so that the Penedès can also have an important weight for what it does to the generation of GDP around the tourism sector, or the Alt Empordà or the area of the Coasters of the Secret or any other of the twelve designations of origin that our country has. We have nothing to envy, from the point of view of the enogastroturistic destination of the world, to other places, neither to Tuscany nor to any other of the French designations of origin. And that's what we want to boost, I insist, because it allows us to connect perfectly with the values we want for tourism. This strategy was presented last week, and it seems to me that you are a good conductor, a good report, that allows us to synthesize all those principles and values that we want for tourism, and that we are willing to transform it. You are anchored, stuck in an attitude that harms the sector; we want modernity, adaptation to time and, above all, we want a sustainable tourism, which is what we are working for. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.37.0	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the need to guarantee citizen security, which the Parliamentary Group of Citizens has presented. [[Asking the Government about the need to ensure citizen safety]] [[300-00181/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.38.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors... Once again, Councillor Elena, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we find ourselves under an obligation to ask you about the need to guarantee citizens' security. In a democratic society, in a social and democratic state of law such as Spain, each and every citizen has the full right to develop his or her daily activity in peace and freedom, without the slightest impairment of his or her rights, without having to endure any kind of coercion or limitation of his or her freedoms and without fear for his or her physical integrity or for his or her property and property. This, to enjoy the security that allows them to carry out their daily activities in peace and freedom, without any fear, is a right that the public authorities, the governments and the authorities entrusted with public security must guarantee to all citizens always and everywhere. However, Councillor Elena, once again, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans we are obliged to ask you about the need to guarantee citizen security; an obligation that comes from a reality that you, as you have done before, will possibly deny, but that is the reality with which many of our fellow citizens live in Catalonia – also in other parts of Spain, but especially in Catalonia. And about the situation in the Catalan Autonomous Community is what we have to talk about and discuss; this is our area of action and that is its area of competence. You, Mr. Elena, as the Home Secretary of the Government of the Generalitat, are primarily responsible for ensuring citizen security as a fundamental instrument for each and every one of our fellow citizens, in the scrupulous respect for the democratic order and the rules of coexistence that we have given ourselves in this social and democratic state of law that we enjoy, to live and develop their life plan with full enjoyment of their rights and freedoms. And this, Mr. Elena, counselor, I must say to you that it is not always so; I would say more, on too many occasions it is not so. Our parliamentary group has presented, throughout successive legislatures since our arrival in this Parliament in 2006, a multitude of initiatives aimed at guaranteeing citizens the required levels of public security and improving operational capabilities, the main instrument that the autonomous community has to achieve this guarantee of citizen security, to improve the operational capabilities of the Generalitat Police, of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. Many of our proposals have been approved by this Parliament, either in plenary or in committee. However, successive governments, since Artur Mas decided to get on the hill and dragged in a self-destructive spiral to the once almighty Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, have been using the Parliament of Catalonia as a merely instrumental institution at the service of the partisan interests that prioritise the political action of the separatist disgovernments that we are suffering. So many of the proposals adopted in this Parliament fall down when the legislature is exhausted or become, at the will of the government in office, a mere water of drunkards. The Government in charge, which must be reminded that in practice it has been the same continuous government since Artur Mas decided to embark on a cursed journey to a dystopic Ithaca, a reckless journey condemned to failure from the beginning by the mere consistency of the rule of law, which maintains its democratic strength despite the disdain of some of those who should have been its main valiant. A desire, with regard to the full maintenance of the rule of law, which has been underlined by the work and grace of Mr Pedro Sánchez at the head of the Government that we are currently suffering from by all the Spaniards. I must reiterate in this Parliament that it is an unacceptable shame in any democracy to allow, by the competent governments, what has happened in Catalonia over the past few years. Allow, for example, the systematic cut of the avenue Meridiana, a main street of the city of Barcelona that uses thousands of citizens daily to meet their daily obligations, as has been practically allowed daily from October 2019 to February 2022; it is shameful and has no comparison in any of the countries of our democratic environment. Since it is not the case that deputies and separatist leaders made an explicit appeal to the use of violence that materialized in the unholy days of October 2019, an irresponsible, reckless and anti-democratic conduct that made it supposed to follow the groups of uncontrolleds that make up what has been called the CoR and Tsunami, which in both cases have nothing democratic. Nor are they, in fact, the parties that give them the word, if not the amparo; groups of violent and anti-democratic bias that have counted on the apparent connivance of successive government failures of the Generalitat, that in no case have prioritized combating their disruptive action of public security by illegitimate means and that have allowed them to remain underground despite the serious consequences of many of their actions. Little or nothing has been done, from the Department of the Interior of the Generalitat, to avoid the apparent impunity with which these groups, which seek to subvert the democratic order, have acted in Catalonia during the last few years. A shame that they have omitted their obligation to safeguard citizens' security, public security, to the detriment of the rights of the majority of Catalan citizens, in the face of the uncontrolled action of groups of rioters who, without any doubt, have the connivance of the political parties that bear the responsibility of government of the Generalitat. He may have the temptation to deny that indisputable link, but we have seen too often leaflets calling for mobilizations whose main purpose is to support the coup to democracy that took place in September and October 2017, in which he identifies among the authors of the calls to the political parties that support the disgovernment – including his party, Mr.Elena – and the manifestly seditious and violent groups that hide between the acronyms CDR and after that so-called Tsunami who, as is well known, have nothing at all democratic. The serious shortcomings with regard to citizen security, and the sectarian approach to which we are accustomed by the political leaders of your department, Mr Elena, make it impossible for them to be fully covered in a parliamentary inquiry, limited as is the case in the regulatory times. In any case, I will stop at some issues that are topical or that persist over time. Since October 2019 we have witnessed the systematic cutting of one of the main communication arteries of the city of Barcelona, the avenue Meridiana. These systematic cuts have occurred with the approval of the Directorate-General of the Security Administration of the Department of the Interior, especially during the stage in which Mr. Jordi Jardí held that Directorate-General. It is true that their relief is partly due to the partisan colour, but from our parliamentary group we also maintain that their cessation is due, above all, to their sectarian and partisan behavior at the head of the DGAS. Courts that have lasted more than two years, despite the continuous neighborhood complaints, despite the repeated violent incidents led by the individuals who carried out the courts and despite the efforts of the opposition of this Parliament, despite the opposition of Ciutadans, which we have repeatedly called for to be ended with these systematic courts, because the legitimate right to manifest has been at all times compatible with the solution we requested and which has finally been adopted: to limit the space in which demonstrators could be concentrated on a daily basis, safeguarding the right of citizens as a whole to use the public road with total normality. Still, very recently we have witnessed a new fact that shows the mismanagement of the conflict of the courts of the avenue Meridiana. Currently, cuts in the roads adjacent to the point where systematic cuts were being made, causing discomfort and the consequent indignation of neighbours and passers-by. In one of these courts, on 26 May, a woman was assaulted by an alleged journalist who was participating in the tiny procession that cut off a track adjacent to the Meridiana. This is not the first time a neighbor or a passer-by has been attacked. Nor was she the first woman attacked by demonstrators, no doubt emboldened, or by police protection or, above all, by the political approval of the competent authorities. On this occasion, the woman received two punches in the face at the hands of an element that, according to the on-site statement of the chief of the police operation, was controlled and was perfectly known by the acting force. However, the head of the device was limited to having an arrogant and derogatory attitude with my colleague Anna Grau, of whom, no doubt, she also knew her status as a Member of this Parliament, and to advising the assaulted woman to denounce the facts that the head of the operation himself had witnessed. The assailant was not even required for his identification, he continued to accompany as a suspected journalist to the procession and we do not know that the police operation proceeded to denounce him for his aggression.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.39.0	Then has the word, in the turn of answer, the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.40.0	Well, Mr. Congressman, I'll be here today to talk about security, and citizen security. I deixi'mdir- them two things. His intervention at some point seemed like a political will, I tell you, because he made it as a summary of what his political position was about what happened to Catalonia these past few years; absolutely legitimate, only lacking, from his perspective, from his perspective, but it seems to me, from my point of view, with all respect, absolutely out of place of the themes that we would theoretically have to discuss. And the second reflection is on the Meridian. It seems to them that it is hard for them to know that the situation of conflict that was at some point in that artery of the city has ended. It seems that they try to stretch it out, to see if from that conflict in which you feel so comfortable participating in it actively... So look, it's no longer that conflict; it's that they don't even summon the people you claim to represent, because it's been months since the situation is over. Indeed, there are mobilizations; yes, there are mobilizations from citizens who claim, therefore, the one they consider opportune, ask to participate in a mobilization. And another thing: we, the Department of the Interior, do not authorize demonstrations, and less depending on the ideological gaze. There are very small mobilizations, and you only worry about the ones that you don't share, but the many others that are in this country, all of them – luckily – trade unions – and that for many years there is none – and all of them, they don't... just worry about those that you, because of your political orientation, don't share them. So I understand that you're trying to stretch out a situation that... which seemed to be very comfortable, but I won't. Because I'm here to talk about the safety of citizens and citizens, and I'm going to do that. Because the Department of the Interior for which it is concerned and busy is to effectively guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, especially the most vulnerable, and it is true that we have challenges in order to move forward. In the first place, therefore, the return to normality that we had seen spatulate, impossible, as a consequence of the pandemic. Obviously, it will generate more movement, more use of public space, more activity, more presence of tourism, and this, sense of doubt, will generate a repte for the security of our country. And that's why we're implementing measures. Miri, do you know what the first one is? That is why I strongly say that we do believe in security policies. It's getting a little bit closer: 850 a year. That's how defense is our country's security. And putting them where? Near the people, next to the people, working with the joints, working with the local police, working with the joints in a coordinated way. Setting up more mediums, putting up more vehicles, putting in a new uniform for the whole body of the city security units. Yes, to work harder and better alongside the citizens. I repeat: guaranteeing the right of mobilization of citizens and citizens, that it is a fate that we have that people are willing to mobilize, that people are active, that people are demanding. It is a privilege that has this society and that we cannot limit it based on the ideas that each one has, but we must manage it, obviously, to guarantee the rights and freedoms of one another and the rights and freedoms of the other. Security, they always make apocalyptic statements. So look, from the year 19 to the 21_has downloaded the dinosaur_per_cent the number of incidents, the number of crimes. Linked to thefts and scams, so the twenty-three_per_cent have dropped. The thief with strength, the twenty-i-u. Do we have any other reps? Yes, the cybercrime, of course, that is growing and that is a problem that affects very important parts of society, particularly the big people. And also an increase in the crimes of sexual abuse and sexual assault, which are of particular concern to us. So, yesterday, we presented a set of measures to prevent sexual rape against women in the wake of night-time activities. And we did, because we believe that women..., and to ensure that women can be free and do not limit their freedom as a consequence of the por or persuasion of por or real por against them. And don't be brave, but just keep courage for other things. For example, to claim that things change and are not as they have always been, and because no violence goes unpunished. And that's where the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad The eighty-eight percent of sexual assaults, sexual rape crimes, are solved thanks to the work of the Squad Coast. And a plan, therefore, that has the vocation to have more presence, more presence and more proximity, more preventive patrols to the areas where more situations of this mena can occur, more crimes of this mena. Information, information offices suited to great events. Safe routes managed with local police. Attestations of which we have spoken, and many, with the judiciary to know what is the best way to manage and draft them, serving the truth and serving, therefore, more just judicial resolutions. Yeah. So that's all. And also training the agents to serve the victims better, to accompany them more and better, and to investigate more in this sense. And today is a particularly important day, the International Day for Liberation LGTBI+. Yeah. Because they also suffer serious hate crimes and that for us they are also a priority, as I know that on some occasions you have also shown that this must be the case. Or, for example, with devices like Sant Joan's. And I would especially like to thank all the security and emerging bodies that have made it possible for these particularly complex days of the Sant Joan Bridge and the Sant Joan Rivet to be able to appreciate positively – naturally, with many incidents that have occurred – as things have been, the four-thousand squadron mosses that have been working, the hundreds of firefighters, rural agents, civil protection, 112, the SEM and so many other public servants, ensuring security and ensuring the mobility of citizens. And, of course, a combination of measures to ensure security for our country and for the citizens. Measures in the field, therefore, yes, of the summer campaign that sees us above, that sees..., that has already begun and that obviously will not be easy, will be complex, because, after two years of pandemic..., and in which sense doubt there will be much activity and with many wills to return to normality. And, therefore, preparing a special arrangement for these months, for these weeks, at the border of the country and especially in areas where there is more tourism, making public areas, too, not only reactive, but patrolling with local police and citizen security units, making more outside hours if necessary, because we still have to hire more and they still have to do outside hours to ensure, provide the services we need. And working permanently with local police. I don't want to go into the statements that you made, because some of them imply that you consider that there are public servants who have come into contact with violent activities. And if that's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna have to do a little more. Because it's very easy to get here and tell him what you said, that there have been Squad Moves who have been complicit in violent or criminal activities by part of the city. And it seems to me that this is very difficult and, in any case, I would ask you if you have any proof of it, obviously, so you explain it. I repeat: we are to guarantee rights and freedoms. The mobilization right also exists. The right of mobilisation must be compatible, also, with the freedom of citizens who do not wish to make mobilization. And that's not what everyone thinks, and it's not that you seem very good at mobilizing because you think the same thing you and very bad at thinking the opposite, because that's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.41.0	Mr Matías Alonso has the word in the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.42.0	Look, Mr Elena, if I have referred to possible connivances, of course they have not been of the police officers; in any case, of the political leaders, some even spokesmen of parliamentary groups, of their parliamentary group, of Esquerra, in the previous legislature. In any case, the obligation of the head of the device, according to his own words "direct witness of the aggression in the case of the Meridiana", was to denounce the aggressor. Instead of doing so, he merely advised the assaulted person to file a complaint, under the false argument that he, as the police officer responsible for the police operation, could not do so because he was not the assaulted person. He limited himself to that and to show himself – I repeat – a powerless and discourteous woman with the deputy Anna Grau, to whom he did not, despite knowing with certainty his status as a deputy – a deputy of the opposition, of course. Then you are surprised that voices are heard about politicization in the Police of the Generalitat, a police that remains in question too often. And in that, in which some citizens come to fear what you should see as a guarantor of your rights and freedoms, you as a government have something to do with your political decisions, starting with you yourselves seem to fear the Generalitat Police when one of your first decisions has been to pay the toll required by the CUP's anti-system and by Podemos, denying the police model that your successive governments have been conforming to over the years and that had often already been endorsed by this Parliament. This toll obliges us to pay special attention to preventing partisanship in its policies of citizen security. I am going to refer to an episode that may seem anecdotal, but which gives the measure of the precarious situation in which public security is found in Catalonia. On Saturday, May 28, just a month ago, I visited the polygon of Santa Maria, in the town of Artés. A scheduled visit in which I was informed that during the early morning of Friday, 27 hours before my visit, there had been the theft of the electrical cable installation in a polygon industry, whose sixty-five workers were forced to interrupt their work. After a beating in the vicinity of the polygon, a company worker discovered that the stolen cable was rolled up in a nearby place, hidden and prepared for the thieves to come back to take it and sell it, thus culminating in their criminal action. The businessman concerned brought the facts to the attention of the Mossos d'Esquadra at the ABP in Manresa. On the part of a police officer, he was given all kinds of guarantees that a special device would be installed during the next night, the night of 27-28 May, to catch the thieves in fraganti, with their hands in the mass. The businessman and other operators of the polygon made available to the Mossos all the means required of them, including the internal security cameras of one of the companies to control the area, by which thieves should access the stolen copper. The Mossos once again asked the local police of Artés to keep themselves at all times outside of this device and not to appear in the vicinity of the industrial polygon. However, the secured device was not mounted. The thieves came back that night and quietly took the stolen copper. A situation that left perplexing – and not without reason – both the owner of the stolen industry and the other industrialists who made their means available to the police. This, which may seem anecdotal, is, unfortunately, a reality in many industrial estates in Catalonia where security leaves much to be desired, and in part is also due to the ineffectiveness of police action. In this case, moreover, it has meant a real mockery for the industrialist directly affected by the theft, who could have collected the stolen material and sold it legally, thus recovering part of the damage suffered. Another of the stories that will be a safe category this summer is the proliferation of neighbourhood surveillance devices in neighbourhoods and urbanizations where housing occupations are continuously taking place. Many Catalan citizens may or may not enjoy their vacation days or seek the help of family members to stay in their homes while on holiday, to avoid facing a reality maintained over time, the occupation of homes, where police action is insufficient and political action is manifestly deficient. Mr Elena, you already have the task for the coming months: to properly control the groups that systematically manifest themselves to the detriment of the rights of third parties, avoiding their violent actions; to improve the security of industrial estates throughout Catalonia, which, in addition to the thefts, are facing in these months the vandalic and uncontrolled action of the summer boats; and, finally, to take effective measures to prevent the proliferation of housing occupations, which must include, in addition to police action, the improvement of the rules of action and of the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.43.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, has the word Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.44.0	It's magnificent, because you say... deputy, president... You say: "No, no, no, no, I against the Mosses say nothing; it's against the politicians. He said: "The head of the device was powerless, discourteous. He didn't do well. She didn't protect a deputy. He lied and gave false arguments. But here... what do you think I was, the head of the device? It was a move. So, a little serious. I can't say... listen, you've got all the right to criticize the agents of the Squad Coast. I'd just miss it. In fact, they're certainly not too used to it. But don't say it doesn't, because it's because all of his intervention has been about to disallow the head of the operation. All of it. It was not specifically addressed to policy makers. And then what he always does is this, a list, a list of generic disqualifications, without realising them and without explaining what exactly you're reporting. And, therefore, from this point of view, I'm on the coast... then, make me an affirmation..., dedicates another part of his intervention to a concrete case. There are hundreds of thousands of situations that happen in Catalonia, and he told me about one concrete one. You have to understand that at this point I don't exactly have what happened that day. And with a lot of interest, like you did, you gave me a chance to meet, so I'll look into if, anyway, what happened at that concrete moment. No, "I'll investigate no, I'll ask what happened in that concrete case. But we go to reality and what it is. We're betting on security issues. We are committed to ensuring security and freedom, the rights and freedoms of the citizens. And that might make them a little angry, because they're taking the speech, the speech, the false speech, theirs, of security. Conservative political formations always fill their mouths with security issues, but then they are the first to not treat agents well, not to contract and not to presuppositionally prioritize security policies. We will continue to do what we are doing, that it is to make a police force in Catalonia equipped with human and technical means; technical, to put information and investigation to the service of the security of the citizens, and human, to be more clean to the citizens, more clean to the people and cities of our country, to the hands of the assemblies and local police, working folded together, to the hands, that is the best way that things can be done. And that gives results. And that gives good results. What's wrong with security? Home, naturally. That you can always come here to explain to me a concrete case, two five, give, fifteen, twenty, one hundred, of situations that are produced? Of course I do. But it's about knowing what political orientation is and whether or not it's a priority. And in the case of polygons, he's also working in this sense. From air media, from cameras, also in coordination with local police, to solve many cases in many municipalities in which there have been conflicts with this problem. Therefore, we will continue to work in this direction, and this government's priority will be security policies, because we have the conviction that security policies are a social policy that is aimed especially at guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens, and especially of the most vulnerable. And that's why he'll be feeling it. And that's why we're going to prioritize it presumptively. And that's why we're still hiring security agents, and that's why we're making a police force very close to the citizen, because it's the guarantee that it's more effective, more democratic, and more useful to most citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.45.0	Let us move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government on infrastructure, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. [[Infrastructural questions to the Government]] [[300-00192/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.46.0	Thank you, President. Vice President Puigneró, the coalition government of which you are a part, I think you do not have very clear ideas in some questions. That is to say, when you say – it is to say, Together for Catalonia say – to –, Republican Left – go, President Aragonès – say b, eh? We saw it, and we still see it, with the best of Barcelona airport, we saw it recently with the northern round of Vallès, and I don't think I'll be wrong to see it again when it's time to approve and bid on the variety of the Presses and Olot, and I'm not talking about C-32 until Lloret, and I could go on. I mean, sometimes we don't just hear how they relate and how they act in the if of the government. They don't know if they're not talking or if they're not coordinating. And when things don't work out for them or they don't work out for them, it's always someone else's fault, especially the Spanish government. But, look, the one who passed the 10th of June, I think it makes red – to say it..., to use an adjective of his. After months of work to find an excellent solution, to fit different visions of how the northern round of the old B-40 between Terrassa and Sabadell..., and when it seems, after months of work of people of the ministry team and of people of the team of his council, when it seems that he has agreed to it and hours of this announcement, the president of the Generality forbids them to the secretary general of his department to attend the act of presentation of this agreement, and leaves a further chance in the area of a project of an infrastructure, to our parer, clau, huh? Clue for what? Key to the economy, key to the consolidation and creation of work places in the West Valley and, by extension, the conjunction of Catalonia. It is a road infrastructure, yes, a road infrastructure. But it's an infrastructure for the better of mobility and merchandise. You know that the B-40 tram between Abrera and Terrassa will be finished by the end of 2023. And then what? Is he only coming to Terrassa? The agreement that had been working between both governments – the Government of Spain, the Government of the Government of Catalonia – but also the local governments, Sabadell, Terrassa, was good. And you know, it was a good deal. The design and execution of the Terrassa - Sabadell - Castellar del Vallès tram, are – I say in the present – a good news for the socio-economic fabric of the West Valley, and by extension – I return to refer to 'hi', of the conjunction of Catalonia. What does this deal say? What's to be ratified, right? That the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda will make the transfer to the Government of Catalonia of the design and execution of the tram of the north round between Sabadell and Terrassa, as a continuation of this tram that is already under construction and that will end, I repeat, at the end of 2023. And, in addition, the State will spend the necessary money – I repeat: the necessary money and economic resources – for the bidding and construction of this infrastructure. What more do you want, Vice President? You, who spend all day complaining wrongly and rightly transferring, and sure enough... I'm convinced you're going to do it again today. We have said this, but it is also said by the businesspeople, the trade unions, who consider this action to be frequently claimed, as essential for the improvement of the mobility of the Valais area and of the cable import for the preservation and development of the competitiveness of the region, and they understand that this northern round of the road system of Sabadell and Terrassa is to be considered a country infrastructure, written black on white for the trade unions of Sabadell and Terrassa. The area of the tram between Sabadell and Terrassa that you should define, as long as the ministry renounces to make the design and take to public information the informative and evaluation studies that you should give after the bidding, has an influence on half a million inhabitants, who do not have complete perimeters in these co-capitals of the West Valley, but which, moreover, also favors – surely this will be corroborated by the deputy Pol Gibert, of Sabadell – the connection to such important populations as Castellar del Vallès, as Matadepera, as Sant Llorenç Savall and Sentmenat. I repeat: as Sabadell and Terrassa's trading chambers say, it is a comparative burden on other population clusters in the State with less population and less socioeconomic activity. From our point of view, we consider that this reversal should be carried out in the shortest possible time to resolve the black points of this road network which is punished for a high left-handedness, for that, I repeat, to improve the productivity of the economic fabric, which must improve the lives of the citizens and citizens of the West Valley, as stated by the General Union of Workers. Let me also tell you that, from my group, we make a positive assessment of the role that the Government of the Generality has developed, through its council, so as to encourage, so as to promote the institutional consensus essential around this project so necessary for the better infrastructure and mobility of the West Valley. So, and it comes to this point, what we do not understand and value negatively is the sudden negative of the Government of the country, of the Government of Catalonia, to participate in this institutional act that was done on June 10; act that was to contribute decisively to activate this infrastructure and act in which you also contributed decisively to what is faith, huh? And, therefore, we have not just heard this withdrawal, unless the very honorable President Aragones valued even more the supposed electoral interests of his candidates from Terrassa and Sabadell to the proper municipal elections. Mr Vice President, the northern round of the urban systems of Terrassa and Sabadell, as demonstrated by the mayor of Sabadell and the mayors of Terrassa and Castellar, can have a decisive impact on the economic activity, mobility and quality of life of people. So you define, among other things, a document that you have approved, which is the mobility plan of the Vallesos, a document that has been promoted by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Certainly, this infrastructure, analysed in parallel, will not solve the mobility problems of Vallès. The Vallesos – in plural, western and eastern – have real potential in terms of economic activity at the conjunction of Catalonia – of Catalonia and Espanya. And we need the mobility infrastructure that corresponds to this potential, and we don't want to give up claiming an electrified, non-polluting, mobility model that resolves the mobility of short- and long-running goods, with a public road and rail transport network – both – of high capacity in the network and efficient. For this reason, Vice-President, let us give them, from our point of view, that it is necessary to promote and promote the institutional consensus, essential, around this project or these projects so necessary to improve the infrastructures and the mobility of the Vallesos. Politics is building, politics is transforming and creating as a team, but it's also loyalty. And that's why we're still missing you a little bit, and we're missing this loyalty with the set of institutions, not just the government of Spain, but the local administrations of the Vallesos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.47.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.48.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr Terrades. When the other day they told me that today there would be an inquiry into infrastructures and that, in addition, it was an inquiry presented by the PSC, I thought: "Guita, you come to ask forgiveness for the thirty-yes_per_cent of not executing your infrastructures, eh? [[Some applause.]] But it's beyond reality. There was no mention of infrastructure failure. You are now fixed and have come to talk, obviously, about one of the infrastructures, which is an important infrastructure, such as the round of the Vallès. I say, but you don't see the elephant in the room, that it's the big problem of infrastructures that you have today Catalonia and that you have a political leader and that you are... in this case, now they're close to you, that they're the ones in the state government, well, you and Mr. Podemos, right? , that they do not execute..., in short, they make a triple incompliment, because they do not presume that they should presuppose according to the State ; of the third additional provision we no longer speak of it; they do not, obviously, therefore, execute what they suppose; neither do we speak of the fiscal deficit that we suffer a year ago. And now, finally, today you come to talk, obviously, about this infrastructure, about the round of the Vallès, named B-40, which I hope you won't pay us thirty-yes_per_cent, too, huh? , when we have to reach some agreement for the transfer of this infrastructure. Anyway, listen, I don't think it's important to talk to you about this infrastructure. Tell him, for that reason, that, man, given his trajectory and his history, we do need guarantees, huh? We need guarantees that whatever you announce, that you, therefore, make these great announcements of millions of rains, so we want guarantees that this will be completed, and that, therefore, that you promise and what we are talking about, obviously, to advance this country in terms of infrastructure, then it is a reality. Because history, I insist, doesn't play them too much in favor. And we could talk, obviously, and make a rest of some related questions about infrastructure infrastructure these past few years, huh? Starting with the same roll plan, right? The failure of the roundtable, so much the one that refers to 2008-2015, that, obviously, therefore, a part of its failure is the Government of the People's Party, eh? – some others who do not complete with Catalonia – on which, obviously, only fourteen_per_cent, or the 2017-2025 roll plan, have been executed, on which we are currently carrying a 6.2_per_cent of execution. It's true that there's still two years left; they'll have to go very quickly if they want to complete with this roll plan. Therefore, it is obvious that we have many doubts and very few guarantees from you. They are unreliable for what it does, say, to its responsibility in the matter of infrastructure in the State. And, therefore, if I may, I also wish to give you other figures which are scandalous from this perspective. You have presented a report on the total investment carried out by the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat between 2018 and 2022. And these dice, huh? , the real and based data, obviously, on which would be the font that gives us the State, the territorial distribution of the investment of the state public sector, the IGAE, and also that gives the Department of Economy and History, we could see as, for example, during the period 2018-2022, therefore, the investment executed in Catalonia by the Government of the State is of 3,265_millions and that of the Government of Catalonia is of 4,284_millions in this period. Therefore, we see here a difference from what you execute almost 1,000_million in absolute terms, we no longer speak in terms of percentages. Or, listen, if we take into account, moreover, that the investments of the State in the great infrastructures harbours and airports for this period 2018-2021, that are typhorades in 563_million euros, if we remain these investments that the State makes to Catalonia, because they are investments that make in two infrastructures very concrete – the part, say, of ports and airports–, therefore, imagine 'in spite of the differential, as would be the case, of the total investment executed by the Government of the State with the Government of the Generality, no? 1.580_millions of difference. These are the credentials of the Government of the State with Catalonia. And you will say to me: « Home, but you only talk to me about the past, right? I'm talking about what we haven't done about the incomplete promises and the millions of rains. Well, we could also talk about what's going to happen this year 2022 and what we expect to happen 2023, with first-hand figures from the same ministry. I'll give you some examples. Miri, in this report that you have made, the report of the PSC, which is based, I imagine, on the studies made by the Government of the State, envisaged in reverse in rolls for 2022 around 1,600 million euros. Just what we're looking at right now if we look at what works are being done in the rolling stock of the State in Catalonia, the access to the airport of Barcelona or the underground of Sant Feliu, huh? , to put two figures, sum in total, for this 2022, 52_million euros. Clearly, now we're gonna have to figure out what you could spend the rest of the missing money on, right? Because a lot of money is missing. And we'll have to see exactly if this is one more promise that you've made and that you won't fulfill. And, therefore, look, for example, at the reversal they're making on the Parets tram - La Garriga, huh? That it's true that they're at these moments, so they're unfolding this shaft. But, of course, we are still at a very early stage of the planned shift work. I don't think I'm spending 1,000_million euros on this project. So, you'll have to explain to us what the year is going to be like when, last but not least, we see that they don't comply with Catalonia, right? Or high speed, huh? They also tell us that they plan to invest 269_million euros in high speed in Catalonia during this 2022. And also, listen, if I look and search for this reversal that the State has to make in Catalonia at high speed, then I can only find the investments that are being made at the Holy Season, which is true, huh? , bring many years making investments to the Sacred. But looking at the reversal of the works of the first quarter of enguany, it turns out that 11_million euros is worth. Suppose it's spent the same in the following quarters. We'd be talking about around 50 million euros. And the remaining 200, what will they wear out? What lines of AVE will do more in Catalonia? I don't know. Are we going to project? There's a lot of surprises here. Therefore, you must hear that we have many reticences to believe in these announcements that you make to me. Like, for example, the Mediterranean Corridor. The general assumptions of the State for 2022 provide 120_million euros in the Mediterranean Corridor on the Vila-seca - Castellbisbal tram. Miri, the expense you were running last year, 2021, was 61.8 million euros in works, so to speak, on this corridor tram. Home, if they're going to spend 61 years past and now they say they'll get 120 – so they'll multiply by two times that amount, – so, welcome on, but they don't go on this line at the level of execution they're carrying this 2022. So, listen, where are all the money that you say you're running? Will they continue to make AVE lines without passengers and goods at other points in the State? So, maybe..., I'm sure it is, huh? Because I don't think all that money is being spent. And if we talk about ports, huh? So we can also see that the main reversal of road and rail access to the port of Barcelona is in the process of drafting the basic project. That is to say, in the next few months no concrete reversal is foreseen. So, the question I ask you is: these 145,5_million euros that there are in the general assumptions of the State for the ports of Catalonia, where will they be spent? Listen, I think we need to get past the announcement phase, the big announcements and the propaganda, huh? , as you certainly also wanted to be the act you did in Sabadell, beyond the fact that, obviously, we can agree that this infrastructure is a necessary infrastructure for the round of the Vallès, and I must say that from the B-40 many years ago it was spoken– many years ago–, and my political group, which preceded me, we have always been in favour of pulling forward an infrastructure that I gave continued to the tram from Abrera to Terrassa. And now, what we're hoping for is that it's concrete, in the first place, and we have the guarantees of how these powers will be passed on to do what the minister says we can do, and, above all, the resources to be able to do it. And these guarantees, we don't have them right now. The only one we have, obviously, is words. It is true that there have been many conversations, but let us hope that this can come to us by writing, and therefore on this proposal we can make decisions. That's what we expect from the Socialist Party these past few weeks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.49.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.50.0	My parliamentary group was stunned, because from the north round between Terrassa and Sabadell, from the old B-40, we didn't know what you thought, huh? We have known or know what the President of the Government of Catalonia thinks, but not the opinion of the Vice-President of the Government and the head of the Infrastructure Board. That's not what he told us. We're hoping in the five minutes he'll have us talking now, aren't we? It is true that Catalonia has a lack of infrastructure and failure on the part of the Government of Spain. Yeah. But the government of the generality a few too, huh? I won't explain the sixty-seven incompliments we've found of the current government and the past, will I? , that you also conformed to Republican Left, because I don't have time with four minutes to do it. But, look, the Generality's accumulated deficit, between the assumed and unexecuted figures from the year 2013 until the year 2020... 2021 I can't explain it. I can't beat him, because you haven't filed the 2021 issue yet, and we're at the end of June. That is to say, between the year 2013 and the year 2020, of the works that you in infrastructures of all types assumed, they ceased to execute..., and, therefore, the accumulated deficit of promises girls is 2,280_million euros, which is not a small gypsy either. Similar to the state, yes, but you also carry a major deficit, right? , non-executed presuppositions. And, therefore, this too is the weakness of the policies that you have. Actually, if we're talking numbers, I'm sure there are two motions tomorrow, that we'll talk about it again, I don't have any doubts. I see Congressman Canadell screwing his hands. Don't worry, we'll have some checks, then... for discussion, huh? Miri, since the year 82, the assumption of investments by the Government of Catalonia has only exceeded the assumption of investment on three occasions. Do you know in which governments? With the governments of President Montilla. [[Greetings.]] Three presuppositions in which we were to overcome what was presupposed. It's the credentials from this part of the hemicle. Certainly, you've told us a lot about the third additional's inefficiencies. You know that three months ago we were debating, too, in this plenary, a motion on infrastructure, that there was only one point, huh? , to the motion that was later subtended to the full. I'm telling you, the week's show that you're going to see will only have one or two points. I don't fill in my seats. Do you know what that young lady was saying? You asked us, didn't you? We wanted to put a shorter term on it, because we thought the government was clear, that's what. And it was you who said to us: "No, no, three months. Three months... this plenary's term was over the week you're going to see, huh? , you've said it or you've said it. And what did this parliamentary mandate say, which I hope will be completed. So, the 759_millions of the third addition of the year 2008, of the State's non-executed investment assumption, and which will be transferred to the Generality – well, part has already been transferred – and that you and I agree that it is to invest in mobility infrastructures. I remember that Republican Left did not support this young man in those terms; a difference more than his visions. The week you see us have to explain how they intend to allocate these resources. Which of the Generality's works in mobility infrastructures think to finance. It will also help overcome the shortcomings and incompliments that you also have in your full service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.51.0	And, in the turn of the reply, the Vice President of the Government once again holds the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.52.0	Well, thank you, President. Congressman, I said right now that we don't have an interest and we don't want to do the round of Vallès, huh? I believe that what we want, obviously, is, in the first place – and in this I think we agree – that the Generality can draw, process and execute this plot between Terrassa, Sabadell and Castellar. And it is clear that this full route that we propose must go in agreement with the Vallès mobility plan, which approved the same Government of the Generality in 2021. And it's also obvious that... well, we want the generality to be sovereign, and that's why we demand, say, this transfer of powers and also of the ranks, of all ranks, not of the thirty-six percent of the ranks, because, if not, it will be impossible, and we will be ahead of a new deception of the state with the generality of Catalonia. And, so, like I said before, you guys, in fact, aren't very reliable, huh? When they're ruling the state, as their People's Party partners aren't either, and so we need to put all the precautions in place. Therefore, we want to see for writing this proposal, and, once we have it, obviously, we can talk exactly about the... And I assure you that the government will have a joint position on this infrastructure. But, look, you, like I said before, have a problem, huh? , which is said thirty-yes_per_cent. And this problem they have... and they have an additional one, which is that in the background you don't have... [[remorse of the voice]] They have another bigger problem, which is that they don't have a project for Catalonia. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] They don't have him. It's called the alternate government, huh? But sooner they're the intranscendant government of Catalonia, huh? , because they are not credible, their proposals, see, when they govern the State, so..., well, it is not known, that you govern the State, in Catalonia. Look, the aragonese notice much more – they notice much more. Listen, I'd love for you to have the courage and the courage, huh? , which Mr. Lamban has to confront Mr. Pedro Sánchez in the matter of the Olympic Games. You – you – have neither value nor courage [[applause]] to confront Mr Pedro Sánchez for the infrastructure of Catalonia. They have two ministers of the PSC, socialists, ruling: the d'Esports and the d'Infrastructures. Listen, we're not able to get anything, we're not able to get anything, we're not able to get anything, we're not able to get it, obviously, that we have an execution of the infrastructure for Catalonia. They have not managed to impose on Mr Lambán; Mr Lambán has passed them over, and to the ministers of the PSC, in the field of sports. And, in infrastructure, the minister is of the PSC, Mrs. Raquel Sánchez, and Aragó has executed the cent_new_per_cent of the investments in infrastructure by the State; in Catalonia, the thirty-six. This is the real problem that you have. So, how do you want us to trust that the B-40, in the round of the Vallès, will go well? We'd like to, but... please, put down the piles, socialists, which you are ruling in the State, that there are two ministers, the two ministers competent in two projects, and at the moment the results are bad, bad for Catalonia. Listen, maybe we don't have so many, ministers of the PSC, that we might have better results. That's the reality. Therefore, all the confidence in your political group to advance in the matter of infrastructure in Catalonia, but they have to prove it to us. I have to prove it's square before Pedro Sánchez. And you have to prove that your minister, Gavà's ex-mayor, is in front of Pedro Sánchez, and that the thirty-yes_per_cent of execution in investments we have held in the presupposition, this cannot be repeated again, because, if not, it is obvious that we cannot trust you. They're not reliable; so... That's why we want to see this proposal for the round of Vallès. It is clear that the cities of Sabadell and Terrassa need to improve their infrastructure, because they live there, as you have said, half a million people and need to have mobility alternatives, because mobility is one of the great rights of the 21st century, as are other rights, and we need to be able to guarantee them. And in this proposal there will be the vice-presidency of the Government and there will also be the Government of Catalonia to make possible a better mobility for the Valley, for different reasons, but one more of them is that I also know valleys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.53.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the rights of persons exercising sexual work]] [[300-00196/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about the rights of people exercising sexual work, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.54.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Well, this Parliament is a regular scener of a lot of stratospheric debates about women's rights, LGTBI collections, trans collections, victims of male violence, etcetera, which will already forgive me, but the servant of you often has the feeling that they are not in place. We are rich in bla-bla-bla, but little determined at the time to generate effective policies, let's not say to generate resources, in favor of the rights and phonenal freedoms of the people who need it most; let's not say if this causes some ideological stomachache, some compromised situation where someone is going to look at the Mirall and ask himself: "Should I be as advanced as I think? Or do I actually get a repressor of everything that I don't like and that scares me? In this chamber there are those who lay the cry to the cell every day because at the last elections they entered, according to some, eleven members of the ultra-rights. Well, I know of letters; my best notes have never been in mathematics, but to me, when I make numbers, I always get more than eleven, from women's deputies in this chamber, a few more. I'd even say that there are people who are from overseas to Estonians. You know? Like that which is now so fashionable, intermittent fasting; well, I think that in some subjects a very curious thing is activated, which is something like the intermittent ultraright, the people who believe that it is, therefore, the sea of progressive, but in practice it has nothing to envy to national Catholic morality or the Feminine Section of the best times of Franco. "God, fatherland and family was the motto of other times; other times when every woman who had sex out of wedlock, even without charging for it, was described as a whore. What will I tell you about those that, in fact, were charged, with money in hand or in kind. In particular here in Catalonia there have been times when the institution of the "Dear One, you know, authentic parallel families of ladies of the bourgeoisie who sailed with one lady to the high school lot and with another to the Parallel. In the most and most smoky moments of sexual repression in this country – well, and in some of our surroundings –, it came to be considered normal and good that good family sexuals become sexually alienated by whores – or ‘misters, as it was then said – and that it is thus unbridled to arrive without strength at the marriage of the mother of immaculate maidens. Well, not just Franco's death, but other dictators of more places... followed a glue of sexual revolutions all over the world. On paper, we've come to a situation where those who don't have sex are because they don't want to; in practice, there would be a lot to say, you know, but technically it's not supposed to be necessary anymore, the sex of payment. And, in turn, you, the opposite is true: the sex industry is stronger, more diversified and more globalized than ever; it buys a brutal offer in person and online; it involves men, women, trans people, understanding underage people, it has a place on the street, in luxury reserves and in road clubs; there are people who see sex on video, sex on the phone, and even there is sex paying assistance for people with disabilities, erotic massages... In other words, what I have to explain. Above all, we can make many philosophical and moral assessments, but I, like the Member of this Parliament, ask myself: "Is it our job to judge the workers and the sex workers, or to listen to their rights as we do the rest of the workers and citizens? There have been political parties, even political parties that are proclaiming feminists, that publicly demand the abolition of prostitution, is to say, penalize it. Even one socialist minister claimed that he had "put a goal on him when, without wanting, according to her, they legalized the union Other, the only union that fights – because the others don't want to know anything about it – for the rights of the people of this country who live to get money to change any type of sexual performance. It has equated – and equips – prostitution with the greatest indignity that a person can know – uniquely a woman – and is given by the fact that we have to rescue him from this indignity. What? Abolishing prostitution, which is a euphemistic way of saying "punish it", which is not the same as making it disappear. In fact, it is all the contrary; that I asked them in Swedish, where the application of a famous abolitionist model made the prostitution of the streets disappear, but, in change, it multiplied exponentially the offer covered in the form of escorts, private visits, etc. Dear lords of this Parliament, they will already forgive me, but at these heights, pretending that it is possible to abolish prostitution is worse than naivety: it is of an "immoral morality, and I would even say indignant. At a time when trafficking in persons has been unleashed worldwide, when sexual slavery acquires titanic proportions, we cannot continue to ignore the immense damage that criminal puritanism, in addition to childish and offensive, causes to millions of people all over the world, more when everyone threatens to become a huge cage full of slaves with which it is trafficked for all purposes, not only sexual services, but also domestic service in subhuman conditions and even organ theft. Everything that you don't want to see or regular becomes monstrous, becomes monstrous on a global scale, because the mafias are global and their power of destruction is almost infinite. That is why it is more urgent than ever to put our batteries, to be brave, to really pursue trafficking and to cross us between sex workers and all the forms of exploitation that can come to suffer. Do you not realize, Mr PSOE and Mr PP, and so on, that in certain contexts 'absolving' is an empty word? How many centuries have slavery been abolished? And who will dare to say that today in the world there are still no crowds of slaves and slaves? And what worse slavery is there for people forced against their will to earn a living with sex, who are exposed to all kinds of diseases, abuse, violence and, above all, the damned, infamous stigma that apply to these people who consider themselves very kind? How many of you would shake hands and treat as an equal to a person who knew that he has won or earns his life as a whore, chaperone or porn actress? If that person came to ask you for a secretary's job, would you consider it? If you ran for office in this Parliament, would you vote for it? Professionals and sex workers don't ask us to rescue them as camels lady or pretty woman or ask our pity. What they ask of us is respect, respect and realism; that we realize that, as long as we do not accept the reality of their work, that their work can be free and voluntary and we regulate it so that it can always be so, never in any other way, we will be doing nothing other than being accomplices to the mafias, thickening their power and their results accounts. And don't tell me that this is a utopia and that you can't do it, because there are those who have done it, and successfully – almost twenty years of success – is the case with New Zealand. My partner, who is here, Naomi de la Calle, interviewed Concha Borrell, secretary of the union Others – the union of goal – and she told her exactly what sex workers in our country want and need: a model like the New Zealander, who legalizes sex work, all sex work – including the administration of a brothel – and guarantees the labour rights of these people, thus making impossible all kinds of abuses, abuses that can go from child prostitution and the absence of working hours and social coverage up to – how not? – the terrifying ghost of slavery and trafficking. The New Zealand model isn't perfect either, is it? For example, it applies only to nationals of that country, not to the migrant population, precisely when there are so many people who are engaged in prostitution because of their status as illegal immigrants or without resources. Because, yes, before you tell me, I already tell you: between trafficking and voluntary prostitution there is a range of greys that can be very sinister and that includes sexual work not freely decided, but forced by economic necessity. But how many people in the world do not endure all kinds of work and social harassment precisely because of that, because of the damned necessity? And does it not end sooner and better with the need to equip people with laws and rights, with networks of protection, than by ignoring their existence or that of their circumstance? Look, ladies and gentlemen, I am clear that my body is mine; that it is of all and every one of you, the body of your illustrious lords. I'll be careful enough to tell them what to do or stop doing with their body. But like I don't, I don't want anyone to do it. I don't want a prostitute to have free sex with a corrupt cop on a protection switch, or hold a pimp to exploit it and, besides, ill-treat it badly, or throw it on the street without falling dead because they've locked up the club where he works and lives for the covid. Let us be brave, let us enter the dark room of a society as hypersexualized as hyperpuritanized. No whore, chapero or porn actor is more or less than us Members of this Parliament. And although it is not proven that they work for any of us, we all work for them too, to defend their rights and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.55.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.56.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I don't know if you asked me a question, huh? , Mrs Grau, in the end, but I understand that we are asked about the position of the Department of Equality and Feminisms in relation to prostitution, and perhaps also in relation to the proposed law presented to the PSOE at the Congress. This inquiry gives me the opportunity to address myself not only to the hemisphere and respond to the inquiry, but to the whole of the city. I believe that in the last few weeks there are many, especially women and feminists, who may have experienced with concern the intensity of the debate around prostitution, sexual work, above all the presentation of this bill to modify the Penal Code. It has to be said: this proposition of her does this exclusively, and I think it is essential to be able to start with some initial points to place the debate. I take the last reference made by Mrs Grau: people cannot always make free decisions. In fact, it is very common that we cannot take them freely; we take decisions according to the possibilities or opportunities we have at every moment. I mean, it's not just an individual question, it's also structural. I don't have the same opportunities if I was born in the si of a family that went just to arrive at the end of the month that if the family has a home to Cadaqués or the Cerdanya. I do not have the same opportunities if I have had to emigrate or escape from my country and arrive in the Spanish State, where I have great difficulty in regularizing myself in the face of a law of foreign law that violates the rights that obliges me to work in the submerged economy in a very precarious way, that if I am a citizen of full right and work, for example, in an execution of a multinational. Therefore, in a patriarchal capitalist system, racist and LGBTI-phobic, full of inequalities and multiple discriminations, prostitution is not a side event, we have to hear it in all this context. And, therefore, one must be aware that those people – mostly women, but also trans-men and some men – who exercise it without being submissive to the mafia make decisions like everyone else, from the opportunities they have at their abst. And that, whether we like it or not, can't assume in case you deny your agency, deny your decision-making ability. It does not help people to provide effective solutions, if we do not distinguish between mafia, forced prostitution, trafficking, one gang, and the decision of the people who practice prostitution to survive, the other gang, often even to survive in a more dignified way than with a lot of hard work and very difficult working conditions. And this is a key distinction, because they are very different situations; some are crimes, very hard crimes, which are already typified as criminal code crime– followed by pimping, followed by trafficking in human beings–, and others are not and require a much more comprehensive, more complex approach. It may also be recognized that there are different feminist positions about prostitution, because feminisms are diverse. And that's why it's not acceptable for a party to try to weaken feminisms by denying its diversity. It is not acceptable to accuse feminists who think they are different from pimps, or entities who defend the rights of sex workers to defend pimping, because one thing, obviously, is not comparable to the other. And neither is it acceptable that the sight is denied, that the agency of women and people who decide to engage in prostitution is denied, because this only makes the stigma that weighs on these people worse. Therefore, this was not to distribute feminist notebooks, because the feminist movement is diverse and is not party property; this should be done by putting women's rights, guaranteeing the rights of women and the pool of people who engage in prostitution at the centre. And the proposed law presented to the PSOE at the Congress is purely symbolic politics, certainly also electoralist, and now I enter into this question. Measures which are exclusively criminal or punitive, also the names "ablationist", are insufficient and can be very counterproductive. And I will make it very clear why this is so: the modification of the Criminal Code is a very cheap policy, but very; it can be symbolic politics, especially when it is not accompanied by other elements that wander around the issue. As cheap as simply banning a paper – as if the paper endures everything – prostitution, but not devoting a euro to real alternatives for people who exercise it, as it could be a universal basic income, which would then allow people to make more free decisions. So symbolic as to leave the Spanish foreign law intact, that with its multiple violations of rights it facilitates exploitation. And if at least, as Mrs Grau also pointed out, three-quarters of the women who engage in prostitution are migrants in an irregular administrative situation, why is it not proposed to derogate from this law, or how do we at least modify it in a very substantial way? It should also be pointed out that betting on more punitiveism should, in the first place, involve resources for those measures that already exist. It is clear that the Spanish State has not allocated sufficient resources and efforts to pursue the criminal economy of trafficking in human beings, including sexual exploitation. Although trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation or forced prostitution is a form of violence against women, the State law of violence against women does not include it, and – it must be said – the PSOE has refused to review or modify this law to extend in its object the different forms of violence against women – yes, it is a fact noted – and, in turn, has attempted to break a broad majority consensus at the Congress of Deputies in the law of the "Yes, it is trying to paste into it the article on rental third party, to which I will refer later. And let us not forget that the abolitionist model, in fact, has already been approved in the Spanish State, and the results are more criminalization and more persecution of sex workers. And how did this abolitionist model work? So the law of citizen security, since 2015, the law bites, allows punishing customers, but in practice sanctions have imposed disproportionately on sex workers. And also municipal ordinances: even those who have tried to prevent the criminalization of persons who engage in prostitution have ended up acting much more forcefully against them than against customers. In fact, two of every three penalties, two of every three fines, have been imposed on persons who engage in prostitution. The abolitionist model also involves the displacement of prostitution to other places or to covertness, and, therefore, makes it worse, increases the risk of prostitution. And think well of what it can be like to criminalize the floor logue, the lucrative third party, more than to suppose the reintroduction of a Francoist crime that had been eliminated: it puts at risk the right of women to housing; it exposes them to being denounced for living and working in a place, to being beaten by the veins or by the owners of the floors or to suffer denunciations. That said, neither do we share a regulatory model, strictly sense, as could be the Dutch model or the German model. These models are based above all on the promotion of benefits for entrepreneurs, not for people who engage in prostitution. It is to say, regularize an industry, its tribute, but, in change, the welfare and guarantee of the rights of prostitutes are not at the center of the laws. They are models that place at the centre, as I said, the entrepreneurs, that have control of the activity and the conditions in which this activity is carried out. And because during the most critical moments of the pandemic, as Mrs Grau also pointed out, the brothel companies left many women on the street, and even the whole Dutch case, which is often an example of regulationism, was totally out of control of the support services at this difficult time of the pandemic. With the arguments put forward, therefore, it is obvious or should be obvious that the issue is more complex, that it does not hold on to a paper saying that prostitution is suppressed if there is not a whole series of resources, that what we have to worry about and occupy is how they guarantee and how they protect the rights of women – in this case they say women, but... women, trans people, men, right? , people who are dedicated to sex work–, how to ensure their material conditions and how they are fans of public policies listening to the voice of women and people who are in a situation of greatest vulnerability. And that means decriminalizing the prostitution that happens voluntarily, because criminalization has a hard impact on stigmatization, elongating people from the services and resources they need and from the pool of rights, huh? – social services, greeting, housing. A distinction must be made between prostitution and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and a specific law of trafficking. It is necessary to recognize the ability of people to decide, the recognition of all their rights – greeting, housing, labour and social rights – with independence from the migrating states. It must be counted on the participation of the women and the collectors who engage in prostitution, and not speaking on their behalf; how can we not listen to who is in the first person? And, above all, he also promoted sobriety and managed it from the same women, didn't he? : the promotion of self-occupation, cooperative work and small scale between the same women, because they are the ones who have, in any case, control of activity and guarantees not to do so also when they decide, with a real public support, right? , with benefits that are real in order to have a dignified life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.57.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.58.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Well, I'll be brief, because today, actually, we agree on a lot of things. I mean, we're okay with a lot of things, and it's worth noting that he's okay with it when he's okay with it. Some things that have called for attention, which we no longer want to say to you, but which seems important to me to overtify..., free decisions and decisions that are not politically free deserve a certain approach. And I hope, therefore, that all the overly conservative parties, even all those that are not nominally considered, but that in practice they act as such, make a thought. I mean, as the counselor has said, no one would want to talk about a social pact without talking to social workers or at least seeing that it's being talked about, which is the usual custom. So, in this case, there are also social workers to talk to. Or rather, it is not only not intended to abolish prostitution or abolish it in dialogue with the people who practice it; I mean, listen to the collectives. I'm listening to the only union that, even if it's in the form of self-throwing, they've allowed it to exist and take note of it. Exactly, we don't think it's a question of handing out feminist notebooks either. The feminism that works is the one that solves people's problems, not the one that gets involved in symbolic debates ignoring the reality of women, men and other people. Obviously, we, from this inquiry, will make a motion with concrete proposals. We like what we've felt, we like the counselor's speech. Let's think that other forces in this chamber may also be at work. Of course, let's try, for once, let's say, not overflow the skills we have. We try to do a good job and use them well. To urge the government for which it must be established. And, yes, I try to put pressure, so I insist, on groups that, well, sometimes give lessons of good manners and feminism and freedom to others and that are actually very conservative to the old usage. All right. So we see the week you go with a young man we expect to have a majority support in this chamber, or, as a minimum, a vibrant and sincere support from those who really believe in the freedom of women and people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.59.0	So, in the turn of the line, has the word Igualtat and Feminismes councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.60.0	He was talking about not overflowing the competitions, and it's obvious that there's only one part that, with the current division of competitions and while we're not following a state, so... neither penal code nor certain decisions go through the Generality, but that doesn't mean that we don't have to take responsibility, on the contrary. Before commenting on some of the questions, I would also like to underline, by allusions, that I think they are allusions to many parliamentary groups of this chamber, because there was a species of accusation veiled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in this case, in Madrid, about what was going on with this front in Catalonia, right? , because from Esquerra to the CUP, common, Junts for Catalonia, Ciutadans, had shown itself to be rebuying this proposal of PSOE law. Perhaps, when the support is so broad, in this sense, it does not need to bet on this model that it is simply of magical abolitionism, because later there are no legal measures, no real measures, right? , real approaches to what this law of law of foreign law infringing rights implies, so it cannot be believed, in this project, and, in change, many of the adverse effects can be anticipated. He said, however, that, like the Generalitat, although we do not have full powers to define the model itself that we would like to apply as public policy, does not mean that we cannot do things, and therefore do not take away responsibility. From the outset, the first – and now I'm saying it for the fourth time, but it's the same, you have to say as many times as you need – we demand that the State derogate from the foreign law. It's an outlaw. It leaves a lot of people in a situation of administrative irregularity, and this facilitates its exploitation by mafias. It is difficult as long as you can agree to have papers to work in the formal economy that puts at risk the need for people to be able to earn their lives, for them and for their families, to access social security, and, therefore, to all rights. We are also working to build a country free of racism, with this law that we are working on, that we will work together with the Study Commission on Institutional and Structural Racism in Parliament, but with many other measures that must not depend on being included or not in a law or the time it takes to process it. Why? Because even when there is work permit, when work permit has been obtained, many people, and especially racial and migrant women, often only have the option of accessing very precarious jobs, with worse working conditions. And that is also part of the structural and institutional racism that this country has at these times. We also promote, as in the government, access to universal basic income. It is a job because this can be a benefit that Catalonia has, because it is necessary to ensure survival, to reduce the risk of being victims of exploitation and abuse of power by other people; as I said before, in order to be able to make fully free decisions, also in relation to work options, especially in the case of women. We know that economic autonomy is essential for building free lives. Think about it, before, huh? Prostitution is a complex phenomenon and must therefore have a comprehensive approach. In this comprehensive approach, an element that has not come out before, but that is also important and that is oblivious when they speak only of this abolitionist model, is that it is necessary to do a job to transform the masculinities that perpetuate inequalities and power relations over women, as well as to eradicate the social stigma that weighs on women in a situation of prostitution. Sexual education based on respect, consent and equality. To ensure that women who engage in sexual work have equal access to services and services to ensure that those who find themselves in a situation of trafficking may have access to the network of male violence resources, which in fact are not linked to criminal proceedings or to having or not having the residence or other kind of papers. And we work with specialized entities, to whom, as I said before, we should listen and work together on any approach to prostitution, to develop a specific model of dealing with trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation in the model of dealing with sexual rape that we will present in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.61.0	Thank you very much. [[Interview with the Government on the pulse of LGBTI policies]] [[300-00198/13]] And let's get to the 14th point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the impulse of the LGTBI policies, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.62.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's been a bit of a coincidence, that the interrogation at tomorrow's place is today. And so, today, that it's June 28th and that it's a day of struggle, that it's a day of demand, so I'd like to start with a very simple idea, that today is not the day of love. I think it's something that... June 28th and, actually, the whole month of June, right? We have a tendency to claim that today everyone can estimate who they want and how they want, and I would like to remind you that the day of love in Catalonia is April 23rd, which is not today. And so today is not the day to estimate who you want and who you want, and I think we should be able to move on to the next phase of the claim. In the same way that March 8th we don't want them to congratulate us, because it's not a day to celebrate for being a woman, but it's also a day to claim, today is not a day to congratulate, nor is it the day of "love is love, no matter how nice it is and what we are also in favour of everyone being who he wants and what he wants. But I'd like to start here because there's someone who loves how they want and who wants to, but it turns out that with this love, with this love, they can't rent a house; or that when they rent a house, systematically, right? He can see his rights violated. Now we're also talking about the third rental and how many women can't access housing; so it's exactly the same when part of the LGTBI collection in an obvious way – because many times, when we talk about "love is love, it turns out that when we think how we want and who we want we don't notice. And, therefore, this discrimination, this violation of the right to housing, it turns out that they can also pass through the fact that you can't hang a flag of the arch of Sant Martí, an LGTBI flag, on your balcony. So, we're no longer talking about how you feel about who you want and what you want, but about a right of speech, which is the right to housing. That we already know that it's a very fragile right, in our country, not just for people in the LGTBI collection, but it's a more than violated right, right? That there's someone who wants to market with a phone book. But it turns out that many people in the LGTBI collection, when they want to land a pes, when they want to buy a pes – if they can afford –, they can't, because they discriminate against them. It turns out that there is also someone who loves who wants and who loves how they want, but when there is a war in their country, they can't create the border because the state doesn't recognize their identity, and so they're violating it – we're talking about another set of fundamental rights – the right to migrate and the right to asylum. We talk, in this concrete case – very recently, right? – of all trans people who have tried to create the border seeking asylum, seeking a life in a country in which the phonenal rights of the people of the LGTBI collection are not violated, and it turns out that, on arriving at the border, they do not recognize the asylum. Or in the case, for example, of the war of Ukraine, it turns out that many trans women could not leave the country because the departure of men was forbidden, of the country, and, therefore, they did not recognize their gender identity. Therefore, we are no longer talking, another time, of whom we estimate and how we estimate, but of the fundamental rights. There is also who loves and who wants to, but it turns out that there is a very high rate of unemployment – more than eighty_per_cent – of people who are trans or even suffering discrimination in the workplace to be who they are. And, therefore, we are no longer speaking, another time, to estimate who we want and how we want, but we are talking about the right to the labour market and also to have a working life without discrimination. In this sense, we know that once in the government the trans SOC was set aside for the first time, that, precisely according to some data – that sometimes the data are essential to be able to make public policies – we saw that there was a rate of more than eighty per cent of the trans people, also linked to the debate that the deputy Grau and the councilwoman Verge have just had on sexual work, that much of the women who engage in prostitution are migrated and many of them are also trans women... So we are talking about that, if there is a situation of eighty per cent, we have a problem; not with the esteem, not with the love and love, not with whom we think and what we think, no? , but who we are in this context. There's also who cares about who wants and spends absolutely all his life coming out of the closet constantly; every time they change around they have to come out of the closet again, because the heteronorm doesn't touch everything, and, therefore, from time to time, they have to come out of the closet again, right? many people have to take this step another time to explain that, effectively, they are part of the LGTBI collection. There is also who cares about and who wants to, however, when entering through the door of gynaecology or urology, has problems with the proper attention to their sexuality or their identity. And, in fact, when it comes to inclusive language, non-binari language – and ‘pregnant people and menstrual people –... we are not trying to invisibly anyone, but we are trying to ensure that trans people who have to access gynaecology or urology, and not enter their gender identity, but their sexuality, therefore, have this careful attention. So, another time, we're not talking about how we feel and who we feel. I'm following with broken phone rights. There is someone who appreciates how and who wants to, but it turns out that the foreign law, which also came out in the previous debate, makes it impossible to regularize their situation, and therefore we can never talk about a document that could have been made a registrar sex change. Many times we talk about gene self-determination and we forget that, for a lot of gene self-determination that we have, that we can legislate with the skills that we have, it turns out that if you don't have a Spanish identity document – because the foreign law already knows how it is, that all lights are institutional racism–..., so obviously, much so that we legislate on gene self-determination, we're leaving a lot of people behind. And we're talking about school, we're talking about television, we're talking about advertising, we're talking about culture, right? , that, systematically, many people who feel like they want to, who feel like they want to, do not feel represented; that their sexuality, their life, their existence, their lives, are not represented at all, nor in this chamber. And these are some of the examples of people who already think they want to, who already think they want to, and who still don't have the right to use the phone, because we're talking about housing, we're talking about health, we're talking about education, we're talking about representativeness; we're talking about asylum, we're talking about migration, we're talking about the labor market. And, therefore, we're not talking about love. So it doesn't go away, it doesn't count as who you want. And in some cases, it's obvious that there are attacks to show how and who you think, but the problems of the LGTBI collection are more beyond this mantra than we've ever seen before. And you're obvious, huh? I insist, don't let's get rid of our speech, because it's true that for the street, probably more in the case of men, they get physical assaults, right? – the data so they say –..., it is obvious that when you show..., when you come out of the closet, when you express what you think and how you feel, also reprehensible attacks, but we can't just stay here. This legislature began with a novelty: the rank of the LGTBI policies was higher and had a department with a specificity. And it's been a year, and many of the public policies that the Catalan LGTBI law already pointed out, on 11/2014, have been unfolding. We have a working group on the LGTBI-fóbia – you know, she will advise – and many of the questions that arise there do not have so much to see with the model as with the resources that have historically been allocated to the deployment of this law, do we not? And, therefore, we would like to ask you about the changes that have assumed in the public policies LGTBI the fact of the creation of the department and also the general direction. Why, beyond the model, do I think it's a success model, that it's a pioneering model, that Catalonia has always put LGBTI public policies at the forefront of many other public policies in the rest of the State, right? ...we have been pioneers, but we are aware that there is never enough. And, therefore, we would like to ask you today... the government spokesman this morning has also made an announcement, and therefore we would like to ask you about this deployment of the law, about new laws, about new legislation, and, above all, for what entities in this working group are asking, which is not so much a theme to the model as resources. And, therefore, as we know they are in this direction, we would like to ask you, therefore, in which line they are, in which direction, and what is the increase in the resources of the public policies LGTBI.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.63.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.64.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Díaz, therefore, the new legislature has marked a turning point in the importance of the LGTBI policies for the government, for the creation of a whole structure from the council, a specific general direction, but also for the increase of resources. And, concretely, the resources earmarked specifically for the LGTBI policies have tripled, but there is another advantage: that when it comes to the table of the big ones as the council, as the general direction, then it is much easier than this activation of resources and services also remains cross-cutting to other departments. In which areas are we prioritizing these resources or how is it being noticed or can you feel, as you asked me? I will talk about the field of attention and repair; second place, the field of prevention, and third place, the field of recognition. For what it does to the area of attention to LGBTI people and to ensure reparation when their rights are violated, here is a very important reinforcement, specifically, on the SAI network, which is distributed throughout the territory and has a central function of information, attention, follow-up, embedded from the legal advisory board until the psychological, psychosocial follow-up – the processing of health cards with the name felt, for example – or the derivation to other services – as can be the units of attention to the salvation of trans people. As I said..., not only the resources of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, but the joint government deployed in a cross-cutting political way LGTBI. The salvation of trans people forms part of the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights. And with regard to transit units, so, in the past year, two more have been opened and there are already six branches of the country. So we've contributed, haven't we? , is advancing in the territorial expansion of the Transit units. Returning to the network, there are currently one hundred and eleven SAIs within the territory, one hundred and eleven full-service services. In the past year four have not been opened and is predicting that in short only four more have been opened. And this process of territorial expansion of the network had to be accompanied by the process of consolidation and reinforcement of resources. And we did, above all, because we are a municipalist government and we understand that equality policies, if they do not reach the level closest to the citizenry, that they are in the locals, so, do not land, do not have in practice a de facto effectiveness. And why there can be this local landing, with the new funding framework of the Department of Equality and Feminisms at the local level, which we are multiplying by six – which is hardly – the resources that had been allocated to it until that moment. And, with this funding multiplying by itself the SAI line of local funding, above all, we prioritize the stability of professional teams so that they can have full-time dedication. And this full-time dedication, what does it involve? It's more hours of attention, I mean more specialization. Because we now found that in many cases the person who attended the SAI could be the same person who attended the SIAD, of the information services and attention to the women, or had other functions in its consistor. Therefore, more hours of attention, more specialization, more ability also to accompany the municipalities in the design and implementation of the local plans LGTBI, which is also one of the main functions of the SAI. At the same time, the SAI network now has a very important follow-up with the creation of the Protection and Promotion Body for the Equality of Treatment and Non-Discrimination, because all the complaints that refer to facts classified in Law 11/2014 and that can be sanctioned by administrative means will be derived from the body. Therefore, we also increase this specialization and this ability to act more forcefully. And both Law 11/2014 and Law 19/20, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, are already issuing sanctioners by administrative means. In cases where the discriminatory fact is not collected into the law or when the person does not want to report, but wants to give knowledge so that he does not go back to another person..., in this case it is the General Directorate of Public Policies LGTBI, which acts. And, in any case, both the body of equal treatment and non-discrimination as the Directorate General are acting on the basis of the principles of restorative justice and guarantee of non-discrimination; therefore, articulating work with the different departments or public administrations to introduce the changes that guarantee this non-repetition. Also part of this increase in resources we have intended to guarantee the right to repair before attacks for LGTBI-fóbia that can be produced and that requires some kind of medical intervention not covered by the basic health care portfolio. What we understand here is that these rapes are structural, and therefore the answer must be public, too, in the right to reparation. In these cases, this coverage does not require identification of the aggressor, because many times we know that it is not possible, and with independence from "judicial times. If there is judgment, trig as long as you trig, then it will be the government that will rescue the aggressor. Secondly, we are investing more and more resources in prevention and awareness policies. This, on one side, has to do with continuing training for public workers with Law 11/2014, but also with Law 19/20. In the past year, for example, eight-hundred people have already rejected training in this law, including the entire SAI network. We have also created a graduate of LGTBI policies in public management, because we need to train more professionals in the care of LGBTBI people so that they can deploy as effectively as possible these laws. We have also started training the private sector through micro-courses in managing LGTBI diversity for both direct teams and company staff, and we are working with Pimec to spread it in the sector. We continue to develop guidelines, instructions, protocols to prevent LGTB-phobia situations and to give tools to public employees and employees. In the fortnight of instruments of this type already in force in areas such as education, universities, prison centres, will soon incorporate them in areas such as DGAIA, large people's residential centres or the monitoring of administration and enterprises for which it does work places, because work places are a safe space for trans people. As you recalled earlier, this call for employment for trans-entities with no jobs..., more than 4_million for the call, which, while being an eminent measure of material socioeconomic character, also has a component of awareness, which is to eradicate all stereotypes and prejudices in relation to trans-entities. And we are working with the Department of Education to integrate more and better into the curriculum sex-affective education, sexuality education, because you can work with full normality what is the diversity of sexual orientations and gender identities. We are also driving – I go to the third block – new recognition policies with this government agreement that we approve March because people can express their identity to generate free, self-identified, and the name felt in all the government's administrative documents, the Administration of the Generality and its affiliated bodies, as well as properly collect their family diversity. Simultaneously, we collaborate with civil society organisations and research groups to make sexual and genera diversity visible and to recover the memory of struggles to absolve the rights that have been recognized today. And, in the call for joint grants from the Department of Equality and Feminisms to entities, we also want to make an additional effort to give support, don't we? , to contribute more and better to supporting the projects of these entities that do an untiring, priceless job. And, finally, in recognition of the reality of trans people, we have on the way to drafting a forward draft of the Catalan Trans Law, which we work from the open and honest dialog, to incorporate the contributions of the specific working group of the National Council LGTBI, but also to incorporate the contributions that come from the self-organisation of the trans people's collections that are also being made at this time. These three blocks of policies are indispensable, because we know that not all the rights are fully guaranteed yet, because the LGTBI-fóbia is still alive, as you pointed out before. Because that's not love, that's human rights, and that's why June 28 is an international day for liberation. And because today more than ever these policies are also a matter of contention in front of the hate speeches, like the ones we feel too often in this room, who are responsible for the increase in hate crimes, here and there, like this weekend in Oslo, and we are deeply sorry and condemn this. And that's why it's worth remembering Judith Butler's words of last April, with the Catalonia International Prize: "What is the view of the nation that the anti-gender groups have, that they see threats for those who pursue equality, freedom, justice, a future without rapes or the right to walk the street without? This is the visit of a few Members of this House, but ours, that of the rest of the groups, that of the vast majority of Catalan society, is that of a country that wants to be fairer, freer, more democratic, and that is aware that rights are exercised collectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-28-3301.65.0	Thank you very much. So let's suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you.
