ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in full is included in the ple folder, and according to Article 164 of the Rules will be replaced this same morning. There are five Members who have delegated their vote for this plenary session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] And, unfortunately, before we start the session with the order of the day, I have to communicate them four nine victims of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, the murder of Maria Rosa, on April 7th in Barcelona; Africa, on April 15th in Vilanova del Camí; Nataliya and Barbara, who are mother and daughter, on April 19th in Lloret de Mar. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes and reiterate the commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia to eradicate any form of violence against women and also to age for its record. In accordance with the Parliament's duel protocol against masclistic rapes approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence this noon, in suspending the session, to the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] On the other hand, according to the resolution 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the collection of migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, from the beginning of this year there are a total of 566 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. And also a_seventy entering for the Canary Islands. [[Declaration of the Assembly of Speakers Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of political espionage that has suffered various people linked to independence]] [[401-00015/13]] Before I begin, I will read the statement approved by the Board of Spokespersons, which condemns the political espionage suffered by various people linked to independence and which was adopted, as I say, by the Board of Spokespersons on April 20, 2022. « The North American media The New Yorker has recently published an investigation prepared for Citizen Lab, the Canadian laboratory that studies information controls that affect internet security and threaten human rights. This scandal hardly affects the Parliament of Catalonia. From the same president, Laura Borràs, to the deputies Josep Maria Jové, Meritxell Serret, Albert Batet, Josep Rius, Elsa Artadi, Quim Jubert, Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas and Carles Riera. It also affects the Government of the Generalitat, since the last four presidents of the Generalitat – the current one, Pere Aragonès, and its three predecessors: Quim Torra, Carles Puigdemont and Artur Mas – have been spying on the mark of the " Catalangate ". In this report it is a retrospect that the 60-five almeny mobiles linked to Catalan independence have suffered infections with the spy program known as Pegasus; a programmer developed for the Israeli company NSO, which is only coming to governmental stages; that is, to states. Two years ago he became acquainted with the situation of espionage to different Catalan political leaders, including the then president of this chamber, Roger Torrent, together with a deputy, Ernest Maragall, and former deputy Anna Gabriel, who had already engaged in a lawsuit and taken legal action from the Parliament itself. Now this situation has shown that it is about a large-scale case, a capital scandal that attacks democracy itself. The illegal, anti-democratic and systemic use of the past five years of the Pegasus programmer has been directed against policies of the independence movement, activists for human rights, journalists and lawyers. It is obvious that, in this case, the use of this programmer remains framed in the general case against independence started in 2017, to counter a peaceful, civic and democratic movement. This situation has to be concerned with the combination of all democratic forces for the obvious violation of rights, especially for which it guarantees democratic expression and avoids authoritarian, illegal and illegitimate abuse against any political dissent. All democratic ideas must be able to defend themselves freely, without civil and political rights being violated for ideological reasons. This case of political espionage implies a flagrant violation of the fundamental rights, both individual and collective, which is counter to the democratic and freedom, civil and political values that the European Union must represent and preserve. For all these reasons, the Parliament of Catalonia condemns political espionage that involves a flagrant violation of recognized human rights, both internally and internationally, such as the right to privacy or the right to secrecy of communications. It expresses its support and all its solidarity to the sixty-five people who until today are known to have suffered this political espionage in the "Catalangate " march. It requires the Government of the State to investigate with the utmost speed and transparency the organs involved, to give the necessary explanations and to assume the responsibilities at all levels that come before this illegal practice of espionage against political dissent – in this case, against members of the Catalan independence movement. It calls for the urgent adoption by the State of measures to eradicate anti-democratic political espionage and thus ensure that no person can be a victim of espionage and persecution to defend a political project. It reaffirms its democratic commitment to the rights and freedoms of citizens, and defends that it is in accordance with international treaties and agreements for the protection of human rights and civil and political rights. And, finally, it commits itself to protecting and preserving the rights of spy persons, among which various deputies of this chamber, and to characterizing themselves in the causes that arise from the complaints of victims, among other acts. Signed at the Palau del Parlament, April 21, 2022, for Malta Vilalta, spokesman of Esquerra Republicana ; Mònica Sales, spokesman of Junts for Catalonia ; Eulàlia Reguant, spokesman of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, and David Cid, spokesman of En Comú Pode. [[Greetings.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.2.0	President, for an appeal under the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 90.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.3.0	And for what article do you want to shout at the observation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.4.0	Articles 39, due to the requirement of impartiality of the President of the Parliament, who must conduct the debates impartially...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.5.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.6.0	No, just a moment... [[Joan García González cleaves the president.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.7.0	No, I can't let him finish, Mr. Joan García; I can't let him finish, because he asked me for a call to observe the Rule for Rule 90 and then made a call...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.8.0	It's just that I haven't just explained it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.9.0	... in Article 39.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.10.0	I haven't just explained it. There are more articles.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.11.0	Article 39 has been explained many times. For Article 169.2, the statements of the Board of Spokespersons may be read by the President of the Plenary. So we've been doing it long enough for this legislature. So, that's what we've done now. You don't have the word, Mr. Martín Blanco. [[Greetings.]] You don't have the word, Mr. Martín Blanco. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco dissenteix.]] I told you for what article I can do what I just did and you don't... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco dissenteix.]] No, no, According to 169.2 I can read a statement as I just did. And so, as far as I can do, I did. You don't have the word and we'll go to the next point of the order of the day. [[Widow's remorse.]] A little bit of this... [[Matías Alonso Ruiz blames the president.]] Please, be quiet in the hall. Mr. Alonso, ask them to silence or cry to order. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz continues to challenge the president.]] It's a statement from the Spokesman's Board and for Article 169.2 I can read it and so I did. If you continue to disturb the order of the cambra you will have to expel [[Matías Alonso Ruiz continues to challenge the president.]] I'll tell you what, Mr. Alonso. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz continues to challenge the president.]] Third warning, Mr. Alonso. Leave the room. Abandon the hemicle, Mr. Alonso. [[Greetings. Matías Alonso Ruiz continues to challenge the president.]] I read the article that I can do what I'm doing. Leave the room, Mr. Alonso. [[Widow's remorse.]] Leave the room and do it quietly, please. [[Some applause.]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. And before going to the next item on the agenda, I will read Article 169.2, which says: "The statements of the Parliament of Catalonia are called the accords for the president and for the Board of Spokesmen. These statements are published in the Butlletí Oficial del Parlament de Catalunya, and are read in plenary session or in the corresponding committee, according to what the Bureau determines. And that's what we did. And we move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Greetings.]] A copy of this statement was made, and as was communicated to the parliamentary groups, the Bureau yesterday unanimously agreed to the proposal because the plenary agreed to file a complaint on behalf of the Parliament before the judicial authorities under Article 259 of the Criminal Court Act and the rest of the applicable standards for acts which have been demonstrated in relation to the Pegasus espionage programme and which could constitute criminal offences. In accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, I propose that the agenda for this plenary session be extended to include the vote on this proposal from the Bureau to the plenary. If there is no objection, let's include this point in the order of the day before starting the control session. Can you please approve this incorporation by consent? [[Pause.]] Okay. Otherwise, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. They're asking the secretaries to come to the Bureau in order to vote. Thank you. [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on an amendment to the agenda. The vote begins. With 111 votes in favour and 17 against, the agenda was changed. [[Motion for a resolution on the formulation of a complaint by parties related to the Pegasus espionage programme]] [[395-00329/13]] Let us now turn to the debate and vote on the proposal, so that the House agrees to lodge a complaint on behalf of the Parliament before the judicial authorities for events related to the programmer Pegasus. If parliamentary groups ask for the word, they can use it for three minutes per group representative. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Are you asking for the word? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So, is there anyone on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units? One from the front. Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.12.0	Thank you, President. The Rules must be completed even in these matters. President, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, on recent occasions a report which has been thought to have revived, as is normal, the interest in information and also the social concern for certain parties which, if they are certain, are known for some time – it is true that with some implications that add the content of this report – and it is subject to the plenary's consideration that Parliament as such, as the institution, makes a complaint to clarify, contribute also to clarifying the facts, and hypothetically also the responsibilities, arising from the contents of this report and from other information that may appear. We will vote in favour of it, as we voted in favour of when the item was raised at the Bureau, as we voted in favour of the year 2020, with this information that was also supported in the statement of the Board of Spokespersons, and as we voted in favour of similar initiatives – not in this case of interposition of complaints, but rather of the formation of commissions of inquiry – in the year 2014, with regard to the fact that there was then the case of Cesicat, of alleged espionage of persons related to social movements, journalists and politicians, and as we voted in favour of the formation of a commission of inquiry on behalf of persons related to social movements, journalists and politicians, and as we voted in favour also, in May 2018, of the formation of a commission of inquiry on the assumption of a furgonation that is directed to the imprisoning of documents. Therefore, we are absolutely in favour of clarifying the facts. We are also in favour of establishing the responsibilities that need to be established once the facts have been clarified. And we are in favour of the fact that the public powers in a state of law must always stick to the conjunction of order to the guarantees of any procedure, and it seems to me that this must always be valid, it must be valid in any circumstance. Therefore, we are opposed to any communication intervention that I do not count on legal employment and that I do not count on judicial authority and judicial supervision. It seems to me that these are the three elements that our order and any other around us establish so that they can be considered acceptable communications interventions. Outside of that, we are radically against it, as we have always been, and we will contribute..., we have done a gesture, for example, to unlock the constitution of the committee of secret subjects, of official secrets to the Congress of Deputies. We believe that this is the area in which explanations can be given, beyond the extent to which those affected or institutions such as ours can contribute, through their actions, to the acclaimment of the facts and to the establishment of responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.13.0	Then, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.14.0	Thank you, President. Look, what we really denounce is the espionage of children in our classrooms and our courtyards for speaking in Spanish. [[Greetings.]] What we denounce is the social, economic, and insecure emergence of our esteemed region, Catalonia, because of its evil government. And we denounce separatism... that separatism that ruins our beloved region, divides the Catalan population and, of course, betrays our history. Gentlemen of the PSC, separatism is not combated by spying on it, separatism is combated by detaching that of the institutions, detaching that of the influence of the Government of Spain, and illegalizing that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.15.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.16.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia: the most important case of political espionage of the 21st century on an international scale. And this illegal espionage has an executor arm, and it's called CNI. And this political espionage has one responsible: the Spanish State. And, in the past, the Government of the State and its President, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. A government and a president who neither assumes the truth nor assumes any responsibility. And, before that, this Parliament – and not just the independents, but everyone who defends democracy – must demand, without conditions or nuances – and this is not negotiable either place or with anyone – accountability, truthfulness, transparency and the consequences with the clearances and resignations that are needed, and with the mechanisms and commitments of non-repetition that are effective, accompanied by verification instruments. That is why we believe that this Parliament must also take all the political and judicial measures necessary to confront this tendency to the fundamental rights. That is why we will vote in favour of the initiative we are debating and voting on today. But we also need to undertake and promote all policy measures to clarify and respond to these facts. Therefore, investigation commissions to institutions to put on lights and tachographs. This doesn't acclaim in secret commissions. This would make it clear to the public and transparently, and this is said to be parliamentary investigations. And obviously – obviously – from our country we feel that we can neither cooperate nor collaborate with a Spanish state that violates democratic fundamental rights. There is no reason, years against it, to participate in the establishment of this institutional and legal framework. On the contrary, there is a need for non-cooperation, non-cooperation and, therefore, to halt and freeze the political relationship of cooperation with the Spanish State. And it's not worth it today to crash for a song and tomorrow to correct for the back door to ask for some Olympic winter games. Therefore, before Pegasus and "Catalangate", democratic rights; before a state that does not respect them, self-determination. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.17.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the word now has the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. First of all, the obvious first thing we want to do is to denounce, once again, the democratic anomaly that espionage represents to more than six hundred people linked to the independence movement with the Pegasus program; it is directly intolerable. And that is why, like the parliamentary group, like In Comú Pode, we want to make explicit our support for any action, for all political and judicial initiatives that are aimed at clarifying the whole truth. The political differences are convinced that they cannot be used to pose a profile before what is obviously an attack of the deep state against the state of law. And here I want to be clear on this idea: this is not a conflict between Catalonia and the State; this is a conflict between democrats and conspirators, between, as I say, the state of law and the deep state. And, as you know, the political space that I represent is part of the central government and, therefore, as part of the central government, I do mean that we are the first interested in knowing the whole truth about this case. Because, moreover, political espionage, as has already been said, is a flagrant violation of the fundamental rights and, therefore, for us there is no more way than, in the first place, investigations, all investigations that come and go, and reach the end. From here, purifying responsibilities – and yes, that obviously also means resigning – and, obviously also, as in the third step, taking all the measures, putting all the mechanisms out of the way so that they never again pass seeming facts. So, like I said, it doesn't. First, investigate; second, debug responsibilities, with resignations, and third place, also, all mechanisms to prevent reappearing parties from repeating themselves. And I would want to end up with a couple of thoughts. The first is that before these facts, of extreme gravity, political unity is important. Because that's not about independence or independence; that's clearly about democracy. And the second thought that I would also like to raise: I think that they should not lose sight of the fact that the responsibility for political espionage must rest on those responsible, on those who have promoted, on those who have spied. So, I don't think I'd feel it, I think we'd hurt, I think we'd make a mistake if we were to pay the city a spy they haven't done. Here what we have is a deep state that has emancipated from the state of law, and, therefore, what I would not have felt is to make the citizens pay for Pegasus' broken dishes and to prevent them from putting in place measures that are needed to cope with the crisis. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.19.0	Then, in the name of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.20.0	Ladies and gentlemen, what a shame for Parliament, what a shame for the President, what a shame for the Bureau and what a shame for the lawyers. Because here you read an article lying to the cameras. His sense has been distorted. The spokesman of my parliamentary group has been deprived of his voice and one of my members has been expelled from my group by lying, lying about the content of Article 169.2, which I will now read: "The statements of the Parliament of Catalonia are unanimously agreed to by the Board of Portaveus and the President. These statements are published in the official button. What the president has read. But for the unanimous statements of the Board of Spokespersons, because in article 169.3 it says, it speaks of statements of Spokespersons, but they are not read in the board nor published. And that is why half of this House has not applauded and the other half has, because it was a party statement by the President that the power to do so has been wrongly arrogated and has deprived the Member who denounced him of his word. And it is shameful that the members of the Bureau of the Socialist Party have not raised their voices here, Mr Pedret. And it is shameful that the lawyers allowed the misrepresentation of the Rules of Procedure with the expulsion of a deputy and the deprivation of speech to a spokesman. [[Some applause.]] If you do this in Parliament, what are you not going to cheat on the so-called "Catalangate", of your invention, of the investigation of a separatist researcher in a university? And, furthermore, I tell you more, and you don't deserve any more comment on this issue – you don't deserve any more comment. If you among your ranks have several of your leaders condemned for sedition and embezzlement, if you from your ranks have broken the constitutional consensus and tried to rattle more than half of the Catalans, what less than the National Intelligence Centre, the state intelligence services, take letters on the matter and, under the law of this democratic state, control those specific people who carry out these activities against general coexistence. That's really legal. What is not legal is what is done in Catalonia. What is not legal is to spend the money of all Catalans on the things you spend on it: to gain independence. Pay for it from your pockets, don't use public money. That is why we must control from the intelligence services, with the control of the law, with judicial control if it is necessary, not indiscriminately, not doing political espionage, but it is normal for it to be done. Therefore, I do not say that it has been done, but, if it had been done, what less. And this is what the socialists should do, and not let those people who want to destroy the state enter the Committee on State Secrets, but the patriotism of socialism..., we have seen it here today too, how they are letting themselves be overwhelmed in Parliament and how they let us be overwhelmed by the Members of the opposition. What a shame for Parliament! [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.21.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.22.0	Thank you very much, President. It is up to us to make a decision here today on the following question: should the Parliament of Catalonia as an institution file a complaint about the alleged espionage to separatist leaders? It is a question that is easily answered with another: did the Parliament denounce as an institution when the information pointed to the espionage of the Mossos to constitutionalist politicians? He didn't. Well, we demand the same deal for everyone. Anyone who feels harmed on an individual basis has the entire right of the world to seek justice, as did several constitutionalist politicians at the time. But the institution that represents everyone must be left out. Having clarified this evidence of Perogrullo, I would like to share some reflections that directly challenge the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain. You were allegedly ordered to investigate, according to you in a legal manner and under judicial supervision, your own government partners. But were we not left with you that the distension had arrived and that there was no more danger? But had we not remained that with you the independenceists had become as good as by the art of magic and that they just wanted to dialogue? Day - to - Day Dialogue and Night Spying? They have deluded the whole of Spain by deliberately hiding that their own government partners were still in activities that required investigation under judicial protection. And that's very serious. What is even more serious is the disturbing question that floats in the environment: if we are to investigate you under judicial supervision, something which I certainly do not doubt, how is it possible that you intend to put yourself in the Committee on Official Secrets? Mr. Salvador Illa, immediately break any agreement with those who continue to conspire against democracy and coexistence in Spain, because they continue, and you know it; and Pedro Sánchez, I don't even tell you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.23.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mònica Sales MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.24.0	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President, and thank you also for the firmness and for making possible this agreement of yesterday's table, which allows us the Ple of the Parliament of Catalonia, exercising its sovereignty, to vote on this complaint. The gravity of the facts is asking all of us, all of us who are democrats. That is why we have demanded from the first day, from the first moment, that all the responsibilities arising from this case be cleared. Not to feel questioned is to be complicit in the maximum violation of rights of sixty-five people, at the moment, who have been spied on, among which there is the president and deputies of this chamber, the president and members of the government, also the president and the government in exile. Our unconditional support. The silence of Madrid, by the government of Pedro Sánchez, is a scandal. No measure, no prosecution action, no willingness to know who is responsible for this crime. The days pass and must, as a matter of urgency, initiate a thorough investigation at all levels, an open commission that appeals to all of us without distinction. We've said it these days: either commission or complicity. This disconcert that is now shown by some of Madrid can only make it effective. Normalize spying on independence? Normalize the use of a programmer who can only hold government stations to spy on journalists, teachers, lawyers, university professors, to attack independence? Normalizing a smokescreen that argues that people have been spied on by independent judicial decisions? Purifying responsibilities is an obligation. And that's why today we read this statement from the Spokesman's Board of Complaint, which we have also signed together. To act in a coordinated manner with international influence as well. You've got independent Catalan affectives. And tomorrow? Europe sees that it is flagrantly violating the fundamental rights with a spying without limits, and it must position itself; yes, it must also. All this long list of spies who work for a noble cause, the independence of Catalonia..., would share that beautiful phrase of the « recently passed and already enyorat par Josep Massot and Muntaner : « I think it is more useful to work for others than not to work for one. And they won't put up with us, spying on us or violating our rights. We will continue to work for the others with firmness and conviction that a better country is what Catalonia needs to be a state of law and to stop belonging to this Spain full of defective democracy that acts with non-existent democracy. Investigating "Catalangate is the last opportunity that the most progressive government in history, PSOE and Podemos, has, to demonstrate that preserving human rights in Spain is not merely rhetorical, but reality. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done, President. The violation of human rights cannot be taught in state secrets. Therefore, commission or complicity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.25.0	And finally, on behalf of the Republican Left Group, Mr Jordi Orobig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.26.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Trying to lower the tension that some people always get used to wearing in these plenary sessions, so we could remember that there is that phrase, right? "Roger Torrent with you started it all, huh? He started with President Torrent, continued with Councilman Maragall, continued with Anna Gabriel, and today up to sixty-five people who have in common or claim that Catalonia can democratically absolve an independent state or that they are in its orbit of trusted people. In this case, we are talking about lawyers who articulate their legal defense, we are talking about journalists, we are even talking about university professors, who, I insist, have in common to be part of a group of people who see that they are very dangerous and that everyone..., man could call it political dissent. And we take this decision to go to court, not because we trust it very much, but because it is the logical and rational step in a state of law and because it is the planned step to get where justice really lies, which is in European jurisdiction, in the Court of Justice of Human Rights. And all those who are worried about legality, who are worried about them right, aren't they? the application, therefore, such as an article of the Rules of Procedure, comply with Article 8.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights or Article 18.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which provides for the secrecy of communications and which, in any case, it is obvious that you can intervene by means of judicial authority. But we are all aware that there is no judicial authority that can allow for interference from the abstinence of persons who are object to these acts of espionage. As well as the tools that have been used, they allow us to enter the maximum intimacy of any one of us. We all know that these mobile devices that we all carry to our buttocks almost shelter the noranta_per_cent of all the privatity of our lives. And, therefore, intrusion into all these aspects is an exorbitant authority that cannot be mastered in any case in the right. And, in this case, legal actions are more than justifiable. We left first of the ignorance of reality, to listen to a minister of defense say he doesn't know who the New Yorker is. I suppose the Washington Post does know who it is. And I understand that this obeys that the clipping of the Ministry of Defense only went to El Alcazar and some press... some similar press, right? But in any case, the rest, the allusion of communication in this sense has triggered, first, an explicit recognition of the CNI of these escorts, saying that they were engaged in judicial resolution – according to the Supreme's sources, denying that this authority exists – and for us it is clear that we are going to turn on the dark, that as all the deputies of this chamber do not speak in favour of what we are voting for, all are part of the problem and not of the solution, and that all those who, in their day, therefore, are born throughout all the reasons of the somicament, right? because they had violated their rights, what they are doing, in short, with their manifestations in their vote is recognizing that they are part of those who use any tool to fight against the rights of others to ease freedom. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.27.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the formulation of a complaint for events related to the Pegasus espionage programme. The vote begins. The proposal was adopted with 112 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. Therefore, this complaint will be filed for the related parties...Ai, 17 nos – sorry –; 112 votes in favour and 17 votes against. Therefore, this complaint will be filed with the events related to the programmer Pegasus and "Catalangate". [[Ask the government about the control of resources to fight the covid]] [[310-00267/13]] Let's go, now, to the first point of the order of the day, ask them with an oral answer. He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the control of resources to combat the covid. The question is posed by Mrs Laia Estrada, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.28.0	Yeah. The Social Rights Council gave 7,8_millions of public euros to a number of large people's residences between April 2020 and September 2021, according to a journalistic investigation by Elisenda Colell, Jesús Albalat and Francisco José Moya. These moneys were intended theoretically to reserve places to accommodate residents with covetous other smaller residences, but they were never occupied. Counselor, how do you intend to make it possible to rescue these misguided or embezzled public resources?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.29.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.30.0	Thank you very much, President. So look, these resources that you say are awkward and how we think about rescuing them are due to the fact that on July 7, 2020, this Parliament was made a monogramme ple in order to be able to find out who the measures were to be to combat this situation of the coward. Specifically, in its point number 18.f says: "Having alternate equipments prepared and available to transfer to it, if necessary, people of affected residences for covid sprouts. And then... if this was July 7th, July 28th, a decree was issued by law, Decree 29/2020, where it was precisely, therefore, that it was as if these reservations were to be made and also these payments. Just remind him that both the Ple and the law decree did not have a vote against this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.31.0	To answer the question, you have the word Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.32.0	The question is that out of 10,6_million euros, eighty_per_cent was not used for anything, because eighty_per_cent of places were empty. Miri, he took advantage of the state of alarm to award these resources by sorting out these beneficial residencies in the market of the buffer and, later, they did not worry about what was in it, of these moneys, of these public resources. Nor can we hold the certainty that you will manage to hire the extra staff needed in these residences. Neither the current government nor that of the previous legislature wanted to clean up responsibilities in relation to the harmful management of the Pandemic Mark's residences, but, moreover, they have allowed there to be those who, above all, benefited from it. They have allowed, above all, there are those who benefit from a truly dramatic situation. Interestingly, who benefited from these resources were the great groups we all know. To give an example, of the 10,6_million euros public delivered to these residences, 1,7_millions will 'lsva embutxacar el groupe L' Onada. And it is an authentic shame that after the rescue to decide that the elderly were not hospitalized, but that they are kept in residences, above, paid for some places that were never occupied, while Ishi said, to the smaller residences, that there were no places, that there was no place and therefore they could not move their malalta people. This is a new scene that connects to all accumulated in relation to the management of residences during the pandemic. And it's a scandal, we insist, that once again evidences the perversion of the public-private concert model and the need for residents to be managed directly at once. The least in this case, counsel, is to clarify the facts, purify responsibilities and demand the bailout of public money. And, by the way, we ask you to take advantage of and intervene once and for all those residences that are being misexamined to your residents and that we manage them directly and permanently. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.33.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Miri, from the first wave..., and more than I want to remember a few facts that..., sometimes surprised, but it seems as if we forget what exactly happened in the months of March, April, June, July 2020, when during these pandemic waves nearly two thousand people died; where the contagious waves were different in all the different waves and the measures that had to be taken so much from the Department of Social Rights, but above all under the supervision of the Department of Health, they were different, depending, also, on these needs. The contracts, as you said, refer to the dinosaur devices, and during this time they managed to move up to 1,367 people. They were devices which were not regarded as simply empty places, but were reserved places in order to be able to detach those residences which, for their singularities, could not make the different additions, the different separations from their own residences and which, I insist, are approved measures in this Parliament and, moreover, also approved through a decree. Buffer seats have also been varied depending on the needs. If in the first wave, therefore, it took about a thousand_100 buffer places, at these times we have seventy-three per case, in case there is again some kind of rebound. And they have adapted in function, I insist, of these onades and in function, also, of the needs of the sector. Not just that. Moreover, when it was decided which were to be the residences, it was done according to certain criteria; among other things, territorialization or the possibilities of their own residences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.35.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full to the measures planned to give support to the Catalan industry and businesses. [[Asks the Government about the measures planned to give support to Catalan industry and businesses]] [[310-00263/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.36.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, what measures does the Government intend to take to support Catalan industry and companies?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.37.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.38.0	Well, thank you, President. Member, here are two dimensions that we need to take into account. One is the conjunctural, the problems that directly affect the country's industries today and which have to do with the combination of the effects of the cove and the situation caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. And the more far-reaching effects, the deeper the elements..., the more structural dimension, which, of course, also forms part of the department's political agenda. It has a central element in the plans of the Department of Enterprise and Work, which is very much concrete with the national pact for industry, which is the central element that directs the entire reindustrialisation policy of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.39.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.40.0	Yes; look, counselor, according to the latest data from the Property Registry, Catalonia is again a leader in corporate flight for the fifth consecutive year. Precisely since separatism had the great idea of placing us all in the greatest political and legal uncertainty in recent history. He threatened Junqueras with paralyzing the Catalan economy and he certainly did. In fact, it's the only thing you've accomplished to date. The problem is that you continue to dig into that decay well which is the process. Investments remain unanticipated and companies continue to march. His plan to recover the economy has shown the same effectiveness as his plan to declare independence, i.e. none. And you keep promising political revolutions, but you are unable to adopt a single measure that favours the Catalan economy. And the big recipe they sell us to reverse this whole situation, so, it's the usual one, the one to create more taxes. In case we didn't have enough to be the autonomous community that has the most own taxes and in case paying the most expensive IRPF in all of Spain didn't seem to you enough, now you have taken out of the sleeve another tax, the result of the negotiations with the commons, who are fans of economic discouragement. There is nothing more to see in what situation they are leaving to Barcelona. In this case, it is a tax on economic activities that generate greenhouse gases, that is, a tax on industries, Mr Councillor, which is going to favour relocations and which is going to end up with thousands of unemployed workers. Companies need incentives, no more taxes. And the workers are already tired of their policies of impoverishment. Catalonia no longer needs its own taxes. What we have to do is to eliminate those, as, for example, the Madrid Community has done. And I insist, we also need leaders who know how to manage well, and in your case let me question it. How, if not, do they explain, for example, having rejected the extension of the airport, the constant hindrances to the Winter Olympics or the recent loss of Volkswagen's battery factory? But, well, don't despair, counselor, that with worse data to the former Economic Adviser they made him president of the Generalitat. So do not lose faith, which seems that separatism likes to reward mismanagement. Who does not like to reward the Catalans, that we are already tired, I insist, of that decadence in which we have only been involved with your mismanagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.41.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.42.0	Congresswoman, for a moment I had the hope that you really wanted to talk about industry and that you wanted to have a debate, the debate that companies in the country deserve. And no, it has fallen, as always, in the delusional speech that begins to sweep things up to end in the land that only interests you and which you always want to talk about, it's about industry or it's about anything else. I was talking about dice. Let's talk about dice, and fly. We are talking, for example, about the study of the College of Economists of Catalonia, which, as you know, is doing a study to find out who the concerns of the companies in the country are. Do you know which are the three elements that worry economists the most and, therefore, an authoritative view of the country's businesses? So the price escalation of the light, the lack of sub-administration and price escalation also of the first materials and the fiscal deficit. Of these three, two, Congresswoman, they have much to see with the governments that have presided over what is now and at this point is their party. Therefore, the elements that concern the country's business fabric have to do with conjunctural issues– and here we have deployed 3,182_million euros in aid–, but also with substantive elements, as in the past, that will be concrete with the national pact for industry, that which is to make the transition to this model of reindustrialisation of the modern, clean, sustainable and digital country, that among other things will succeed in reducing CO2 emissions and at the same time maintain the competitiveness of our businesses, that means making compatible the struggle against climate change and the economic growth that is shared by everyone. In any case, what we're doing is deploying the national pact for industry, reindustrialisation and a law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.43.0	Time's up, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.44.0	...of climate change that you voted for, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on reintegration policies. [[Ask the Government about reintegration policies]] [[310-00260/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joaquim Jubert of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.46.0	Good morning. It's been many years since Raimon sang that night is dark. In Catalonia we believe in the respect and protection of the fundamental rights, with special relevance for the right of defence, ideological freedom and the secrecy of communications, along with the principles of legality. And that is why, she advises, justice in Catalonia does not have among its tools illegal escorts to lawyers or other personalities, as we are discovering that they are current in Spain, buying spy programs and misguided public funds, Mr. Carrizosa, with the money of all, for so much that spies do not believe in the unity of Spain and legitimately aspire to the exercise of the right of self-determination and independence of our country. The guiding principles of the justice system in Catalonia consider it a weakness of the system. Its function must be eminently restorative, giving tools for the social reintegration of internals with measures of alternating compliments of penises and a continuous effort of better equipment and training of professionals working there. The system runs faults, because it's true that until we've had political prisoners in prison they haven't been the object of society's attention. The priority of the department, as you explained to the committee, is to age for human rights and for people taken in its full size, because the object is not the gain, but rehabilitation and reintegration. We understand that you always say that we arrest them are a first-class public service, as are the schools or hospitals. Beyond the better aspects, than surely there is, from the department fire a bet to reinforce the policies that are fan of the Cire. With what we want to be a country of progress, where it has been reinserted not from vulnerable persons but from people who have been expelled from the system, it is a reality, I ask you, will advise: what do you intend to do to promote the reinsertion of people who have been convicted? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.47.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Deputy Jubert, thank you very much for the question. Indeed, the Catalan prison model, the model of execution of criminal measures, revolves in rehabilitation for reintegration, with active policies of formation, occupation, insertion, in order to be able to recover these people who have had a bad step and to be able to reintegrate them into society. These policies from the department with a special emphasis and we want to continue working on them, so we bet decisively because it complements the maximum number of criminal measures outside the prison. We start from the base that arrested her, the deprivation of liberty, must be the last resort. And so what we want to do is to enhance alternative and restorative criminal measures, in collaboration with the courts, so that they can guarantee a more effective response to the sentence's compliment and, at the same time, guarantee reintegration and obviously avoid recidivism. As more compliments in freedom, more reinsertion, less recidivism. And so, from the Department of Justice, we want to work to promote these 8,300 alternative criminal measures that are now being completed outside the prisons. They think there's a community of eight thousand people. As a result, more alternative criminal measures have been implemented than deprivation of liberty. Therefore, we must continue on this path. And in order to achieve this, we must convey to the courts the message that the compliment of the alternative criminal measures agreed upon are complicable. Therefore, in the first place, we must lower this delay that there must be eight months to be able to execute these alternative criminal measures. I what? So with a plate of rock. A shoc plan consisting of measures to be taken for three years, by import of one-million euros every three years, so that the delay in complimenting does not come to sixty days. And how do we do that? So, first of all, by increasing format programs – that's basic – for convicted people. Secondly, increasing the number of criminal enforcement delegates who wish to compliment these criminal measures. And, in the third place, seeking more complicity both in the municipal world and in entities of the third sector, to have more resources to offer these people deprived of freedom. Because the best reintegration is, when possible, not to deprive the person of the right to freedom of speech. So many thanks for the question. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.49.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the actions relating to the places of the university degree of infirmary. [[Ask the Government about the actions related to nursing places]] [[310-00261/13]] The question is put by Mr Jordi Fàbrega, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.50.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, Catalonia is experiencing a difficult problem of availability of health professionals. The health emergence of covid-19 has shown it even more. At the Health Professional Register of the Health Department, there are currently about fifty thousand nurses and nurses, forty per cent, but more than fifty years old, with a clear tendency to the closing of the profession. Moreover, the older nurses belong to the time when ATS was attending us and, therefore, they began to work very young and many of them at the age of sixty-two opt for early retirement. It is expected that in the next five years they will retire between six thousand and eight thousand infirmaries. On the other hand, nursing staff have increased their level of study from a three-year diploma to a four-year university degree. This increased professional skills and excellence in his task has increased his portfolio of services, taking on more and more responsibilities; it is very positive, but it is more professional for the nine tasks. The latest comparative studies showed that Catalonia had a ratio of 6.2 nurses per thousand inhabitants– a rate that is still smaller in Spain, which is 5.9 – but if we are admiring the European countries, which is what we have to do, we are far from 8.8 nurses per thousand inhabitants of the Middle East. There are many studies that state that in the countries that have the most infirmaries the salvation of the people is better, and with the highest quality of life in those countries that invest in infirmary. This lack of nursing degrees is one of the problems of our current health system. And here we have to add the territorial perspective. If we find ourselves in the metropolitan area, imagine how we are in rural areas. As a matter of urgency, the Health Department has increased the hiring of nursing professionals during the pandemic; professionals who have already been structurally and many of them come from different autonomous communities in Spain or other countries. But the solution at long or medium term is to increase the training offer and train more professionals at our universities. And do it with a territorial view: we need professional formats in our home. The Department of Research and Universities, together with the Department of Health, announced last week an increase of about six hundred places of the degree of infirmary for the coming course. That is why, she advises, we want to ask from Juntes for Catalonia how it is planned to make this increase so necessary. And let's talk about how from the Pyrenees we are working in a coordinated way between all the valleys and all the assistive devices in order to be able to offer this degree of infirmary to the High Pyrenees and Aran, in a teaching unit of the Pyrenees, depending on the University of Lleida, as requested; a vital strategic project to guarantee the assistance to the Pyrenees. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.51.0	To answer, has the word Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.52.0	Good morning, President. President, counselors, deputies, the first one I want to do is express my support for the researchers, university professors of the knowledge system of Catalonia. And, therefore, they will always have the support of the Department of Research and Universities. [[Greetings.]] Congressman Fàbrega knows well, because he has been mayor, he is a pedigree, he is a congressman..., he explained to us very well what is the lack, what is the lack of the ration of nursing staff we have in Catalonia. And the truth is that last week we presented an act, together with Councillor Argimon, to the Paranimf of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Barcelona, entitled "For a university system connected with the salvation of the country. More and better training. Comply with one of the governing agreements of this legislature with this increase of places in the degree of infirmary; these close to six hundred places, which increase a twenty-i-five_per_cent the existing places, which is a necessary increment, but not enough. I would like to highlight with five three aspects we have vertebrate this increase of places. First, the criteria of equity. What does that mean? So that the eighty_per_cent of the places that increase are public places, so that, for the first time, there is an increase in the offer of public places towards the private. The second, the territorial vertebrate criteria. This increase in seats will take place in Barcelona, Girona, Lleida, Tarragona, Manresa, Igualada, Vic, Tortosa, Badalona, Sabadell, l'Hospitalet, Esplugues and Sant Cugat, and I also hope well soon Penedès and the Pyrenees. The second criterion is quality. The increase in places does not have to be at the expense of the quality of the formation, because we are concerned and responsible for the first theoretical hour of the first course at the last practical hour of the fourth course. And, in this sense, there is a group of better nursing students to improve the contents. And so, when this report comes in, we'll apply it, too. And the third is this complicity. This agreement is to renew the complicity of the university system with the country, because, in the end, universities are to make the country better and to make people's lives better. Therefore, I hope that the Pirinaeus, too, and the Penedess will soon be possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.53.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the updating of the strategy "Mes Catalunya to the world. [[Ask the Government about the update of the strategy «Mes Catalunya al mondo]] [[310-00262/13]] The question is posed by the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.54.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. I'm sure people will not find it hard to steal a few seconds of the question to get our condolences, the condolences of this Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, to the whole Benedictine community of Montserrat, to all the family and friends and to all those whom we esteemed Father Massot, a human referent, an intellectual referent, a cultural referent. And very especially also the condol to this national treasure which is Publications of the Abbey of Montserrat, which he directed for fifty-one years, which is the oldest editorial in Europe. Our condol. [[Greetings.]] I, counselor, now yes. He explained it to us in full, he explained it to us in committee: one of the strategies of his department was this « More Catalonia to the world, this explaining that this Parliament, the most independent parliament of history, that had given place to this government thanks to fifty-two_per_cent, therefore, continued its task to the outside with more delegations, with more journeys, with more explanations, to explain that the repte of Catalonia is unbeatable, that it is a civic, peaceful and democratic stake based on rights, based on essential democratic principles. They didn't make it easy. The Spanish brand has not easily put it there. We didn't put it easy here either. You explained it very well: it is not easy to go around the world when there is a marketing project, as you defined it, which is this non-existent trading table, from which you had to go explaining exactly what it was. Time has given him reason. And, therefore, he was able to explain... And the facts have given him the right in the sense that it is just like Rajoy governments, that Sánchez governments, the Spanish government respects Catalonia does what best it can do, that it is judicializing, that it is repressing and that it is spying. Indeed, you last week were, if I am not mistaken, Slovakia and Austria. At the beginning of this week he was in Belgium. We would very much like to know, in addition to the program, what inputs have been received on this issue. And, finally, we also want to congratulate you, because all that you do is spend it in a year that in a day and a half the Spanish government spends on weapons. All his advice does is spend the Spanish State in a day and a half on weapons. It is very difficult for those who ask little or say 'no' to war and to support, stabilize or form coalitions with the Spanish Government. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.55.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.56.0	Thank you, President. Member, a response this week that deals with international issues: I think you should start celebrating the defeat of Mrs Le Pen in France. Macron's victory is in the interest of Europe and is therefore in the interest of Catalonia. And those who, like me, are Europeans and Atlantists, any project that weakens the European Union or transatlantic relations are not good. So let us celebrate this victory. And I'm going to talk about the project "More Catalonia to the world, which the Member knows well, because we discussed it and we talked about it and we worked it together with all the members of the external committee. And this project is what you're planning before I finish this year, so let's start covering, from forty-four to sixty-three countries, with the direct presence of government delegations. It's what will make us have delegations with him in Japan, Korea, South Africa, Morocco, Andorra and Brazil, and offices in Quebec, Dublin and Ljubljana. Senegal's already out, we already have a delegate, don't we? , which is also putting on the market and in operation one of these delegations which are importantly foreseen in this plan. And these days, from the point of view of the Central European delegation, I have been able to hold important meetings with the executive, with the Austrian and Slovak legislature; also with three regions, with which we will work on a long term as the country. We were able to celebrate the Sant Jordi. This has been one of the many celebrations that we have made of the world, because it is one of the great contributions to the immaterial heritage of humanity that we make from Catalonia, one hundred and fifty in forty countries. But beyond that, the one that has held all these political meetings of this trip in common and the one that has held in common the multiple press attentions – because the press is looking at Catalonia – was, therefore, precisely the "Catalangate". And the "Catalangate" is international. You're feeling it, 'cause he's been spying on five countries. It is because it is a flagrant case affecting members of the European Parliament, Spanish and Catalan, and because it forms part of a global debate. And here the international dimension is important and we will denounce it to all the institutions, because it is never a coincidence that what happens at the international level, therefore, has consequences in Madrid. It was not that that day in concrete Pedro Sánchez came to the palace of the High School to present the pardons, the same day that the Council of Europe discussed a very relevant resolution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.57.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the construction of the new hospital in Tortosa. [[Ask the Government about the construction of the new hospital in Tortosa (Baix Ebre)]] [[310-00257/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joaquim Paladella of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. A few weeks ago, the plenary of this Parliament agreed, without a vote against, to promote the construction of a new hospital in Tortosa, close to years of indefinacy between whether to remodel and expand the existing centre or build a new hospital. The plenary also urged the Department of Health to present with the greatest celerity the project of this new health centre, since it is an urgent need for the people of the Lands of the Ebre. Yesterday, by surprise, you visited Tortosa – the fate of fate – and made an announcement that perhaps pretended to be the answer to today's question. For what we have been able to know, if that is the answer, it does not fit what Parliament approved. That's why I'm going to ask him today: what does the government have in mind to comply with Parliament's agreement?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.59.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.60.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Congressman. What is clear and clear is that the Green Hospital of the Belt requires urgent action. We cannot wait any longer and, from this point of view, yesterday what we have already announced, after, also, of months of work in the department, also with the same hospital and the consistor, is the first phase of an expansion of new work, 5,500_metres_squares, that will involve us operating, we cabinets, etc., that we will bid in project and work this study– this study– and that we will be finished in midday of the year 25. For another band, yesterday, at yesterday's meeting, it was offered some land together that we would study viability and that we would then be able to give more details.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.61.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Joaquim Paladella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.62.0	Counselor, the agreement for this chamber made clear the need to build a new hospital and present the project of this new equipment with the highest celerity. Yesterday, you announced an enlargement of the Verge de la Cinta, while indicating that you would start the processes and drafting of the project of the new hospital in 2025. This remodeling is nothing more than an attempt to stifle a problem, with a minimum possible expense, a solution for today and that mortgages the future and that will have an obvious negative impact on tomorrow's service. The announcement to initiate the drafting procedures of the project for the year 2025, with all due respect, counselor, is not credible, since the expression "the year 2025 has not seen it anyone. The urgent need to remodel or update the facilities of the Verge de la Cinta demonstrates the precariousness of the current infrastructure, but in no case must it represent an excuse, a fresco or a delay for the construction of the new hospital. Setting up the project's drafting board for the coming years does not meet Parliament's demand for'major speed'; if not, it's all the opposite. Our parliamentary group asks you to take advantage of this question to announce that this year is the beginning of the new hospital project. You make a fool of yourself with what's a deceptive announcement. Announce a credit rating to draft the new hospital's studies and projects. Start processing for this contract. Work with the assembly to make it real in a reasonable time. But don't tell us it'll start 2025. That's not credible. You can't even make us believe it. And what's harder: not even you can assure us that it will be that way. Counselor, will you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.63.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.64.0	Mr. Deputy, look, what we were also explaining yesterday is that of what is the analysis of pros and cons of a complete enlargement or of a new hospital, the department and all the technical part also opts for a new hospital. Why? So for a very simple reason: because the enlargement will not just give all the solutions that the hospital needs, because we have to remodel a whole new hospital..., sorry, current, that it is 25,000_metres_squares, that it is forty-six years old, and that it has not been, surely, very well maintained, and that, from this point of view, also another point of importance is that we remain without reserve space. Therefore, we would make a very important reversal in an accessible location and, from this point of view, we would not have a hospital for the next fifty years. So, new hospital, yes. You're the one who's in a hurry. Hey, listen, I'm wearing a couple of months. I remember he put up a sign, a sign – year 2006 – in La Farinera, saying: "Here will go the new hospital of Verge de la Cinta. Therefore, gifts'm [[applause]] Only a few months, from seven years to a few months, listen. Then, ask me one more thing we can't do, which is start writing a project if we don't have real land yet. The Generality needs to have some given land in order to be able to do – in order to be able to do – a project. I won't be able to make a project worth millions of dollars for the department, if then, for whatever reason, there's no good land. Because they will say to us: "Listen, you have raised the money. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the actions to deal with the damage caused by frost to Lleida's coffers. [[Ask the Government about the actions to deal with the damage caused by the ice creams in Lleida's coffers]] [[310-00258/13]] The question is posed by Mr Óscar Ordeig, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.66.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, yesterday was a historic day; a historic day and very exciting for the rural world, for agriculture and I would say for the country's conjunct. We watched, many of us here, at the premiere of the award-winning film in Berlin, Alcarrás; a pedagogical portrait, an exciting portrait of a family, an agriculture and a territory that strives to pull forward and survive, as well as the adversities, as well as the many difficulties and sometimes also a lot of misunderstanding, the rural world unknown that it has not taken enough account and that Carla Simón has been able to project to the world and elude us to fight there; a small miracle that generates an opportunity that we have to take advantage of. We have illusions and setbacks, but we continue to have many emergencies and difficulties. We are one of Europe's most competitive food producing areas and we must take advantage of it. But at the beginning of this month, a good part of Lleida's and Pirineu's coffers have been ice-cold worse in 30 years in an April. A great disaster. Many have lost everything, you know it. The situation is unsustainable and the government must push for urgent support measures. Politics and the government, at these dramatic moments, must be on the rise. Will the government encourage, advise, direct fruit aid for ice cream in Lleida and Pirineu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.67.0	To answer the word to Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.68.0	[[The Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...and he's got it all. Mr. Ordeig, glad to hear you speak of agriculture again in this hemisphere. Obviously – you said it – at the beginning of the month of April, therefore, much of the country, but mainly Lleida's plan, suffered these frosts, historical frosts, and, obviously, the whole fruit sweetness, but also the fruit of the work and also the amethlers, suffered some brutal consequences, on some occasion including the eighty_per_cent of the production. The government, as it cannot do otherwise, and the department, is with the page, is at the side of the page. There, there will be, and more when there are extreme questions like what we're dealing with today, talking about ice cream.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.69.0	To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.70.0	Counselor, I am also very happy to debate with you about agriculture, but what you have said is word, word, word, and concreteness. We don't understand why the government hasn't announced, after almost one month, concrete measures, concrete help in a disaster like we've experienced. The Generalitat at these times – and if she doesn't do it now, she'll tell me when she'll do it – she'll have to announce direct help to the farms and families affected. Why didn't they do it? When are they gonna do it? What does it matter? The sector is asking and they have not rejected the answer. The situation is limited and if we wait more weeks we will regret the disappearance of more and more exploitations. Fifty-thousand hectares affected, the equivalent of 25,000 football camps– 25,000 football camps–, between sixty and one hundred_percent of the production affected. A devastating blow to the economy, to work places and to food – now that we are talking so much about food dependence – from our home. Therefore, to listen, to be at the side of the sector, urgent measures, agrarian assurances, and direct aids to the sector, advises, direct aids that cannot wait. Thank you very much. Check out Lleida's comarques. Visca Alcarrás. Visit the rural world. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.71.0	To answer, you have the word Counselor Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.72.0	[[The Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...we have obviously worked with Councillor Torrent, for cooperatives and for the obviously central ones. Credits increased to 100_per_cent; at these times 40_million, but we are obviously also working to expand them. Also, obviously, the whole issue of ice prevention, improves and perfects, in this case, the operating programs. But we have a problem, basically, with Spanish assurances – in this case, with Agrosure – which is absolutely well-known and very difficult. In this we are working with a working group, also with Agroassurance, sure, because the problem – you should know it – is that many of our pages and pages are found that if they had frosted the previous year, or two years before, obviously this system of insurance penalizes them. I mean, that's very important, and that's what we're working on. These days – you spoke of it – everyone, in fact, speaks of pagesia, speaks of the Lands of Ponent – this is a fate –, take off the premiere, of the premiere of Carla Simon's film, this fantastic work of art. Let me finish with two very important concepts, that of food sovereignty and that of generational replenishment. Miri, because the consequences of this episode, of the frosts that you were talking about now, went far beyond the ciphers, far beyond the hectares and also beyond the tones. Carla's film speaks to us above all about people, and speaks to us about dignity. And that for us is extremely important. The future of our camp is essential, because we also have food sovereignty, but above all we have the dignity of these people. I have no doubt that this department, as always, is on the side of the page, working directly with the page, with the agricultural organizations, little by little, and we will get out of it, of course, because the page is still beating in a dignified way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.73.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the initiation of the 2022-2023 school year. [[Ask the Government about the initiation of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[310-00259/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In the first place, I hope that I have been able to rest a few days of Holy Week, which I have also been able to take advantage of to reflect on the educational situation, on the decisions and the way in which some of these decisions have been made by their department during the last months and weeks. And, today, we have to have the pre-registration process of children, secondary and primary is over, but there are still a lot of doubts about the beginning of the next school year, which obviously concerns families. Counselor, can you confirm on which date the next school year will begin?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.75.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Niubó, the proper school year will begin at the schools on September 5th and at the institutes on September 7th. And we're moving on to school because it's a good measure for the high school. Everyone agrees. It's a good measure for the student, because it's over, it's shortening off time in the summer, and it's a good measure for the student in a vulnerable situation. It is a good measure for families, because leaving the children at the same school – family reconciliation at one hundred – leaving the children at the same time as they did until now – and going to collect them also at the same time – does not affect the working rights of our teachers, who will make the same name of teaching hours. And, therefore, we are establishing a simple procedure with professionally educated students, who will serve the student in the afternoons, and with a working group with directions we are just adjusting the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.77.0	To answer the question, you have the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.78.0	Thank you, counselor, for the answer. The truth is that we have to regret that the majority opinion of the educational community represented at the School Board, which was asking for a one-year moratorium to provide the resources and measures necessary to ensure the best functioning of educational centres, and also educational equity in relation to the day and the educational offer in the afternoons, has not been taken into account. The last time I asked him, he told me that he was still unclear, that they were discussing it, but today it is almost three months ago that the President of the Generalitat announced this advance of the calendar. So if they hadn't done it before, they had time to think about it. And ask him to answer us, so, concretely: which activities will be offered – will be extracurricular, it will be the service of an expanded fooder, it will be read... –; to whom they will direct – to all children and children or only to some –; what costs it will have for families and who will manage it – will be the joints, it will be the AFAs, it will be the addresses... –, and if we are to wait for the month of September or already for the month of June you will also guarantee this offer of reading in the evenings. The truth is, we're asking him for concrete and clear, it seems to us that he's the least we can ask for. And, on the other hand, we were surprised that yesterday you were publishing the plants; they were once again pulling for the right and, therefore, they were breaking this deal with the unions again. Actually, we don't understand how many times you have to fail because you, therefore, changed your attitude. But in any case, the unions have already asked... they said they will make new mobilizations this third quarter. We'll see what happens to the engineer of his own course. And our group, at the end of plenary, we asked him, we offered him, in fact, support for a parliamentary change, for a course of education, not just thinking about the unions, which also, but thinking about a better quality of education and also in the recovery of the working conditions of the teachers, that we remember that Catalonia is the only place where they have not done it. So that day he wouldn't answer us. I would ask you to do so today, to tell us if you have finally closed the door to the negotiation, if your government has actually decided to rule against the faculty and without considering the directions, or if there is still room, there is the door open for the negotiation and you could recover this school hour at primary and after your own course. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.79.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.80.0	Thank you, President. Member – we have commented on previous occasions – what we can't do is postpone a good measure for the student; we can't delay decisions that are good for the student. We are starting a new stage of the education system after the pandemic and we must be able to make decisions. This republican government has come to rule, it has not just come to manage. And, therefore, what we do with the September afternoons is to guarantee them for all the students – for all the students – with a hundred_per_cent of gratuity and professionally educated students. You mean we've done negotiations. It's more than just reality. The one who breaks the negotiations is the one who makes trade union set_months that are not present to talk. Those who ask for a dialogue seven months ago are not present, which is where we have to talk and agree, have made many proposals for writing and different proposals. Unions prefer confrontation to agreement, and have renounced – they have renounced – to reduce the school hour to the next course. They will not sign an agreement that repeats the school hour to the next course. And, therefore, we will continue to do our work. We'll give a response to the fourteen union complaints in this legislature, always thinking about what's good for the student. And I hope that you do not share that you are not present to speak and that you have attitudes that do not represent our masters, sabotaging acts, with disrespect for people who had worked very hard to present documents that transform the education system and make us move forward. And if it allows me, quickly, further beyond the sound we go to the fact: the coming course. You said "the coming course... The coming course reduces the rates; free child 2 for families; balanced distribution of the student with economic support from the first student; we move the calendar, which is good for the student; we do not concert the centers that separate children and children in the classroom; curriculum with transitoryity, and a bet, as has never been done, for the professional formation of this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.81.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of health workers. [[Ask the Government about the situation of health workers]] [[310-00254/13]] The question is put by Mr David Cid, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.82.0	Good morning, Counselor. On May 19, we left the use of the mask in many areas of our lives, feeling the clearest proof that we are entering a new stage of the pandemic, although it is true that hospital tickets are once again rising. Two years of applause have passed to the balconies, from millions of citizens and citizens, to our health professionals. Two years in which it has been shown that who protects us is our health care system and they are our professionals. Counselor, it's time to move from applause to real recognition. We cannot let our professionals continue to leave public health, to go to other autonomous communities, to foreign or, even more, to go to private health because they have better working conditions. Counselor, do we want to ask you what measures you intend to take to improve the working conditions of health professionals? What's the time for the merescuds to arrive? Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.83.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.84.0	Thank you, President. Member, in principle what is the best of working conditions is a priority of the department, and so we left it clear at the first appearance, on July 1st, and obviously the whole government, and so did the government's own president in his general policy debate. And from this point of view, then, in the reply, I will detail some of the measures we are taking at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.85.0	To answer that question, Mr. David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.86.0	Counselor, as my avia would say, from the saying to the fact there is a passage. I'll give you a giveaway. Do you know what is the autonomous community that devotes less resources from the health insurance to its health professionals? Catalunya. We dedicate only thirty-five percent of public health spending under our health workers; it's a deu_per_cent less than the rest of the autonomous communities, and we're the last autonomous community. I believe, Counselor, that we must stop talking about what Spain can do for us and begin to take action on what we can do, what you can do for public health in Catalonia. This same week, the representatives of the workers of the Institut Català de la Salut, who rejected in front of them their proposal of improvement or modification of working conditions. All unions have rejected the proposal made by the Catalan Health Institute. And, for another band, the Convenience of the Comprehensive Health System of Public Use of Catalonia, known as the Siscat, more than a year ago that has expired and is not yet renewed. We cannot pursue first-class and second-class professionals in our system of salvation. I read three proposals. The first is that you are directly involved in negotiating the Siscat Agreement. And it is not to say that you cannot intervene in the negotiation with the private employer, when you directly – when you directly – have negotiated and, in this case, have inaugurated the private clinic in Girona, for example, to set an example. So, when you think about getting better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.87.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.88.0	...all at once, the undersides of the public workers? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.89.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.90.0	Deputy, two things. First, pay. The increase in remuneration does not depend on Catalonia. There is a two_per_cent wage mass for the entire public worker. First element. Secondly, when you say thirty-five per cent, we dedicate it, here there is, as always, a denominator problem. The State does not have the wages of all that is the Siscat, neither of the Hospital Clínic, nor of the Hospital de Sant Pau, nor of all that is the social health part. Thirty-five_per_cent is at the ICS. And it's impossible a thirty-five percent devoted to wages– and that's what anyone who works there knows– when the hospital is left..., approximately between sixty and sixty-five percent is wages, at any hospital; the norm, ninety-two percent, to primary care; the same – the same – percentages to socio-sanitary, and very close, to mental health. This is the first element. The second element, as far as the people go. We've incorporated seven thousand professionals, five thousand of them into primary care. Agreement of the Siscat or agreement of agreement. There is a partial agreement, which is not the best, but it is a partial agreement, and which has all signed all the unions, including for the first time the Union of Metges, which had never signed – never – since the arrival of democracy a_sol– a_sol– convenient. Second element. We have started the third agreement, the third agreement table, with the ICS. Let's give it some time to see how it goes. And the third very important element is the stabilisation of professionals. At these times there will be, this year, a call of thirteen thousand, practically thirteen thousand places, of which seven thousand are supposed to be. And, therefore, here I have to thank..., but also their support – also their support – because this will make it possible to make seven_ thousand people fixed, and 22,000 people year 24, which is the most offer that has been made. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.91.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the support and impetus for Catalan culture. [[Ask the Government about the support and impulse to Catalan culture]] [[310-00264/13]] The question is put by Mrs Jenn Díaz, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.92.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Well, you know, after two years of pandemic there was a lot of joy to enjoy from a day of Sant Jordi with a certain normality. The forecast already announced that it would be a day with certain risks and complications, but it wasn't until we saw that we were aware of how far our day would be marked to memory. From the outset, we would like to show our full support to all the books and editorials that suffered the consequences of the rain and the calamarisada and that they saw all their efforts on so many days, so many days, offended. I think it's also a waste to have the generosity of so many people who wanted to make this Sant Jordi an unforgettable day. It wasn't just that they slept there, and they were able to take the time, which was a few of them, but everyone who helped and gave a hand to who needed it. And you sell them and the influx so they prove it; not everything was denied on the day of disbandment. But we wanted to profit, therefore, to give all our support. I think it is also relevant, a few days later, that among all folds, but especially from the book sector, we reflect on the day of Sant Jordi. Perhaps not immediately and not only focusing on the day of dissabte, exclusive, the Sant Jordi of 2022. But they've started making a few calls from the sector. Librarians and editors agree that this is a model, so we should rethink, and invite ourselves to do so. Beyond whether or not it rains on April 23, the universe that has been created, with all its good things and its bad things, is for a lot of people in the sector that are almost inexhaustible, until one day they can make everything go wrong. And that's why we won't have the answer. Surely, it's not an answer we have to donate from the institution. Probably not a direct competence of the Department of Culture, but it is our competence to listen to the sector, to accompany it. And in this sense, you, counsel, the diluns made a meeting with the greme, also with the chamber, in order to make an assessment of the damage. And, therefore, we would be pleased if you would explain to us how this meeting went, that in fact five cents, of this extraordinary help line, of the help to the sector that suffered the consequences of the disabate. But, as I said, it's not all bad news, and we would also like to take advantage of the international success, the good greeting that Catalan culture enjoys, yesterday with the premiere of Alcarras, but not only. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.93.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. First of all, I wanted to say that I was very happy to hear Congressman Ordeig talking to Councilwoman Jordan of Audiovisual. And this happens to us because, effectively, Catalan culture has seen a sweet moment for what it does to its international future. All just yesterday we were all in Lleida, who we were in Lleida, see Alcarras, by Carla Simon. Everyone we've been living there has been a thrilling night, with a big movie, which we know won the Golden Bear a couple months ago. But the last few weeks we have also had various exhibitions of this success. At the beginning of April, our writers participated in the London Book Fair. It's a first-tier event and it's the front door to angle translations, which is so complicated. Only a six_per_cent of the work is translated into English. So getting into this space is very, very important. A little more than two weeks ago we were in Paris, in the morning, with La Perla 29, who spent four weeks with a Catalan show at La Colline Theatre, and in the late opening of Gaudí's exhibition at the Musée d'Orsay, the first international level. Last week we were at the Venice Biennale of Art. An artist, Lara Fluxà, presented in the Catalan Pavello. Since the year 2009 the Ramon Llull Institute is in charge of making this Catalan Pavello in Venice. I want to tell you that this week we've also heard that Albert Serra's last movie is going to Canes. So, very important. Therefore, a great moment for Catalan culture in the world. But with regard to what St.Jordi is doing, what he was asking me, this year it is obvious that it was very and very special. There was a lot of gain, a lot of illusion and a lot of emotion, and the citizenry – you said so too – answered with screeching. Unfortunately, the rain affected a specific part of these efforts and illusions, and for now we know that it affected important stops in Barcelona, one in Badalona and one in Sabadell. From the same late we made contact with the sector, with the publishing sector, with the bookstore sector, so as to see how they were doing. We had a meeting last night. And, therefore, we announced some extraordinary help to these editorials and bookstores, which are not many, but the damage has remained very and very intense. But what we really need to achieve is that people don't just buy books for Sant Jordi. What we have to do is get people to buy books all year. What we have to get is that people read it all year, and, if it can be, in català. And what we've done and what we've been doing for two days...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.95.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on aid to decarbonize mobility. [[Ask the Government about aid to decarbonize mobility]] [[310-00265/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Torrentà, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.96.0	Good morning, Counselor. To complete European objectives and address the climate emergency situation, we need to take firm steps in many areas. One is decarbonization, which goes by increasing electricity in industries and also in transport. A sector, that of transport and mobility, that is the main consumer of final energy of Catalonia, and that deposes, badly and largely, of fuels derived from oil. Since this Parliament, the law of climate change has been ambitious and pioneering in establishing a full route in the legislative and fiscal deployment to complete this tape, and to equip us with a climate fund that allows new tools in this fight. On the other hand, from local administrations years ago we have been encouraging the switch to the electric vehicle by mitting bonuses in the vehicle tax, up to a seventy-five_per_cent, and also putting points of recharging in the municipality. Always demanding the import of public transport and active mobility, the mobility and automotive industry must have a future, and therefore a support from the Administration with a clear promotion and promotion of the electric vehicle; a connected electric vehicle, autonomous and tending towards a shared use, making towns and cities free of contamination and better quality of life. In this sense, there are many lines of help that have been called from the Icaen, that have gained strength thanks to the awareness and dissemination to the citizenry that promotes the department. Programs, such as Moves III, to encourage electric mobility through aid for the acquisition of electric vehicles, and also in support of the deployment of charging points, both for private as for businesses and for the Administration, which has quickly expired with more than 7,700 requests for the purchase of vehicles and more than 4,000 for charging points. It is also important to say that they can access the communities of the city in order to be able to enable points of recharging in private Community parks. In this sense, I would like to ask for its value in addressing this decarbonization, and in concrete terms the Moves III programme, and which are the proper contributions to encourage electricity transport and sustainable mobility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.97.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, advisor of Climate Action Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.98.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, you said that, didn't you? If what we're trying to do is have an energy model, then, clearly and more sustainable, we need to decarbonize mobility. Therefore, the electrification of the transport sector plays an essential role, because, as you know, so obviously represents forty-five percent of this sector. It is the main consumer, in this case, therefore, of final energy to our country. That's the point, huh? , in short, the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. We have expanded, as you said, this Moves III with 65_million euros more to boost sustainable mobility in this case with the acquisition of electric vehicles, or also with refueling points. You said so too, this expansion is possible because the 65 million we have had, so just a few months ago they have been exhausted. That means, or we want to hear it, as it should not be in any other way, that in this case, therefore, the response of the citizenry is good, and demonstrates the involvement in the challenge of the energy transition. And it also allows me to take advantage of this intervention to talk about the CO2 emissions tax on vehicles, which has been discussed in some way today. Through a decree I immediately read, if I'm not mistaken for the week I'm going to see – now I'm looking at the Economics advisor – so what we're going to do is freeze the tariffs. We will do this for this year, obviously, we understand that the context is a very timely context. Now, let's also say that – it's important that you stay very clear and I want to explain it – I want this CO2 tax freeze for this year will not mean in any case lowering the required biodiversity or climate fund. There are many examples I could give you. I'm gonna put three down, huh? , where you see these funded actions through these funds already for this year 2022. Fire prevention plan 22-25, 72_million euros, to give you an example. There are €6 million to modernise – this is a very important issue – the radar network of the Meteorological Service of Catalonia, which will also allow us to advance to very extreme episodes, of which the climate change, therefore, unfortunately, has us accustomed. And, for example, 5_million more euros in aid to subsidize, in this case, the design and implementation of the emission download areas. In short, we continue to work hard, as it cannot otherwise be, with a transition, above all, fair and green. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.99.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on road safety. [[Ask the Government about road safety]] [[310-00266/13]] The question is posed by Mr José Rodríguez, on behalf of the Grupo Parlamentari d'Esquerra Repe..., Republican.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.100.0	Thank you, President. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Link my question, a little, with the question the former partner has asked in the field of sustainable mobility. In fact, it is one of the great challenges that we have in our own years, that our cities adapt to active, sustainable and, especially, secure mobility. And that, let's say it or not, goes to reduce the space to the private motor vehicle; to ensure the safest space and mobility and, in fact, to the most used mobility, which is walking. And, therefore, priority must be given to maintaining a safer area for travellers. The stake in channeling mobility through more lanes, more lanes and, ultimately, creating more space for the private motor vehicle, to avoid congestion, is a mistake: the only one that generates is more traffic, more contamination and, unfortunately, is moving away from the objective of the Interior Department, which is zero dead to the lanes and cities of our country. For this reason, our cities and towns must adapt to a new mobility. Now, there are asymmetries in how municipalities are adapting and how they can adapt. Those who are large, who are within an interurban metropolitan plot, with a good public transport network, have more ability to adapt and adapt their mobility. But the smaller ones or those that are not in long-distance networks with a strong presence of public transport and, therefore, the mobility still more than private transport, do not have so many resources. This means that they may not be able to perform in the public space of the municipalities, such as the best of the routes of travellers, especially the crossings; pacify traffic; make urban reforms that promote safe and sustainable mobility, especially little by little and bicycle; reforms to generate zones 30; the expansion of unique platforms; create them of travellers or increase the amplitude of wishes, and, in general, a reduction of the surface intended for private vehicles. Considering that the Department of Interior also has skills in road safety and the compromise that we have fought from the Català de Transit Service for safer mobility, but also a more sustainable and more humane mobility, to look for this goal of zero deaths to our careers in our cities, as the Department of Interior intends to help these municipalities that have more difficulty adapting to this safe and sustainable mobility? How can the Department of the Interior help achieve these goals? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.101.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. Member, I want to start by saying something that we all share: I am sure that left-handedness is an unacceptable tragedy that has devastating consequences, naturally, for victims, but also for their surroundings, for their families and for society in general. And despite the fact that this year 21, in relation to the pandemic, there has been a decrease in the twenty-two per cent of people who have lost their lives as a result of accidents, continue to feel a drama and continue to feel absolutely unacceptable. And that is why we must continue to act, thinking in particular of the most vulnerable, who are motorcycles, bicycles and travellers, who account for fifty per cent of the people who lose their lives. And I need to take many more steps in many orders, and a... I thought you would actually help municipalities that can't get through their security plans, because they're small municipalities and because of lack of technicians, many times, or because of lack of media or because of lack of resources, they can't get through. And that's why we've cleared this initiative, a line of grants, which will come out this week, for groups of less than fifty thousand inhabitants; a line of five million euros, which can get to subsidize up to one hundred and fifty thousand euros in each of the assemblies. Moreover, for actions that can be complete, that should not complement with resources, the assemblies. It seems to us that the way to do things is to get the most out of people at the expense of people. This is the way to do things. And precisely because of this, we have also, in this order, reversed the closure of the transit sectors of Mataró, Mora, Igualada, Montblanc and Olot and Sant Feliu de Guíxols, because it is a claim to do things and to do them to the people. In this sense, effectively, with this line of subsidies that will be helped is the municipality and in particular the micropopulations that they can pull forward their road safety plans, which on many occasions, for different circumstances, have not been able to do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.103.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on housing policies. [[Question to the Government on Habitat Policies]] [[310-00256/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.104.0	Yeah. What is the Government's housing policy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.105.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.106.0	Thank you very much, President. So look, increase the public housing park especially dedicated to social logger, rehabilitation also of the housing and also continue to struggle for the non-exclusion of vulnerable people in their housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.107.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.108.0	Counselor, I'll answer you: none. They have been ruling for years and it is increasingly difficult to have a home or keep it. In terms of rent, there is a lack of housing available for public and private rent. Their interventionist laws punish the owners and fewer and fewer homes are rented. The discrimination of the big forks does not contribute anything. As for the purchase, you tax the purchase a ten_per_cent with ITP to then waste that money and cost the sale. There is a lack of soil to build and diligence to process rehabilitation licenses; for young people and situations of need, there is a lack of social housing. They are estimated in more than two hundred and thousand units of living that require social housing, and in Catalonia we only have two per cent of social housing, when the European average is 9.3. And the culprits are you, for your policies of promoting the occupation. Because the culprits are not the Constitutional Court, which curbs their legal barbarities, nor those you call "great forks, which only represent four_per_cent and the rest of small forks ninety_and_six; the culprits are you who have been ruling for years. But there are solutions for housing, and we are going to explain them here; from VOX we are going to offer them. First and fundamental, the first social measure: to promote the economy and stable jobs; second, to eradicate occupation; third, to increase the supply of land, except from which we should protect; fourth, to speed up the licenses for construction and rehabilitation of housing; fifth, to lower the ITP for access to housing in the sale; sixth, to increase the tax benefits of rental rents; seventh, to provide more social housing – the 1,000_million you have announced, and will not, as I say, fulfill, are not enough; we would double them to 2,000, eliminating superfluous spending – and eighth, national priority. There is a_third of social housing waiting lists that is for foreigners and this cannot be: national priority in social housing. Madam Councillor, while separatism wants to reach the unattainable, the Catalans have run out of housing. And without houses, without homes, there are no families; and without families, there is no future. Less separatism and more housing. And I take advantage of the fact that there are a few seconds left to announce that we are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court the law of housing emergency, because it is a law that does not respect private property and is deeply antisocial. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.109.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.110.0	Miri, Mr. Deputy, the main culprit in Catalonia is that we have these housing problems, among other things, is the Government of the State. The fact that Catalonia is not an independent state means that it cannot only legislate with the absolute sovereignty that the Parliament of Catalonia should allow, but that, moreover, the resources that we generate in Catalonia are not left in Catalonia, but that they go to the rest of the State and the distribution is absolutely disproportionate. Just give it some data: the housing plan at these moments brings to the Generalitat de Catalunya fifty_million euros, when ten years ago it carried almost more than twice as much. With the skills we have, what we will do is continue to legislate in the Catalonian Parliament so that we can adapt the measures to the needs of Catalans. And, at this point, what we will continue to do is build housing, housing that we will build thanks to European foundations, 160_million euros that we will have to allow; 460_million dollars that we will be able to rehabilitate habitats. We will rehabilitate more than sixty thousand habitats in the country and build more than three thousand or four thousand dwellings. And what we'll continue to do from the department, as it can't be any other way, is help every citizen who has any difficulty in being able to continue in their habitations. In this case, last year we allocated 140_million euros– 140_million euros– to help social logue; help social logue that avoided more than six thousand denunciations and that at these times also helped more than 66,000 families to be able to pay these social logues. Therefore, from the department, unfortunately with the skills we have, so we go on helping the citizens. And yes, as you said, expanding, to the extent possible, the housing of social logger. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.111.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the cultural significance of the Diada de Sant Jordi. [[Ask the Government about the cultural significance of the Diada de Sant Jordi]] [[310-00255/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.112.0	Consellera Garriga, when is it necessary for the day of Sant Jordi to be consecrated as the authentic day of all Catalans, also of those who feel neither represented nor satisfied with what you say is commemorated on September 11th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.113.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.114.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, the Diada de Sant Jordi is a slave of culture and life in the streets, a unique celebration at home and throughout the world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.115.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.116.0	Thank you. His councilman announces that he will give money to the stops of books damaged by the rain this Sant Jordi, laudable initiative. At the Ciutadans stop, our awning is almost broken by the same thing. But the greatest threat to the success of the day is not the covid or the hail, but certain rancid, treacherous and even hideous speeches in the Palau de la Generalitat. President Aragonès once again gave us the knack with which Catalonia is a populous sun and only the culture in Catalan represents it. Have you stopped to think that a populous sun can be a people who are very lonely? Do you really believe that bilingualism bites? Do you not remember the success of Catalan culture when it has been able to project itself into the world as a focus of modernity and cosmopolitanism, when the Latin American boom could be born in Barcelona and Gabriel García Márquez asked that his 100 years of solitude be translated into Catalan, as I myself have translated the Girona de Galdós? That is the glory and greatness of Catalonia, gentlemen; not his miserable hispanophobia and his nostril immersion. Look, I have here a summary of the report with which you intend to justify your policy of imposing Catalan and harassing Spanish, claiming data, for you so alarming, that more than sixty_y_five_per_cent of the current Spanish speakers are people between fifteen and twenty-nine years of age born in Catalonia. And before data I ask: what is the true language of most Catalans? Are you sure that your idea of defending Catalan by contrasting it with Spanish is not to stick yourself after shooting yourself in the foot? You, who are entertained in agreeing with the PSC a reform of the law of linguistic normalization to which you have not invited us, are afraid that our contributions will leave you in evidence? We too think that the language policy of the Generalitat is nowhere to be taken, and we need to reform it thoroughly. We are already working on our own road map, which we will make known very soon, in radical defense of bilingualism and with twenty-five percent of Spanish or Catalan in the classrooms as a starting point, not of arrival, of our ambition. Get ready, the future is open. We wait unanimously, without expelling anyone and without telling any lies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.117.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.118.0	...the president. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.119.0	To answer, the Culture Advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.120.0	Well, I guess everything, everything, we won't make it, huh? , to challenge, in reality. Sant Jordi's day is an absolutely inclusive day. The truth is that we find authors in all languages, and so I think it can't be more inclusive. As an anecdote, I found myself a youtuber in a length of an island and half where people were excited. And, actually, the book that was coming wasn't in català, from the top. What we are very concerned about and need is that people read more, which is what we were saying a while ago. People don't get the reading indexes that we'd like. In fact, despite the fact that the pandemic has managed to get the reading into the cases, we still have very low indexes and, therefore, we will do this reading and book plan, which is for everyone and we need to get to everyone. We'll do it with the whole sector, and that way we'll get people to buy us books all year. Data: Throughout the year, thirty percent of the books that are coming are in català and seventy percent in castle. Only the day of Sant Jordi is the day that the 55_percent of sales can become in català. So, we're not... the castle is more than normal. We have no difficulty with the castle. We've said it all the time. Castilian authors feel comfortable in Catalonia. This Sant Jordi was very special. There was a lot of gain, there was a lot of illusion and there was a lot of excitement. And the city responded screechingly, with authors, writers, and everyone on the street. And yes, we've got some stops that they've had... They've been very bad. They're very few, but they've had some very essential damage. And then we answered. We're going to answer, basically, because we need these editorials and books not just because they come and have their maximum tickets one day in the year..., you have to close. And this is the will of this government, that I don't have editorials or books. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.121.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the performance of the Government before the illegal occupation]] [[317-00145/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.122.0	Thank you, President. How do you appreciate your Government's action in the face of illegal occupation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.124.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman. Our Government is working, first of all, to avoid the situations that may in some cases lead to the occupation of habitats and, therefore, it has been explained before the clear stake in the matter of habitat policies of a large park of protected habitat, and, then, before actions that violate legality, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra acts at the request of the affected citizenry or on its own initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.126.0	Thank you, President. In the last legislature you passed a decree that directly protected the illegal occupation. When we announced that we would take him to the Constitutional Court, they called us "unsolidar, insensitive and added that the occupied occupied occupied only housing with speculative bank funds. How easy it is to talk about solidarity when you occupy the house with others! But, oh, my friend, how things change when you take care of it! Right? When you take care of it, even an axe takes you out for a walk. And this is not the first time we've witnessed your hypocrisy in this matter. Alfred Bosch, from Esquerra Republicana, Gemma Galdón de Podemos, were also very understanding with the occupied, until they occupied them. When they occupied them, you heard them talking and looked like the PP defending private property. But, well, let's be constructive. Precisely so that no one has to pull out an axe to protect themselves from the occupations, we have sent him a few realistic and feasible proposals that I am going to enumerate. One, immediately repeal the decree of the Generalitat on the matter. Two, a new national law that allows the occupiers to be evicted within a maximum of twelve hours, with prison sentences for violent occupiers and that the municipalities do not have to register them. Three, restructure the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps to enable them to implement these policies. As you see, Mr Aragonès, these are autonomous proposals and others from the Spanish Government, they already have something useful to talk about at their dialogue table. Stop the illegal occupation at once and stop being all day wasting your time with the same old stunts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.128.0	Thank you, President. This government and the majority of the Catalan Parliament act to protect vulnerable people, and act to protect the difficulties in accessing and maintaining housing that have hundreds of thousands of families in this country. And, obviously, illegal housing occupations also worry us and that's why it happens. It acts from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, it acts by offering mediation. It operates in the area of social services as well, working to provide housing alternatives. And we also act – we also act – because there is a clear policy before abuses of the market that are produced, like, for example, the sustained and excessive increase that there has been from the prices of the winemaker in Catalonia, which affects many families, which leaves them in a situation of extreme precariousness, at the risk of losing habitat for a change that can be produced from one year to another of the cost of maintaining the habitat. For this reason, this Parliament approved a law containing the rendering of the logger. Your performance, do you know what it was? Do you know what your performance was? To promote an unconstitutional appeal so that hundreds of thousands of families who had benefited from this measure lose the protection that this Parliament has given them. Therefore, before making proposals that you can make in other areas you have responsibilities, you are concerned about the vulnerability of hundreds of thousands of families in Catalonia, which are painted for themselves they can stay in their habitation. We will continue to work to guarantee the right to housing, the right to security and, obviously, also before illegal actions will act, applying the law, the Police of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.129.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the performance of the President of the Parliament in relation to the reading of the statement of the Board of Spokespersons and the interpretation of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia]] [[317-00147/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.130.0	Mr President, what do you think that the President of Parliament reads an article of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament deliberately distorted in order to be able to do whatever she wants from her status as President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.132.0	What seems to me to be completely entrepreneurship is the attitude of their deputies, who when there is some issue that bothers them are dedicated to setting up a game, a circus, lacking the confidence that their voters have placed in you. [[Greetings.]] I believe that the voters of Ciutadans – as I know a few – did not vote for them because they put the number to each ple when there is one thing they do not like. Have a little respect for yourself – not for us, for yourself – and stop making us ashamed of each Ple. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.133.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.134.0	All right, Mr. Aragonès, it was the right answer: to mess with Ciutadans so as not to mess with the lady who says Esquerra..., how did you say? I don't know what about Catalonia, or... I don't know. Well, that's fine – that's fine. Look, radicalisms proliferate in the West and we've seen it in the French elections. Very recently Macron was imposed on Le Pen for a little while. And you are the president of the Republican Left of Catalonia, a party that is recidivist in violating constitutions: that of 1931, that of 1978, under the regime of republic, under the regime of monarchy... You have a coalition government with a party that has as its leader a fugitive from Justice who, like Le Pen, like VOX, like Trump, like other separatist and far-right parties, has tried to pact with Putin and have not made ascos to destabilize European democracies. We are in a parliament in which the misguided president lies, expels, deprives Members of the floor without the opposition party blinking, which has a presence at the Bureau, without the lawyers altering the minimum. This is because democracy is defended from the official posts when they do what they have to do, here, that does not rule. Look, Ciutadans, that you alter so much, we are a pro-system party, but from outside the system. We might as well be like the CUP, an anti-system party, but properly accommodated in the system. Look, perhaps we would also do better by adopting the logic of the power of the Socialist Party, which is silent today, which wants to leave you, those who want to destroy the state, to enter into the Commission of Official Secrets of the State, which agree with the populism of the left, with the separatists, with the phylotterrorists, all by power. Look, I can make an effort to understand the frustration and anger of many citizens who end up voting for options like yours – extremists, rupturists, left-wing populists, right-wings, separatists – but I think we need to stop this destructive drift. And I am convinced that in Catalonia we will achieve this, and that the agreement is for the Conservatives, the Socialists and the Liberals to agree here too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.135.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.136.0	Thank you, President. Fix you, Mr. Carrizosa, who has criticized everyone in this room except the extreme right. [[Greetings.]] I think it has become very clear; it has become very clear who you work for as your allies, because, moreover, there is agreement in other parliaments. In this it does not impact, because the citizens of Catalonia have not given them the confidence. And I think that, go on, with your attitude, that makes us all feel ashamed, they'll go on for a long time without giving them confidence. So when the opponent is wrong, don't warn him. Keep it up. Congratulations. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.137.0	He asked the President of the General Council for an oral reply on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality whether the Government will accompany the Parliament in the task of the commission of inquiry into the pederasty in England]] [[317-00146/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.138.0	Thank you, President. President, this late vote in this Parliament on the creation of the commission against sexual abuse of children by the Catholic Church, which we have been pushing since Comú Podemos, also with the Republican Left and with the CUP. And, of course, the first one I'd want to do is to thank the entire business that they've done these years of follow-up and also of denunciation. And also, if I may, I would like to ask the parliamentary groups of this unanimous chamber at the time of taking this initiative forward, because this is not Catholic or non-Catholic, it is not straight or left; this is true and it is also from the rights of infants. We're talking about having the opportunity for Catalonia to pioneer all over the state at the time of launching a commission that would basically allow us three things. The first is that the Catholic Church has the obligation to compare in its parliament and give all explanations. The second is that they facilitate all the documentation on pederasty, which has been stored for so many years. And the third would be to get some conclusions that, if they got out, we could bring to the prosecution and that would also allow us to put mechanisms in place so that these facts will never be repeated again. And, before this creation of the committee, what we want to know is whether the Government of the Generality will accompany Parliament in its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.140.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, from the Government of Catalonia we will not only accompany Parliament to everything that you have asked of us. Our willingness to work with this committee is absolute, because we are talking about very hard things that have happened... that were done systematically, in some cases, and that affect the most unprotected of our society, that are the children, especially in the environment where they should be as protected as possible: in the educational environment, in the environment where they are cared for. So what has happened in the past obviously needs to be investigated, but we must continue to work for abuses that are still committed today. And, therefore, in this sense, we will continue to deploy integrated units dealing with sexual abuse in minors – it is the Barnahus project. In fact, all the actions have already begun the center of these characteristics in Tarragona. In fact, the 15th of February began the works. In fact, the Barnahus Tarragona has attended, in which it brings of existence, 363 infants, sixty of these the first months of 2022. Therefore, it is important to look at the past, to go to the end – we will work with everything we need – but it also has to be used, among other things, to repair the victims of past abuses, but to ensure that there is no future. Therefore, the maximum commitment of the Government, of all the departments and of all the public workers of Catalonia in this sense. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.141.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.142.0	So thank you very much, President, for your statements, for the information you have just given us. Actually, they're serious, and all the resources are needed. We will also insist that the resources, the support of the Government of the Generality must also be directed towards victims; from a band, to which they have already denounced, but also to those who, from the creation of this commission, therefore start to do so, that, doubtless, they will need psychological and legal support and support. We all have to go to one. And I just want to end up saying that I think today is an important day, it can be an important day, first, because we make Catalonia a pioneer, referring to the whole state; we place it at the levels of France, of Austria, of the United States, which have already created this type of commission. And, above all, I think it's an important day for survivors, for victims, because we're starting to rescue them from something that should never have been produced. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.144.0	Briefly, honourable Member. As I said, we are at the disposal of this parliamentary committee to work on everything you need. It's important that they come out in the light... obviously, always from respect for victims; that always put victims in the center. Any action, commission or investigation must be extremely sensitive to the victims of these abuses, avoiding re-victimization processes. And, therefore, we will have to be very curious and we will have to act with maximum..., compromise absolutely to clarify the truth, but also with maximum responsibility and sensitivity. Therefore, as I said, important not only to repair the victims of yesterday's abuses, but also to ensure that neither today nor in the future, so they do not feel unprotected, as they have felt, drawings of thousands of people in our country far from the last decades. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.145.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat for an oral answer on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the concreteness of the response and the consequences with the Government the State before the use of the spy program Pegasus against independence and political dissent]] [[317-00152/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.146.0	Thank you, President. President, today we have begun the plenary denouncing the illegal, anti-democratic and systemic use of the spy program Pegasus on the part of the State, in the marc, as far as we know, of the general cause against independence. Faced with this flagrant violation of rights and persecution of political dissent, La Moncloa's response, a few minutes ago, was to play the violin, offer smoke curtains under the law of secrecy and little more. A few minutes ago, the warden of the harpsichords, Margarita Robles, recognized the use of this programmer, so as to spy on independence. So far, your Government's response can be summarized in the words, first of all, of the Vice President, who said that he will not normalize relations with a repressive state, or in his words, that he said that this case of espionage and the way in which the Government of the State faces it can have important political consequences immediately. President, I need to get out of the declaratory logic. Cal concrete. What's this? Not normal. Who are these consequences?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.147.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, we find ourselves in front of some extraordinarily heavy facts. It is the most important massive espionage of the last decades that has been known, that has been known. And, therefore, it clearly places the responsibility of transparency, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition in the roof of the Government of the State. I said that in a week we have passed that it was not about the subject – it was intended to obviate – to say that we could not comment on anything, until this very morning, in which clearly the Minister of Defence has defended this espionage that we have suffered from drawings of citizens of Catalonia, also drawings of political representatives of Catalonia, the last four presidents of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the two last presidents of the Parliament of Catalonia. And, therefore, it is obvious that this is not harmless. And how important it is to know what has happened, as well as what is the reaction of the Government of the State, responsible for the organizations that everyone points out and that would come to say that the minister has just explained clearly, that they are behind this espionage. And the reaction, until now, has been insufficient. In some cases, even contradiction. And, therefore, it is essential to go to the end. We will continue to defend the resolution of the political conflict with the State. To do so, we need some conditions that, at these times, the political reaction of the Spanish Government in the face of espionage cases has made it undonable. And, therefore, transparency, accountability and non-repetition guarantees are essential to keep moving forward on this path, in which we are compromised. But with our compromise, there's not enough. Today, the person responsible for this can't move forward is the State Government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.149.0	To answer that question, you have the word "Mrs. Regant."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.150.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Concrete. And I haven't seen her. I repeat: this morning the warden of the locksmiths at the control session replied that yes, they have spied on us, that they have spied on us for independence, that the unit of Spain passes over all the rights. And it is that, Mr President, it is obvious that the Socialist Party, the PSOE and by extension, the PSC, are not reliable partners. In the last seven days since the "Catalangate" broke out, the Spanish president played the violin. The escapees of Mr. Bolaños and Mr. Illa. And, today, Minister Margarita Robles openly acknowledge that they are spying on us. They spit over and tell us it rained. Mr. President, it's not you who freeze the dial table. We don't cheat on the lonely. The dialog table has only been a glance. The Socialist Party has no incentive to take a table because you have given up the confrontation. And they don't just have the size of them, both you and Juntes, but they have their phones punched and they know better than anyone else about the misery of independence. Faced with this evidence, they cannot continue as if in the policy of concertation with the State in harmful public policies – Olympic games, Hard Rock – and to do with what day passes, year commitment. Because this is not what the social majorities of this country claim, which is pa, sotre, traball, education and independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.151.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.152.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I believe that the answer in this situation and what we need to draw from this forward for the future must be based on the unit of action, on sharing strategy and not with toilets. I won't go in, they won't find me. With toilets between those of us who have been victims of espionage, I will not enter. Therefore, I think we must be very curious, the highest self-requirement, but we must be very curious in this matter. Because we need broad alliances. Here, obviously, today, espionage affects the independenceists, but a violation of these characteristics went much further. And any democrat should get angry. These democrats must also be allies in this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.153.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.154.0	... cause to clarify the truth and demand responsibilities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.155.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation in Catalonia. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether it will be dedicated to solving the real needs of Catalans]] [[317-00148/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.156.0	Mr Aragonès, will you stop creating smoke curtains and worry about the real needs of Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.157.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.158.0	We work every day for the real needs of all Catalans and Catalans, from the first end to the last member of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.159.0	To answer that question, Mr. Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.160.0	Mr Aragonés, your government is that of the smoke curtains, permanently used to cover the reality that Catalans suffer. One day is the Pegasus case, another the negotiating table, and the next day, his fictitious fights with Mr. Sánchez. You are more concerned to hide the real problems of Catalonia than to solve them. Problems such as the social crisis and its silence in the face of thirty_percent of Catalans at risk of social exclusion. Problems such as the degradation of our neighborhoods and their silence in the face of the breakup of the social elevator. Or problems such as the economic crisis and its silence in the face of cases of corruption that plague the partners of his government. You well know that Catalonia has lost around 4,6_per_cent of the gross domestic product because of its separatist process, and it is the region with the highest indebtedness. This translates into absolutely unsustainable waiting lists in hospitals, in social housing, which represents only two_per_cent, and the worst care for dependents. They're always the weakest ones who pay for their whims. That is the true and only transformation that has taken place in the past year. Its management denies prosperity and well-being to the middle classes and working classes, and has turned neighbourhoods where families lived peacefully into areas full of robberies, assaults and rapes. Despite your insults, Mr. Aragonès, and your ongoing attempts to demonize us, we will continue to fight for no more women in Catalonia to suffer a brutal rape like that of Igualada, and for no other foreigner to continue to walk on our streets. [[Some applause.]] That is why, Mr Aragonès, while you are travelling to Brussels to defend yourself, we are going to defend the Catalans, to denounce the insecurity of our neighbourhoods and to investigate whether their management of illegal emigration has influenced the increase in crimes. Very soon, Mr Aragonès, even if you do not believe it, we will be able to form an alternative, such as that which has already begun to walk in Castile and León, and which really cares about the real problems of the citizens. Very soon, Mr Aragonès, we will put an end to your ideological nonsense and guarantee, once and for all, the safety, well-being and prosperity of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.161.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.162.0	Thank you, President. Data before lies: Catalonia is not the most indebted community in the State. Per capita debt is major in three more territories. So it would be good if, before I say anything else, I studied it a little. Later, I would like to make one thing very clear: the problem of a violation is not the author's nationality, it is the violation. And it's putting the focus on it, not the victim's need for repair. And in the author's nationality, in his administrative situation or not, it is less serious of the situation. And, therefore, from here I want to thank the Central Unit against Sexual Assaults of the Squad Coast, which from November 1 until today continues to work there, has carried out a discreet but effective investigation that has allowed the detention of a person allegedly linked to this brutal attack and that continues the investigation. This is the way in which rape and especially sexual rape are combated: accompanying the victim, clarifying the facts, advancing with rigorous investigation and above all well done, because it has consequences on the perpetrators, as is the rest of the crime resolution tasks that make the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which in the last year has increased a 9_per_cent. Despite the warnings about insecurity, today the effectiveness of the Police of the Generality of Catalonia is bigger this year than last year. And in this, therefore, there is obviously to see the greatest endowment of resources, both human and material means to act against. And we will continue to compromise against inequalities, we will continue to compromise to put in place measures to eradicate this increase in inequality and poverty that threatens our country. For the time being, the measures we have taken here, which are effective, have always found the rebroadcast of the extreme right, because the extreme right precisely what it wants is that it produces situations of these to manipulate it to access power and to impose its authoritarian rule. And as I've always said, they won't pass.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.163.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the strong response to the Government of the State and the consequences needed in relation to the use of the spy program Pegasus against independence]] [[317-00150/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.164.0	Very honorable President... President, members of the Government, deputies and deputies, Spain is neither a democratic state nor a state of law. It ravages citizens in a referendum, undertakes political leaders or compels them to exile, pursues political dissent, ruins public charges, and massively spies on politicians, lawyers, doctors, university professors, journalists or entrepreneurs. The Spanish State violates the fundamental rights, without limits and without scruples. He is prepared to do everything he can to fight independence, which costs everything for his country, as Minister Robles acknowledged today. With Poland or Hungary. Catalanate is not the last observation and surely we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg. In front of this capital scandal, we demand explanations and responsibilities. A few days ago the revelation of « Catalanate, and Pedro Sánchez, until today, has been silent. And today he spoke and did not bring any solution or will of credible investigation; only empty words, as empty is his will of dialog. The Spanish Government does not dialogue, the Spanish Government only investigates and spies. We need to know what happened. And who made him pay for it. For this, Pedro Sánchez has to give detailed explanations. The Congress of Deputies has to set up a commission of inquiry. A commission of inquiry or complicity. The Spanish government has to clear up responsibilities. We are pleased that the Government of Catalonia has broken relations with the Spanish Government. And in this sense, President, we want to express our solidarity with you for having been spying on you, like all the people we are victims of this crime. And we want to transfer our support to act with maximum strength and unity. Continuity: You cannot continue to support a government that violates rights. Unit: there are consequences that respect the governance of the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.165.0	Time's up, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.166.0	And in this sense, president, we ask you... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.167.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.168.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, the government of Catalonia has taken a series of measures before this espionage scandal, which is a scandal that can't be tolerated in a state of law, in a state that claims to defend the rights of the citizenry. As I said earlier, the explanations so far of the Government of the State, of its ministers and of its President, have been absolutely inadequate, and in some cases insulting, as expressed for its own Minister of Defence in the past few days, and especially today. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia will denounce the violation of human rights in all international, European, state and Catalan institutions competent to protect these rights. We will ask the Council of Ministers for access to contracts of any type that may have been signed between the CNI and the NSO Group company or others that offer analytic services. We will again require the Government of the State to reform the law of official secrets, which is the law in which they engage rhetorically in order not to give clear, convincing and detailed explanations. A law of pre-constitutional official secrets, a French law is what protects the Minister of Defense today from clarifying what her responsibility is in all this: what she knows, what she ordered, who ordered it, and what happened with these data. We will continue to work to make known to the Catalan Data Protection Authority the violation of rights that has occurred, and we have entrusted to the Legal Office of the Generality the study and proposal of legal actions before police and judicial institutions, and we have made ourselves available to those public servants who, during the time they have been exercising their responsibilities or as public workers, may have been victims of this espionage. And before this situation the political response must also be the maximum unity and maximum alliances, because it is everyone's broad interest not only to clarify responsibilities, not just to assume, to ensure that it will not happen again. And there's obviously a conflict. If there isn't a conflict between Catalonia and Spain, it wouldn't be more than sixty people who have the only common connection we have with independence. When the last four presidents of the Government of Catalonia are spying, the next two presidents of the Parliament, the one who is spying is not just these people, but the institutions of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.169.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.170.0	...and this opens a difficult crisis between Catalonia and the Government of... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.171.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat for an oral reply in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the actions planned before the case of espionage against independenceists]] [[317-00151/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.172.0	Thank you, President. President, Sixty-five, sixty-five people have been spying on a program, the Pegasus, which is only coming to the states. Four presidents of the Generality, two presidents of the Parliament, deputies, deputies, political and social leaders, and lawyers and family members. All independents. And for the sake of being, someone believed in the right to be able to violate our intimacy, and to retruce, to leave evidence of their low democratic level and of those who maintain or conceal them. They want answers. We want to know, because we have all the right, what happened and who is responsible, by action or omission. And we just want to take responsibility. And we're flying now. And we demand it. Because when democracies commit violations of civil liberties as flagrant as it seems to have passed to Catalonia, it deserves a sentence. And they're not my words, it's an editorial from the Washington Post. Maybe this hoodie does sound like the one who makes you say you don't stop lying, defaming and threatening. Shame. That is why, President, we see from everything insufficient and unjustifiable the response that the Spanish Government has given in relation to the fact that the New Yorker and Citizen Lab were released. It is a very difficult case, one that tempts against the fundamental rights, that it involves a flagrant violation of the intimacy of many of us, and a flagrant violation of political and ideological freedom. It is about mass and indiscriminate, and obviously illegal, espionage against a political movement that is legal, legitimate and democratic. And no, the answer is not opaque investigations or secret commissions. There's no point in hiding in official secrets or hiding under the mantras of the right state. The solution is transparency, it's declassifying documentation, because we have to say, and they can say, what happened and who allowed it. And we want to know who read and listen to our conversations, who has pictures of our children and girls, and who they haven't done. And as the answer is more triguing, the consequences are harder; legal, obviously, but also political. There's enough lies and repression. We want answers and that it is pure responsibilities, for democratic hygiene, for political dignity, as condition and not expected to come. For all this, President, what steps do you plan to make your government respect this case of espionage? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.173.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.174.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, we're ahead of an extraordinarily hard fact. If it were between two governments of sovereign states it would produce a crisis of international dimensions. But we're not yet a state will rise – we're not yet a state will rise. I think today we defend precisely this cause, we accumulate more reason than ever to defend it. Today we have seen statements from a minister of defense who politically incapacitates her to continue in this charge and to manage what is the worst espionage scandal of later decades. The Minister of Defense says that because we defend the independence of Catalonia, a legitimate option with which we present ourselves to the elections and win them, there is a free way to get to know. That's what the Minister of Defense said to the Congress of Deputies. So the Minister of Defense should take responsibility. He has to, because the CNI was under his responsibility. If I didn't know, by incompetent, and if I did, to act in violation of the most basic democratic principles. And today's statements are extremely hard—extremely hard—that because we defend what we defend, we are free to enter our lives, to violate our intimacy, and not only with the affection that this causes us individually, that in a democracy we should defend ourselves, but also because this causes a clear violation of the integrity of the institutions of Catalonia, of this Parliament. When a deputy is a spy, he can't do his job properly. When a president is a spy, he cannot defend the interests of Catalonia, of all its citizens, of those who have voted for it and of those who have not, in all their spheres: in the political position he respects Spain, but also in the defense of social rights, civil rights, economic progress. And, therefore, it is essential that there be transparency. It's imperative that he's gone all the way. The Spanish government can declassify the documentation about who ordered this, who decided it, under what occupation, and make it public. And we need to take responsibility. And therefore, the Minister of Defence has to assume responsibilities. And if she doesn't want to do it, they make her take responsibility, because I remember there's a Spanish president, a president of the Spanish government who has attached confidence to this Minister of Defense and is not responsible with the minimum capacity for this charge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.175.0	Time's up, President. [[Greetings.]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the collaboration in the enlarging of the case of espionage against independence and support to the Government of the State]] [[317-00149/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.176.0	Madam President... Mr Aragones, I do not agree with either the direction or the progress of your government's execution. I honestly believe that it can do better. That's why I'm trying to come up with an alternative. I don't agree with your government, but I have it for a sensible man. That's why it didn't freak me out when, a few days ago, speaking of the Pegasus case, that affects you and many others of this chamber and outside this chamber – by the way, I condemn all illegal activity, frankly –... I say that it didn't freak me out when you, making comments stop from this, it got disconnected, or at least it seemed to me, of the "trumpet-it all," we vote at all, not that some people plant. That's not a problem. This attitude does not solve any problem. Blocking, for example, the validation of the plan of response to the consequences of the war in Ukraine creates problems and harms citizens. And I'm telling you, I'm addressing everyone, every group in this room. That's why, Mr. Aragones, I today, more than a question, wanted to make him an offer and a petition. The offer I make to him, frankly, on behalf of my entire group, is to collaborate in the enlarging of everything that has happened. You've got all my commitment to this. And, once it's clear, you also have my commitment to act; once it's clear what's happened, you also have my commitment to act. And the petition is, as President Tarradellas put it, "not to sweep books, to avoid falling, if possible, into obstructive and blocking politics. I'd appreciate it if you were available to me. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.177.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.178.0	Thank you very much, President. Often, in this session of control, it seems many times that it is an inquiry not to the President of the Generality, but to the parliamentary group of his party to the Congress of Deputies. His intervention was in this sense. And my question is: are we good enough to vote for government initiatives and bad enough to be spies? And that's the answer you need to clarify. [[Greetings.]] Because it's extremely hard. It's not a political dissent. It's not a misconformity. We know that you do not defend Catalonia's independence. We know they're actively against it. And you know that we defend it, and that we defend a reference. That is why we urged, the Government of the State and the Government of Catalonia, to start a negotiation process, a process to find a resolution in this political conflict, knowing its complexity. But that needs a few minimum conditions. It's very difficult to negotiate and believe that they can move forward, this negotiation, if there's evidence that they've been spying on you, and, what's worse, that the political reaction that the Spanish government is having isn't on the rise. Two days have passed since this case was published and we've already seen who was... because there's been a response from the President of the Government of the State. Therefore, I think it is absolutely insufficient. It cannot be that the Minister of the Presidency spoke of "restoring the effects and that the Minister of Defence bombards any possibility of understanding and acclaiming the situation. Therefore, the responsibility ahead of those we have worked to propose solutions, to find paths to the thick wood that there was..., the responsibility, if things don't go as we would like to see a majority of citizens added, is not mine; it is from a president of the Spanish Government who has to take clearer action, and he has to take them urgently. So far, for the time being, they're not close. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.179.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.180.0	The last thing I would like to do today is to put it to you in a compromise, but I want to say one thing: I honestly find it hard to believe that you think that I or some member of the Government of Spain have had anything to do with political espionage. Look, this is a serious, very serious issue that requires serious answers. I understand very well and empathize with the negity of the people who have appeared mentioned in this information. That's why I promised to get to the bottom of it, but we also need to not prejudice. And I also want to say something in this Parliament. I know Margarita Robles, and I know of her unequivocal compromise in defense of the state of law. I don't know what you're gonna do. I'll tell him what we'll do, what my group will do. You say you want every relationship with the Government of Spain. I want to have maximum relations with his government to solve problems in Catalonia. He knows he can count on us to solve problems in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.181.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.182.0	That the last four presidents of Catalonia and the last two presidents of the Parliament of Catalonia, among other people, have been spying on is a problem of Catalonia, Mr. Illa. If you say, as Minister of the Government of Spain, that this Government of Spain did not know anything about it, then it is already too late for there to be resignations from the people who, from organizations linked to the Government, carried out linked actions of which no one has said anything today. Therefore, precisely because you were in the Government of Spain you must go to the end, and at these times you have not gone. And that's why we're asking for a much clearer and stronger reaction. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.183.0	Time's up. [[Decree No 4/2022 of 5 April on urgent measures in the field of taxation and financing]] [[203-00022/13]] After the control session, we now move to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2022 of April 5, urgent measures in the area of taxation and financing. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Economic and Historical Councillor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. There's a word from the advisor, Mr. Jaume.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.184.0	President, Members, Members... Allow me first of all to thank you for your good disposition in the process of this decree, and also to convey my recognition in particular to the groups that will support you, but also to those who will not object to the decree being validated in this chamber. The usual speech about the sign of the time we live in is full of terms such as now ‘change,' ‘unpredictability,' ‘transformation,' ‘anxiety,' ‘insecurity. The Anglo-Saxons, who have their hands crossed at the time of proposing acronyms to condensate states of anime, have coined the concept of VUCA. VUCA corresponds to the English initials of volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. The contemporary era that we are living is, to be sure, a VUCA era. But what we've been after in the last two years, with no expert warning us before, is that there are different levels of uncertainty. We have begun to overcome a pandemic that has led the lives of 15 million people; of these, 27,000 Catalans. When we started raising our heads, a war broke out in the heart of Europe in which one of the contenders, Russia, is a nuclear power, which, moreover, is among the three world's leading producers of fossil fuels. The other country, Ukraine, is the world's sixth-largest exporter of blat, the first exporter of sunflower oil and a quarter of a civada. The last global pandemic took place more than a hundred years ago, and the war we have in Europe is the first in the history of the continent where one of the parts with atomic weapons. So, no matter what we're here, we've had a good experience that we've been kept in custody. Whatever we are here today, we have instruments and strategies to deal with situations we are living with. But we're doing it, and we're not getting out. We are learning, with pain, that stability – this disability that is so much talked about – is actually a very fragile historical condition. I want to remind you that two months ago we got out of the pandemic with reason to be optimistic. The indicators to Catalonia for GDP growth, exports, consumption and employment were recovering at a rate that even seemed unexpected to some. The country has demonstrated – it is demonstrating – that its economic resources are very solid. Catalonia has demonstrated – it is proving – that its companies, its workers and its citizens have been able to keep the country on the march very patiently. Before, however, this recovery could be passed on to families and businesses, the sacrificial war has captivated everything. And that's why since the government we have activated a set of actions, including those that you will vote in a few minutes, to contain, to the extent of our possibilities, the effects of war and post-pandemic. They are measures designed to alleviate the tax burden and to finance Catalans and Catalans. Members, before a sudden and unexpected crisis, governments must do two things. The first is to react quickly and decisively to meet the needs arising from an exceptional situation, and that is what we are doing today. This means taking emergency measures, short-term measures and, in most cases, temporary measures to help people and businesses overcome the traffic. Concrete and clear-cut measures. Measures such as the freezing of CO2 tax on vehicles, which will result in a loss in the collection of almost 91_million euros, but which will help farmers, farmers, entrepreneurs and self-employed people who are engaged in transport and distribution and, in particular, rural areas. Or measures such as the exemption from the rate of fresh fishing, with which we want to help fishermen who have to face an extraordinary rise in the price of diesel, which makes it almost impossible for them to go out to sea. Or the extension, in the third place, of the line of credit of the Catalan Institute of Finance up to 39_million euros for peppers and autonomes of the primary sector and agri-food, which are patenting these past weeks. This is the vocation of the law decree and the rest of the measures that the Department of Economy and the government's joint venture have had to end in these past weeks. As you know, our fiscal and financial margin is very limited, but, still, we have activated some actions that would significantly alleviate the burden of millions of Catalans. In addition to these conjunctural emergency measures, the responsible governments are obliged to put it in the margin of others, other structural measures. In today's decree, the law requires that there is one, which refers to the tax on the installations that affect the environment. By allocating the entire recap to finance energy transition actions. Structural measures are designed to prepare a country for future crises, to strengthen business and industrial fabric and to make us vulnerable to the future. The European Union designed the Next Generation funds precisely with this vocation, that of making Europe stronger, more resilient and more integrated, more protected against the crises to come. Speaking of Europe, we must also congratulate ourselves on the election results of President Macron and on his victory before the extreme right, because his people, France, have chosen Europe and have chosen democracy in the accounts of choosing xenophobia, authoritarianism and involvement. Returning to the European Foundation for the Structural Reforms that the country needs, I must say that they will play a transcendental role, these European Foundations, in Catalonia. I think in the last few months I've been trying to tell everyone we're playing. The European foundations are vital to the outcome of this crisis, but above all to make Catalonia a stronger and better prepared country for the future. In fact, if a good management is done, the Next Generation funds could add five points, five additional points, to the Catalan GDP between 21 and 2026, according to a recent study by the University of Barcelona. And that the Catalan economy will only grow depending on the ability we have to implement programs and reforms that the country urgently needs. And this happens, Members and Members, through a more active participation of the Generality in the co-governance of foundations and the ability to co-exist in territorial projects of European foundations. We're still in time. Mirin, you don't know how this war will end. The vast majority of Europeans, and I want to think that the vast majority of Members and Members of this House, we are very clear that there has been an illegal aggression on the part of Russia and that we should give all the support to Ukraine, but this should not make us lose sight of the fact that what interests everyone – everyone, and in particular the European countries – is that this war does not widen. I hope that, sooner than later, the reason will prevail and diplomacy will find the formula for putting the war on the ground, which is what Europe urgently needs. But, while that does not happen, ladies and gentlemen, there is the certainty that the Government of the Generality will do everything in its power to alleviate the suffering of Catalans and Catalans as a result of this human social and economic crisis. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.185.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position, and this round of words, according to which it was agreed at the later Board of Spokesmen, will be a maximum of five minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.186.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members... With this Decree Law 4/2022, of April 5, urgent measures in the tax and finance field, there is debate and vote on four concrete measures that the Government has promoted in order to face the difficult current context, according to which it is indicated in the statement of reasons of the same decree in relation to the economic effects that Roman present from the pandemic, the inflationary situation of the past months and, especially, the crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. It's every time more obvious, if they get out, that we live in a circle, as the counselor said a few minutes ago, volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous. In the past few years, the situation caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which, beyond the human consequences that it is generating – and which are, sense of doubt, the most uplifting – has been added to the effects or impacts that this conflict has caused in economic terms at the global level: immediate effects on inflation, unedited tensions in the later decades in the energy market – that, together with the imperative need to deal with climate change, it is essential to accelerate the energy change and transition towards a sustainable model – and economic and social effects that affect the familial economy. The government has put in operation a follow-up of measures in the human, educational, social spheres, and with this decree are implemented, we understand, economic measures and finance before, as I said, the complex situation in which we live. In concrete terms, the measures are limited in three cases to fiscal measures, and one fourth to a financial measure. In fiscal terms, first of all, we find as fiscal containment measures the maintenance of the CO2 tax quota in the tariffs set for 2020 – that is, its freezing, as has been said before. And in the second, he exempted him from the port tax of fresh fishing. As well as the tax measure, the increase in the tax on installations which affect the environment, in this case, for which it does the production, storage or transformation of electricity, increasing its tax type and targeting this major input to energy transformation actions, as also indicated by the advisor a few minutes ago. And, finally, the increase in the maximum global amount to be lent by the Catalan Institute of Finance to leverage loans for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed workers and agricultural enterprises, from 7 to 39 million. The four measures are positive, and we will therefore vote in favour of the validation of the decree. Notwithstanding this, we want to make it clear that these are not the measures that we have taken. The Socialists and Units Group for Forward presented a proposal to the "Alternative Government on April 1" consisting of the plan to respond to the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In this proposal, and let me say that I am taxed and financed equivalent to those of the decree, we have proposed, with exceptional character, the increase of the cent_per_cent of CO2 tax for all commercial vehicles and the maintenance of tariffs, as is done, reduced, by 20 per private vehicles during the 22nd. Also, to improve the cent_per_cent of the tax on emissions of greenhouse gases for agro-industrial activities and branches. In the area of financing, we proposed a new line of ICF credit with the aim of giving liquidity to companies and local authorities in the sectors most affected by the pandemic: agriculture, harvesting, fishing, energy and industrial. Also, in the second place, extend the return term for ICF-backed prestresses during the pandemic, initially with a minimum extension of six_months. In this way, the Government of the Generality aligns itself with the proposal of the Government of Spain to create a new line of downstream ICO and to extend its winnings. Proposals, these later ones, which we have certainly copied between the concerns and demands of the business sectors. The decree, as I said, is not, therefore, our proposals, but we will not say that they are late and bad – they are words that we mean empty, which we have often heard. We believe them to be insufficient, yes, but the gravity of the moment and of the circumstances lead us to the conviction that it is time to double the scale, not to advance tactics of the mind; not to think about who is the most happy or to break it all, but to approve the validation of this decree even though we consider it insufficient. The injured would be citizenship, and that we cannot afford either here or in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.187.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.188.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Counselor... Today, again, the government brings us a decree law to appear to do something about this serious economic situation that Catalans are suffering. It is not a decree, it is a decree – it is a decree – with a grotesque impact, because of its little impact on the Catalan economy, and it will help very little to solve the serious problem that we have ahead. In fact, in the explanation of the decree, Mr. Counsellor I think he has devoted a minute and a half to explaining the decree and then, I don't know, a few more minutes..., he has passed through France, he has gone to Russia, he has gone to Ukraine, in the end... Yes, yes, if it is okay, but it is that little has explained the decree, because girl has little, and you know it. We are facing a very serious situation and you come to me with this ridiculous and insulting decree, in short, that little is going to help in a context, as our leader of the ranks, Ignacio Garriga, has told you before, with poverty in the highest, with energy poverty triggered, with record of misery, loss of bestial purchasing power by families and bestial loss of competitiveness also by companies. Therefore, VOX is not going to support this decree, because it is a codfish, it is a ‘I want and I can't, it is a simple patch and it is a small exercise of ‘political benechedism'. Let's talk about two or three measures... or it's four, isn't it? Some seem relevant to me, I'll highlight them. On CO2 emissions tax, isn't it? , we come here... : « Let's freeze the rates. Well, we don't agree. We are in favour – and we have proposed this in a motion for a law, in a motion for a resolution – of the elimination of that tax, complete elimination; not a tariff freeze, complete elimination. It should not exist, as it does not exist in any other autonomous community of Spain, because it is confiscatory, because it does not respect the principle of 'polluter pays', because it involves double taxation, because they have put it into effect in an absolutely sluggish way and, moreover, punishes especially the most humble incomes. Therefore, we do not need a sad rate freeze. With regard to the other tax« eco..., in short, green, of these that you like so much, eh? , this is the charge of electric power production, let's see, in a context... I will tell you plainly: it is stupid, frankly, to do what you have done. That is, in a context in which energy is triggered – we have a historical record of energy, gas, fuel prices – you go and tax..., you increase the tax on nuclear power plants that generate energy. Do you think they are not going to impact this tax increase on families? Don't you realize that's a shot in the foot? Don't you realize that what you're doing is putting gasoline into the fire? Have they not appreciated that their proposal is so ridiculous that no government in the world has set it up to deal with the situation? It's just, really... And I'm hooking up with the other tax, the one that's going on, the one on CO2 emissions from the industries. Is it not helpful for all employers, the leading companies in Catalonia, to be told that there is a best risk of relocation of companies if they continue with their taxation and green voraciousness? You don't mind? It is because, then, if you don't care, you quickly come to the conclusion that it is that you don't care about the economic situation in Catalonia, you don't care about playing with the bread of many families, and that you are given to this new climate religion and everything else you care about is a radish. Well, frankly, I think things can be done better. And we ask you to bring us another decree, because this, in short, with which you are falling and with which you are going to fall, is ridiculous, is absolutely ridiculous. And what they have to do is bring in a tax and financial improvement project that includes, in short, the elimination of the two CO2 taxes, that of vehicles and that of companies. Once again lower the IRPF section for the lowest rents, which is the highest in Spain. They lower the tax on property transfers, as my colleague Juan Garriga said this morning. Eliminate at least one of the nearly twenty – among those that are approved and those that are in progress and those that are under study – own taxes that Catalonia has, which is the community, the region of Spain with more own taxes. And, really, make it a serious economic and fiscal policy and park your fiscal voraciousness. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.189.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy, the Member of Parliament, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.190.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. After all these lies around the Catalan tax system, it's a little difficult to talk about, but we're already getting used to chaining one another, the demagogic around taxes, showing that what really matters to them is the public servants of this country and the living conditions of the working class of this country. We, in this decree introduced by the Government today, will not object to approval, but we will not vote in favour of it, because we understand that it is insufficient or that it fills in an insufficiency that we have years ago poured around the debate on taxes linked to the fight against climate change, around the deployment of those taxes that were approved in this Parliament that were to be drawn up, and ultimately, on three taxes that were to be linked. In other words, it cannot be that we are talking now about the CO2 tax, that a priori or now in these circumstances it cannot seem to us that it is frozen, but that in the fund we are freezing that tax that affects the popular classes of this country mainly because the two taxes that are linked to this – the tax on the harbour emissions of large ships, known as the "creer tax, or the tax on the economic activities that generate gases with winter effects – are not developed and in action. Because then it is obvious that we have a problem: the popular classes do pay taxes linked to the fight against climate change, but, in change, big companies with enough labor to pay. So they're still out winning the old ones. And that's why, in order to fill in, it's indispensable in this will to fight climate change, but also to face the consequences of the crisis resulting from the cove and the war, that we move forward in taxes that put the focus on those that get the benefits in a crisis_mark. Because, it's true, in this decree you have one of the taxes, but we need to address the debate about what we are doing with the beliefs in this country, so that they will now be back to 100% of the work, and we also need to address who are the impacts of large companies in the environment. And it can't be that we're just talking about this to talk about what affects most of this country. Faced with the price of energy, it is good to charge energy companies, but we also address the other impacts of those that always win. That's why we're abstaining, so that we can put it in place that we understand that you're still feeling hypocrisy that we're talking a lot about the CO2 tax and we're not talking about the rest, and that we're not finally deploying a law that was a pioneer at the time, and that we're keeping our mouth shut that it was a pioneer law but that it didn't just unfold in its full fullness. With that, I'll leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.191.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.192.0	Well, good morning. In the presentation of the decree, the councillor said that it was about reacting quickly and addressing structural measures. We agree – we agree. And we also agree that the decree that is presented is oriented in this line. It may seem sufficient or insufficient to us, but it is moving in this direction, and we will vote in favour of it, as I said at the outset. And we will vote for it in coherence, because it is certain that we need to act quickly, and we understand that acting quickly is giving a message: that we need to act more. Begin, move on. And, second, for an element that we value very positively: that one of the measures incorporated in the document is one of the measures that we proposed to the meeting that we did with the Government to address the situation. And, of course, we also need to vote in favour of this, because we welcome the fact that the initiative to tax more electrical enterprises in this case, with the tax on electrical installations operating in the medium-sized sector, has to be reversed in this case, because they also recognise that the excess of benefits that these electrical undertakings have in taking advantage of the situation and a poor functioning of the energy market has to be reversed in public inputs in order to be able to perform public activities in the service of the needs we have. We would therefore vote in favour, but we also know that the decree is partial and limited. And I think the councilman knows that and the government knows that. And it will be better to act in the future with more structural and more substantive measures. Because we know that the pandemic has changed people's lives and we know that the war has changed the world we are in, and therefore there have been economic and social emergencies that we cannot let go of. And today we could say that it is necessary to embrace. All the trouble with the refugee situation... things are happening. It will be necessary to go deeper, above all, in helping local administrations to do so in the right way. I need to protect, I need to protect people, people who are going through it badly today, let's go through inflation, let's go through the situation of unsteadiness in the occupation they may be having. It also protects economic activity by helping it to change, to renew itself. I must transform, I must transform the productive economic structure in order to face the economic challenges that we have before us, and environmental ones, etc. That is why we need to strengthen the areas of social dialogue and political consensus in order to build a plan, an agreement, which gives us a comprehensive plan that allows us to face the challenges that we have before us, because they are not anything, the challenges that we have before us. And I think it's in this brand, where we have to place this decree. He's got to mark us where we're going. We need to go to a comprehensive plan that responds to the need to transform our economic and productive structure in order to face the challenges ahead, especially the environmental challenge, and around the environmental challenge we have all the energetic transformations and transformations of the product model, but also the protection of the people who in these processes of change and transition can see themselves unaffected, and will need to protect them very well. That's why I'd also like to remember that, somehow, when we're doing this debate... we're doing it a few days before May 1st, Work Day. And that's why... I, when I came over here, read the manifesto that the unions had made calling for May 1 demonstrations, and there were three slogans. Deien: price control, push wages, fight inequality. There were some of the problems we are experiencing today, not all of them, but some of the important ones in which we can act. In this price control, in this push of wages and in this fight of inequalities is where we have to see the policies of transformation that the government pulls forward at these moments. We, in this sense, have made, as in Comú Pode, a whole series of proposals in the meetings that we have held these past days with the Government, these meetings of all political groups, to place proposals for changes in energy policies, in the impulse of renewables, on mobility and on public transport that allow the model of mobility to be changed to our society favoring people, but also changing the energy dependence that we have, acting on yields, from the guaranteed return of citizens, but also with direct help to families that can cope with the increasing price that is coming and, above all, also transforming the economy of public sector empowerment. And that's why we insist that there is still more room to act in taxation to get more public tickets that allow us to make public policies to serve the economic transformations of a product model, but also to serve the better of the rights that citizens have. And let me finish with a poem, in this case, by Emilio Prados, because he says: "It is not what is broken, no, / the water that the glass has; / what is broken is the glass, / and the water to the ground is poured. I think this poetry connects with the VUCA that you placed at the beginning. And, therefore, if we do not want the water to be poured into the ground, we need to rebuild the glass, and, therefore, policies, social dialogue, public sector, public assumptions, public entrances to make public policies to serve the citizens and the economic and social reconstruction of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.193.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.194.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... I also wanted to start talking about congratulating us on Macron's victory in France. Basically because, besides, Macron and En Marche are in the Renew group, where are the European Liberals and Democrats and where are Citizens. And I think this liberal victory in France has stopped extremism, on the one hand, and on the other... on the other, France and Europe. And I also remind you, Counsellor, that your group in the European Parliament is not exactly in Renew, but is closer to the far right of the Flemish. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, counselor, yes, your group... your MEPs are there. And this extreme Flemish right has the relationships that it has, and it has, say, its connections with whom it has them. It's all right. I don't know... you're certainly very happy, and I won't be there, but I do need to remind you where each one is, because it's important that we know that. We're where we are. We also have to say that this decree, for us, therefore, while it has positive measures, is totally inadequate. I believe that fiscal and financial policy must be a fiscal and financial policy which, at least in this case, will be effective in giving real answers to the crisis we have. I know that this should also be complemented by courageous and real policies for the Government of Spain, which we will not bring. It's not happening to the Government of Spain or it's happening... I think that in this, at least, with these measures, it's not happening in Catalonia. We need policies... more than emergency, activation, and that's what we've said many times. I believe that here we will be able to highlight many times whether the fiscal policy that defends Ciutadans is the most appropriate or not the most appropriate. I think a lot of European countries are working. Policies and, say, liberal receptions have worked in many European countries. And here, I don't know if you need to deal with partners that aren't exactly liberal, so you can't do it or you don't want to do it. I don't know, and maybe someday I'll ask her in private and she'll be able to explain, okay? I'm sure... I think I know the answer, but I won't make it public. But we believe that this proposal, this decree, is totally inadequate. Why is it insufficient? First, because we believe that what you talk about or what you decide about this freezing of CO2 emissions tax, so it will not bring anything, at least..., or change the basis of the creation and injustice of this tax, which is poorly designed. You here, in the decree, they say, have had to modify it several times. It's the wrong design. It's that, in the end, he ends up recording the ones they least have, and that's true. And, in fact, this added to the wrong steps that have been taken by the Barcelona Assembly on behalf of Mrs. Colau..., so we have people who can't get to the end of the month and who can't get to work in Barcelona or who, moreover, have to be taxed many times for unfair taxes. Therefore, the tax is not done properly. We've never crept into this tax. In fact, we have defended that it is changed, that it is modified, and without maintaining... we do not defend negative positions. We believe that an energetic transition needs to be made, that our international commitments for 2030 need to be fulfilled, but we believe that you cannot justify, as you do later, the imposition of this burden on another policy or initiative, which is the tax on installations that affect the environment, saying that you do not have the resources to make the energy transition. It's that they haven't invested in the last two years in this energy transition. It is here that there have already been debates about whether wind power at sea was adequate or not. If we are at the end of the day, precisely, of the reversal in wind, solar energy... And they've followed you, it's that no one else has. Therefore, they do not come now to push taxes, and therefore to give lessons on how to make this energetic transition. There's no energy transition going on. We're not denying it, but they're just doing it wrong. We think it must be done and done well, as has been done elsewhere in the rest of Spain. On the other hand, it seems to us that they are exempt from the fishing fee, seems to us correct, and also seems to us to be correct the financial measure on the ICF. That's what we believe in. But as we do not see courage and we do not see them working in the right line in this decree, unlike what we have done other times, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.195.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.196.0	Thank you, President. Well, very briefly, to move our abstention. And I will try to justify it: essentially because, following the thread of most of the previous interventions, we clearly consider the decree to be insufficient, and, moreover, it does not respond, of course, to that extraordinary situation which has well described the councillor, but which, of course, then the measures, therefore, remain half way, although it is true that there are positive ones. The measures are clearly insufficient in fiscal matters, but it is that, in addition – Mr Antonio Gallego has explained this well – the important ones are missing, which could have had a solid impact in an extraordinary situation. These, they haven't even been talked about, and they don't show up. In the case of those that are insufficient in fiscal matters, the adviser's justification for the CO2 tax freeze is in fact the best possible argument to explain why it should be abolished, not frozen. It's just that Mr. Giró explained perfectly why he should be suppressed. He has explained the groups to whom he affects, who pollute little, who are mostly humble, who do not have the capacity to replace old vehicles, and who, moreover, limit their mobility – also explained earlier – in circumstances that are not precisely leisure, but are work-related. And, in this sense, well, I think that, since you have explained it so well, Mr Giró, you could suppress it, rather than freeze it. And, as I said before, beyond fiscal measures, which are insufficient or lacking the essentials, it is true that there are some who are fine, and we must say so. That is to say, the increase of the credit possibilities of the Institut Català de Finances for SMEs and self-employed or the exemption of the port rate for fresh fisheries are necessary measures that we support. But, I insist, it is only because of these that our vote in favour could not be justified, and we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.197.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr.Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.198.0	Thank you, President. Honourable councillor, deputies, deputies, good morning. In the first place, a conviction, condemns from our group to espionage that have suffered members of this chamber and other people of the citizenry and the social world; condemns and supports all of them. We have to put it one and another time from here to the Faristol, too. Secondly, thanks also to the parliamentary groups that will allow, therefore, the validation of this decree and its processing at a time, as has already been said and thought out, that, because of the economic, social circumstances, and in order to deal with petitions and the needs and the suffering of the citizenry, we need to take urgent measures of this type. Therefore, thanks, I repeat, to the groups that will facilitate this processing. If we were an independent state, as I have said many times, and we had our own capacity to finance and our own fiscal capacity, the situation of certainty that would be different. I'm sure some of these taxes aren't serious. I've said that before, haven't I? These favourable taxes, which represent only the five per cent of our country's joint tax collection, are fanciful in order to be able to have a minimum capacity before the repeated incompliments of State financing and the fact that the State collects most of the money and then slowly returns it, sometimes in the form of loans, and, obviously, insufficiently. Surely if the councillor turned instead of being a councillor it was the minister of this state that we longed for, the measures he would have taken would not be the ones we carry today in the law decree. There's no difference in that, is there? Surely it would be a reduction of special taxes, especially those that affect fuels and fuels or electricity; surely we would have a different model of calculation from the electric tariff, huh? , or we could apply cent_per_cent bonuses, as asked by the Member of the PSC, which are obviously very xule and very attractive measures, but from a point of view of our financial viability of the Generality are not possible. They are not possible because the citizens in our claims serve first, you serve from a state, as it cannot be in any other way, and, therefore, we have to do, from the point of view of the Generality's premise, a certain engineering financed in order to try to give compliment to the hundred_percent of the citizens' demands, and more at these times. If Councilman Giró was Minister Giró, surely he could also have reduced VAT on some essential products, huh? , to stimulate the economy, or we could make changes in the IRPF without having to suffer for whether they are declared unconstitutional, or we could make changes in the tax of companies of enterprises, on the quotas paid by the autonomous; until we could still increase pensions, minimum wages, or we would not have to suffer for the distribution and the arrival of the Next Generation funds in economic activity and enterprises. This would be the scenario of Minister Giró; but it is not this, it is the scenario of Councillor Giró, and therefore we are presented here with concrete measures, surely insufficient, surely in a first phase, eh? To be able to face some of these circumstances that are going on. And, therefore, in this case, as has already been said, a first measure of suspension of the increase in CO2 tax, which seems..., some consider it to be little, but from a point of view of recaptancy and, therefore, of the compromise to allocate these entries to environmental recovery activities and to make society more sustainable, so it means almost 91_million less recaptancy, with an impact on the deficit of 62_million negatius. And, therefore, the effect it will have. Or, for example, this increase in the tax on electrical installations to companies that have had over-inputs under tariff policy and which is set at about 41_million more inputs. That certainly Article 12.2 of the Law does not allow this increase in the tax to be passed on to users, as some group has not done, because you don't need to know the law, do you? Or the tax, or the reduction of that tax on fresh fishing. We are talking about €800,000 that will no longer pay the fishermen and the affected. And, in the case of this measure of the ICF in order to be able to give financial support to the companies of the agrarian and ramaders sectors, we are talking, therefore, that goes from 7_million to 32_million. Therefore, in this sense, we think that they are measures, as we say, effective in the circumstance in which we are and that, therefore, it was necessary to take them at these times. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.199.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.200.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, during the toughest period of the pandemic we've made a guy, a lot, in this plenary, to validate laws to try to adapt our fiscal framework and our administrative measures in those circumstances that were changing, as they were evolving the consequences of the pandemic. Unfortunately, it seems that, in a way, today we will be again. It seemed that we were returning and resuming a certain normality, we had overcome the loss of work places and the loss of the gross domestic product that had caused the health crisis, and, as a result of an economic recovery that seemed to be well underway, we also found ourselves with an inflation that made many decades that did not affect Western Europe. Unfortunately, as we have said, with the invasion of Ukraine, the global economy has again been shaken, and especially the economy of Western Europe, and it has again remembered the urgency of eliminating fossil fuels from our lives, not only for climate change, but also for the need to minimize our energy dependence on a few stable suppliers. The war has caused a drastic fall in the purchasing power of families, and it is one of the fundamental elements that must guide our political action and action, obviously, also of the Government. A drastic fall in the purchasing capacity of families as a result of the increase in inflation that was already coming and has made itself even harder: the rise in the price of electricity, gas, and especially, in a very remarkable way, the cost of fuels. We have heard here, as it was foreseeable, some interventions that call for this law of little ambition, that it should go further, and we certainly feel that at the Congress of Deputies we do not support the possibility that the Government of Catalonia and the autonomous communities in general can cope economically with this crisis situation. President Aragonès was demanding that he be able to get to the u percent deficit, and tomorrow a royal decree will be debated in the Congress of Deputies, in which a whole series of measures are laid down to try to deal with some of the consequences of the crisis in Ukraine. It is not remembered how to help the autonomous communities to cope with this crisis, the same way that it is remembered to occupy some competencies of the Generalitat de Catalunya. With the decree that we are debating today, the Government of Catalonia, as it has already expressed itself, has now completed a couple of changes to our tax system. In the first place, the charges for the impounding vehicle tax are frozen, and therefore the increase that the law provided for in the legislation does not apply. And in this way, as explained, the fiscal pressure on the citizen is avoided by 90_million euros, a citizenry that is currently patenting, as a consequence of the fuel surge, the consequences of this crisis. And, on the other hand, as has also been said, the proposal that we are making is to push taxes, the increase in the type of tax on electricity production in EUR 41_million in those electrical enterprises that are currently having some benefits that are certainly not recommanable for the economic situation in the country. Resources which, as has also been explained, will be used to boost the energy transition, to strengthen the absolutation of the 2030 targets in order to ensure that 50 % of electricity production is renewable, and therefore resources that are well targeted towards the European targets and also towards the targets of our country. And, on the other hand, as has also been explained, the decree takes two measures to support the primary sector, one of the economic sectors that are most affected by this crisis. I, first, place facilitates access to finance, and, second place, eliminates this tax on fresh fishing. In short, we understand that it is a useful, effective decree that allows us to deal with some of the measures, that must be accompanied by other measures on the part of the Government in future government sessions and that we will certainly see in future plenary sessions. It is a first step that reduces taxes on the citizenry, that increases them to electricity. It is a first step that improves the life for which they suffer from the crisis and that demands more effort from the electricians who have seen themselves benefited, and that gives a hand to a sector that is essential for the country as is the primary sector. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.201.0	Okay. So, after the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote, in which, in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it will be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this decree and that the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. If you can take up your seats, we'll start the vote. Let us then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree Law 4/2022_was validated, with 105 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 11 abstentions. In accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a valid copy of this decree, I ask the House whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be dealt with as a draft law. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, therefore, given the outcome of the vote, and as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Proposed law amending Law 1/2003, Universities of Catalonia]] [[202-00035/12]] And let's move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the opinion of the Research and University Commission on the proposed law amending Law 1/2003, of the Universities of Catalonia. In accordance with Articles 123.1 and 141.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we will begin this debate with the intervention of a representative of the commission that promotes the popular legislative initiative. There's the word, so, Mrs. Anna Rosselló.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.202.0	Many honourable President of Parliament, illustrious members of the Bureau and Members of Parliament, members of the committee for the promotion and organisation of the popular legislative initiative Universitats, today the students are in Parliament to defend the approval of the ILP Universitats. The objective: to shield the lower number of university students for the law. On February 2019 the student movement and the educational community pushed the ILP Universities with this objective that we explained, shielding the drop of the subjects. Three years after the message it remains clear, and therefore today the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia have the opportunity to take a step forward to ensure access to the university. If three years ago we started this popular legislative initiative, the struggle for the reduction of taxes already counts with more than two years of history. And at the length of this decade, we students have always met the same answer: political immobilism and repression. For years the lack of political will left behind thousands of students, and, despite the fact that 2016 this chamber approved a young man who was committed to lowering the number of students, it was not until four years after the first time the fall was included in the Generality's assumptions. Moreover, during these years of immobility, not only was Parliament's mandate not approved, but the students we defended at the public university exposed themselves to the cruelest political and police persecution. We cannot hold this debate without denouncing that more than thirty students have been retaliated to defend the public university. This debate also has to remember that defending the public is not a crime. The ILP Universitats represents the culmination of a historical demand and the consummation of a social consensus in Catalonia. It has been shown that shielding the downsizing of university pre-publics is a necessary demand that has social legitimacy in Catalonia. But we also have to put on the table to guarantee a university governed by social equity to go a little further. And that's why, with the aim of taking a step forward, today we are presenting three papers to defend the public. In the first place, the equipping of prices between the different degrees. The more student he has to be forced to choose his studies based on the cost of his enrollment. In the second place, the equipping of the master price at the grade price. Democratizing the university requires ensuring access to all stages of education. With this in mind, therefore, we present the opportunity to shield for you a maximum price and ensure that master prices cease to depend on the political color of the government in question. And in the third place, and lastly, we eliminate the sentence for seconds and successive degrees. Suspending a subpoena can't go on feeling like a reason to stop studying. We're in Parliament to shield the right to education and to make sense, too, of everything that led us to be here today. The ILP has not been a simple task, and it has not been possible without the involvement of couples and athenaeums, of Catalan associationism, of groups of causes and pleasures, of social movements, student movement, teachers' unions, among many other associations. It is thanks to all the affiliated entities that we have brought the ILP to every raccoon in Catalonia. The perseverance of the struggle of student movement and the compromise of the Catalan social fabric allowed us to obtain more than seventy thousand signatures. From here we want to give thanks to everyone who has made the ILP Universities possible; thanks for the support and effort you have dedicated to public university day after day. Now, then, it's the turn of political representatives. Now it is you, the Members of Parliament, who can choose between two clear questions: be consistent with the Catalan society and approve the ILP Universitats, or leave in the hands of the political color of the future governments access to the public university. We students have to push this law, we have to be the ones who push a law to defend the public university. And now it's up to you, it's up to them to take a step forward in defending education as a right. To vote in favour today is to vote in favour of a university model where equity is at the centre. Adopting ILP Universities is just the first step to get back to students our right to education. It is beginning to build a public university that is a centre of knowledge, cohesion and social integration. It is beginning to guarantee education as a universal and common right. It's starting to build a fairer and fairer world. And it is no secret that academic courses pass and that the university continues to be accessible to everyone. In other words, courses pass and, unfortunately, the right to higher education remains unsecured. And the time has come to stop looking at another band and to start working so as not to leave any more student behind. Students have been organizing us for years to recover a right that has been denied us, and with a clear horizon: the university's gratuity. We are aware that only with the organization and the struggle will we win all our rights and open the doors to this future, a necessary future that begins with the approval of this ILP, a future where no one is excluded from university, where the university is free and where we recover the right to education that is taking place in detail. The commitment and determination of the students and of the entire educational community have brought us here today. We know no one has ever given us anything. That's why we're still convinced that we're on the right path, a path that, yes, it's hard, but it would be harder to look us in the eye and know that we didn't fight. We open the doors to the future. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.203.0	Then, and in accordance with Rule 123.1 of the Rules of Procedure, she has the word, to present the work of the committee, the deputy Mrs Judith Toronjo, who in a nutshell appointed the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.204.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, president, councillor, deputies and promoters of the ILP, students who today accompanied us. It's a good thing to see the full Parliament. I would like to point out, with this first intervention as the rapporteur, to the plenary of Parliament, and leaving the position of the parliamentary group that I also represent, Junts per Catalunya, for the subsequent interventions of political forces; an opportunity as the rapporteur, as a young woman, to give a look at the compromises and the absolved facts in the framework of this Parliament and with the confidence of the rest of the Members of Parliament. Today, therefore, at the end of the parliamentary debate, we are bringing the opinion of the Research and University Commission on the proposal for a law amending Law 1/2003, of universities in Catalonia, the result of the popular legislative initiative of Universities. And let me have my intervention around the day of today's celebration, but also the object and the processing in its conjunction. And today we meet before a day of celebration. And so it is from a perspective of democratic radicality, because we can get this ILP to the final stage, with success for all, but also for our political system, of representative democracy, and with the popular will expressed through these mechanisms of citizen participation. We could say, therefore, that today, without any doubt, Catalonia will be a little more mature politically and representative of all Catalans and, in particular, the youngest. This proposal by the law, in its conjunction, aims to determine a catal framework within the price system, in order to ensure access, equal opportunities, and to guarantee the fairness of Catalonia's university education in the area of competence of the Generality in the face of the different crises we have experienced recently, the crisis of 2008, the crisis will finance, but also this last health, economic and social crisis that has affected us from the very beginning the youngest; many of them, mobilized and organized for what makes this initiative that you have started, and soc of the promoter entity that has accompanied us, in addition, in the words of their representative, explaining some of the claims in matter. Because no one in Catalonia would have to see private or difficult their opportunity to access university higher education for economic issues or through university subjects. And this chamber has thus been compromised, with the vast majority of Members and Members of Parliament, with the ILP, presented in 2019, with these seventy-thousand signatures. University education has a nuclear role, it's a public good in the development strategy of all advanced societies like ours. Therefore, universities must ensure financial autonomy through the appropriate combination of the funding system and service delivery inputs, taking into account, as we say, equity in access to continue, from these institutions..., for equal opportunities and in the social ascent. And above in this parliamentary process after you passed the debate on the whole last parliamentary term, on 21 July 2020, in this fourteenth parliamentary term, with the compromise to approach it and to overcome it, therefore, this debate, as we begin today. During the course, in addition, of the time we had to finish, we were accompanied by a number of thirty correspondents; a total of three marathon sessions, between the 14th of September, 15th of October and 9th of November. And in these we have listened to various organizations, social groups, experts, professors from around the university world, movements and student unions, with the aim of gathering all the sensitivities and all the demands of the university community, and with the subsequent debate of the papers. And on behalf of all of them today, as the rapporteur put it, thank the dedication given to this legislative initiative and, obviously, the joint work. I refer, first of all, to the promoter entity, which represents all the entities, all the student movement, through the ILP, and especially the spokespersons with whom we have worked together. I think I speak on behalf of all Members or most Members of this House when I say that they are – I am – a good example of how young people want to play our role in politics, because we have a lot to say and a lot to do. But also the representatives of the community: teachers, experts, the Catalan Association of Public Universities, the Observers of the University System, the Knowledge and Development Foundation, the professor Germà Bel, Dr. Jordi Mir, Professor Francesc Xavier Domènech, Professor Gemma Espigares, the manager of the University Pompeu Fabra – Oriol Escardíbul – and also the trade union and youth movements, such as the National Council of the Youth of Catalonia, the Council of Students of the Catalan Universities, the Coordinator of Representatives of Students of the Public Universities, the National Federation of Students of Catalonia, the Association of Students Progressives of Catalonia, the Youth of the National Socialists of Catalonia, the Youth of the Republic of Catalonia, the Youth of the Republic, the Youth of the Republic of Catalonia. During these sessions we have negotiated, we have negotiated, until we reach the maximum possible consensus. I would also like to highlight the climate of all the work purpose, despite the ideological differences, in order to contribute together to improving the Catalan university system; for the good, but also for this facilitated in the folded work. Finally, I would like to thank you, as it could not be otherwise, also to the chamber servants, to the committee manager and, obviously, to the linguists and to the two speakers who have accompanied us and made this the best possible text for their approval. And I won't be anymore. It is clear that the subject we are dealing with and worrying about today is to achieve a successful university model, and to do so with as much talent as possible, with a full knowledge society, advancing at the format level and at the academic level through research and, ultimately, through opportunities for our young people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.205.0	Many thanks to the rapporteur. And all the while we are opening the turn of speeches to parliamentary groups that have reserved lists to be defended in the House, for a maximum of fifteen minutes. The first word is Mr David González, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.206.0	Thank you very much, President. President, councillor, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. As I was commenting now on the Table, I will try not to spend the fifteen minutes that have been held up, basically because the presentation of the motion is brief, as is also the first modification of the law that today deals with us, but it is certain that it has an impact on the lives of thousands and thousands of students and young people in Catalonia in a very important way for their own years. Surely that's why, from the PSC, the feeling that we have today is a feeling of disappointment and sadness, because we think that what can happen today or what will end up happening at the end of the day is that we're missing a very good opportunity to get regular who are the prices we want at university taxes. And we think that this incidence will be reflected in the students and the living conditions of the people who are part of the public universities of Catalonia. Come on, come on, come on, come on, First of all, we want to make a little history of what happened and why we got to where we got to. The year 2012 was modified the organic law of universities by the Government of Spain of the People's Party, where it is created a fork that generates the possibility of establishing a price between a maximum and a minimum and that gives power to the autonomous communities, therefore, in order to be able to decide who are the prices that will fix their public universities. The government of Catalonia at that time, of Convergence and Union, decided to place itself as close as possible to the maximum price that established this opportunity, and this was translated into an increase of up to sixty-six percent of university fees to the Catalan public system. I don't know if we were already at that time, but what happened is that, with a clear difference, we were and we were the autonomous community with the most university priests in all of Spain. The fruit of this disorbited rise of a public service as essential as it was and is access to university, youth political organizations and student unions that we started to make was a series of mobilizations and peaceful protests, which were then translated into a collection of massive signatures, and which are today's ones that bring us to this ILP. Since our parliamentary group – the rapporteur has also done so, but we understand that we want to do so in a particular way – we want to thank all the people and all the entities that have made it possible for us to bring this ILP here today. I can't name them by name, because I'm sure I'd end up oblivious to some, but we want to thank them for the whole struggle for a long time and for all these years to raise my voice and to denounce that, by increasing the price of access to universities at a time of economic crisis like 2012 and before, what was happening was to expel people with more economic difficulties from the possibility of obtaining a university title. This unjust situation, unfortunately, remained unchanged until 2020, eight years after the exponential rise of university priests. And finally, 2020 is once again changing the organic law of universities by the government of Spain, the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, and eliminating the fork that had allowed Catalonia to increase university taxes. And not only that, but also that a price limit is fixed that will be completed from course 2022-2023. In this sense, and not for a question of our party, but to be honest, I want to thank the task that the Catalan minister, Minister Manuel Castells, made at that time, at that time at the head of the ministry, because in this action came to a good decision, agreed and agreed, at the University Policy Conference on June 2020. A decision that – it's the strongest – was agreed and agreed, as I say, 2020, also with the Government of Catalonia, which at that time agreed and pledged to reach the fixing of the divide and demand euros by university students. I insist once more: the Government of Catalonia of 2020, between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, the same groups that currently conform to the Government, have committed themselves to fixing and lowering taxes in view of the September of this course, 2022. It is true that 2020 has produced a very important fall, around thirty per cent, a demand that had been demanded by everyone. And it was an important demand, but it was an insufficient demand, which has to be materialized in a generalised price reduction that, unfortunately, we will see today that it will not arrive in time for the objective of course 2022-2023. And why do we think and defend, from the Socialist Group, that we need this downside without delay? For three very basic reasons. First of all, because it's a good measure for Catalonia. It is a good measure for young people and university students, to ensure that no one is excluded from access to universities for economic reasons. You're a concept of justice. The second motion, because the downside has to apply, as he agreed and marked it the University Policy Conference two years ago. And it is that we think that when decisions are taken by colleagues and resolutions are published, they must be completed. And finally, the third reason, and no less important, is because the Government of Catalonia in its moment showed itself in favor, at the conference, and committed itself to reaching this important goal. We'd like to think, though, that a few of us are here, that when the government of our home is committed to reaching an objective..., I can give you the compliment. Today, as much as there was a fall in 2020, I insist, we still feel, unfortunately, the autonomous community with the most university priests in all of Spain. It's more to study at the university in Catalonia than any other Spanish territory. And that is for a responsibility and a competence that surrounds him to this Parliament. And this has inevitably resulted in a reduction in the number of university students in the Catalan public system. The rate of access to university degrees has passed, since the year 2013, which was located in the 18.4_percent of young people between divided and 20 years who were at the university, by 2020, where there were 15.7_per_cent. It is a three-per-cent minus, absolute, of the total population of young people between the ages of 30 who had been to college, and now this figure has declined considerably. That's not by chance, obviously. This happened because there was a disproportionate increase in taxes, as we said, and it was a lot to reverse, even though it is in a small part. And today we know it won't be completely reversed until a few years ago. This ILP, what I intended at the time was to reverse this situation, we have understood from the first moment. Don't do it now, don't do it so alone in 2019, when it started. Surely..., it was reversing this situation in 2012, when the increase in university taxes was donated. And unfortunately, what we're seeing today is that the government's parties and their partners will use this ILP to lower the prices of university degrees not now, which is when it's called, but three years from now. We can assure you that the Socialist Group has tried to reach an agreement and to contemplate all the possibilities opened up to meet a price of Euros and tax for the beginning of the next university course by September 2022, and we have not succeeded. By contrast, today the independent parties will say that they do not comply with the price agreed with the bad government of Spain because they do not want to stay at a price of EUR for credit, but they want to get much more there, and they want to get to the price of EUR for credit. We can't fool ourselves at any time: no one can convince us that by 2025 a student will be paying for credit if we pay for twenty-five euros per credit by three months, as it will be for this university course. We will also listen to say, surely, that it does not come to the downside that we are asking from the Socialist Group because the painful Spain, once more, does not give us enough economic resources and we cannot face this downside for an economic issue. It is worth saying, as was important, that in 2017 the Junta d'Andalusia made an announcement that practically guaranteed free access to university students that the previous year had approved all assignments, and that it calculated that this cost would roughly amount to about 80_million euros for the Junta. The question is: has the cost of meeting the prices of the University Political Conference been studied and contemplated? Maybe we're talking about 40_million euros, 35_million euros, 45. It's a question we ask. I don't even say it's easy to settle down; we already know it's not, but neither is what you can say that it's impossible, because there are other territories that have shown it, that this is not true. When we talk about universities, we talk about a lot of things. Let's talk about the society of the future we want, let's talk about the knowledge we generate at home, about social justice, but not as an abstract concept, but as the ability we have to prove that the equality of opportunity is not a desire, but a fact. And this proposal, we're very sorry, you don't have that kind of expertise. It's a big deal, but now it's a brutal show of reality, and that's very clear. A whole generation of students, of those we've spent relatively recently for the universities, at the time we were at the university, we've listened a lot of times to the reasons for which we paid so much money to enroll in the careers we wanted to study. The reasons were the fiscal deficit, the Government of Spain, the Spanish State, a mismanagement by the Government of the People's Party – that here there is a part of reason... Now what's going to happen is that the independence parties will vote in favour of not lowering university taxes to the goal we've proposed until three years ago. Meanwhile, the rest of Spain will do so in the proper months. And this is voted here, at our home, with our powers, in our Parliament. It is worth taking note of this and that we never let ourselves be fooled any more by those who ask a lot, but then apply their own agreements a little bit. Thank you all. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.207.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the People's Unity Candidacy, the Member of Parliament Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.208.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and public officials attend... First of all, my first words will go, as has already been said, to La Pública a Judici, for those more than thirty students who have suffered repression on their own, but also at the group level and at the family level, with long court cases that obviously caused them a hardship, and all, therefore, to fight for this downside of the thirty_per_cent. As the ILP representative said, defending public university is not a crime, and we would add that it is an obligation. So, a record for these people to retaliate. This campaign aims to put back on the table the problem that affects all students in Catalonia, as an autonomous community, with the highest public prices in the whole State; "a price that prevents access to education for people with fewer resources, expelling them from university and eliminating the equality of opportunities necessary to build a fair and equitable society – thus beginning the text of the University ILP that we are debating today in this House. And I must say, we are here today thanks to this initiative, driven by the year 2019 for student movement, a promoter group that initiated this initiative to modify Law 1/2003, of 19 February, of the universities of Catalonia. At that time they were students at the individual level..., but also took part vice-rectors of different universities, representatives of youth associations and students– such as the SEPC, the AEP –, Arran, Young Republicà, the unions– as USTEC, Interunional, CGT – and various personalities of the social and political world– such as Gemma Ubasart, David Fernàndez, Jordi Borràs, Albert Botran or Ricard Gomà, among others. To all of them, and to many more, they must be here today. And, obviously, to the 62,000 people who signed up, so this ILP because today is a reality. I would also like to say that at the time the support of the Catalan Association of Public Universities and the Council of the Study of Catalan Universities was received, and I will read a few sentences. "The increase in university fees, combined with the davallada of finance, makes it difficult to access higher education. Moreover, it puts in danger not only the role of universities in the field of education and research, but also its task as an element of social equity, economic incentive and promotion of a free, critical and compromise citizenry. That's what the UPC told us. His head said to us: "Public and quality education is a right and a social need, not a privilege. As a student, we feel with social responsibility to convey our concern to the citizenry. I've sorted out these phrases so that they can be very good examples... and explain what happened in those years of detail, where was the political consensus that had allowed us to advance towards public education, with everything that really meant that. And it was about when, from that crisis in 2008, the different neoliberal governments decided to apply the scissors and raise a wall around which it was supposed to be a universal right: education. In this context of great economic recession, the Government of the Generalitat applied spending reduction policies reducing the funding of Catalan public universities, which is to represent from a seventy-three per cent of the admissions of these organizations in 2009 to a sixty-six per cent in 2015. In an attempt to balance the effect of these details that the Government had made, it approved a very significant increase in taxes, in relation to a 60-per-cent increase, which compensated for the fall in the number of admissions that came from the general public and put it on the student list, on the list of families in this country, in order to compensate, therefore, for the fact that the General Council failed to finance. Counselor Mas-Colell, at the head of the University, decided to do so in this way, and to make the taxes, this increase, fall directly on the student's enrollment concept. Also to remember, that 2012, the context that was lived, to which was added the application of the Bolonia plate and the difficulties that would arise, like not being able to combine studies and work, there was a percentage increase in the number of students who were screening the university at the end of the planned studies, there was a clear increase in the overall number of students enrolled in all the courses. The number of students entering Catalan universities decreased by almost five percentage points compared to the population of divided years, and caused Catalonia to pass from being the fifth autonomous community with more university students to being the ninth. Effects, therefore, very clear of this increment. In this way, the Catalan public universities were among the least well funded public universities in Europe – and, obviously, in the Spanish autonomous communities – and, in turn, the taxes paid by the students exceeded the European average and the Spanish average. With regard to university fees paid by students, Catalonia was ranked as the autonomous community with the highest tuition per student: a 50,4_per_cent over the Spanish middle school. This difference placed those who were studying in Catalonia in a clear disadvantage with respect to the rest of the students of the Spanish State. In the last few years – 2016, but also 2019 – different motions were approved by the Parliament of Catalonia to reduce this thirty_per_cent of public fees, thus compensating universities with an increase in public transfer. And, while these motions were approved, with all the mobilizations that have been organized since the promoter of the ILP..., the petition was approved, but the Government of the Generality did not manage to apply it, thus avoiding, for many years, that access to higher education was a universal right free of any type of barrier, already for social, cultural, political or economic reasons. The initiative, the ILP, all the years that have passed, has been used to get this tax reduction. Not as far as the end is concerned, but as a first step towards getting back the university we want, in which one of the foundational pillars has to be equity. Finally, in the course of 2020-21, it was already achieved the reduction by means of the presupposition. And now, with this proposal, what will be achieved is that it is for law and that it does not depend on the assumption. But he didn't get here free of charge. We talked about reprisals, but here too I wanted to say a phrase that the SEPC said at the time: "The downfall after many waves, demonstrations and marches to Parliament has been achieved. Let us not think, therefore, that this downside has been free, but that after getting this downside first, and now that there is a struggle for it, it must be pleasing to the entire university community. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the points that the ILP representative has expressed here, the three points. Saying it's keeping you alive... On the part of the CUP, we keep alive the items that make reference to the price of the second and successive courses, because we understand, like the ILP, that it is necessary that..., since we are making this modification of the law of universities, it was also a time to suspend this prize for second and successive courses and not to pose any further obstacles to the community of university students. Therefore, we have kept them alive and we hope, therefore, that they will have the majority support of the different groups that have representation in this Parliament. And I won't spend all the time. Giving thanks to all the people who accompany us from the university community, whether from student unions, unions or all kinds of organizations or at individual level, because without you and the 62,000 firms today that would not be possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.209.0	Then, and because they can explain their position on the text of the opinion, for a period of five minutes, they have the word parliamentary groups. In the first place, Congressman Manuel Jesús Acosta, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.210.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The institution specifically intended to create science and to spread higher culture, that is, the university, was born in medieval Christianity at the dawn of the cathedral and monastic schools, reaching public recognition very immediately. Initially, it was called "studio" to give consideration to its character as a corporation of students and teachers, and also because it taught the seven liberal arts in its version of trivium – i.e., grammar, dialectics and rhetoric – and quadrivium – arithmetic, geometry, astronomy and music – being the first university curriculum in the history of humanity. And, as you well know, that curriculum was designed by Alcuino de York at the Palatine School of Aquisgran at the end of the 8th century. This name became a university because of its universal character and also because of its supranational character, as thousands of students and teachers were freely circulating in European universities, taking into account the prestige of the institution and its own interests and possibilities. Since the mid-twentieth century, access to the university has been widespread in Spain, which is currently a consolidated right and also protected by the Spanish Constitution, in article 27. And it should also be remembered that the Catalan University Law itself recognizes, in Article 4b, absolute equality, the principle of equal opportunities in access and stay in the university for all citizens of Catalonia. However, in the current Spanish university space there is a deep imbalance between the prices of public universities that hinders the access to university of those students who have the most difficulties, according to their precariousness in resources. The Department of the Presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia publishes every year a decree setting the prices for the provision of academic services in all Catalan public universities. The agreement of 27 May 2020 of the General Conference of University Policy for the course 2020-21 was adopted in order to correct the inequality of opportunities for students by setting the ceilings of university public prices in the official undergraduate studies and master's degree in first enrollment throughout Spain, 16.05_euros for credit in universities of the autonomous communities with lower prices and 18.46_euros for credit in the rest. However, the equal opportunities of students are still being violated today by allowing the full application of these prices to be extended until 2022-23. The alleged egalitarian objective of this agreement is even more scandalously illusory in the case of master's studies, since it is envisaged that the maximum prices are set according to the prices in force in 2019-2020 according to the autonomous communities. As a result, following the presidential decree of 2021, by which prices are fixed for the course 21-22, the average price per credit on the first enrolment is still well above the limits set by the agreement of the General Conference of University Policy, being 23.46 euros per credit as an average in undergraduate studies and 27.67 euros per master's degree. Moreover, when the already inexorable deadline for implementing the agreement in the year 22-23 expires, there will continue to be a marked inequality in the average price of first-rate credit among the autonomous communities, resulting in Catalonia a 157_per_cent more expensive, for example, than in the Canary Islands, a 155_per_cent more expensive than in Galicia and a 146_per_cent more expensive than Andalusia. We, as the Parliamentary Group of VOX, already on 22 June last year we presented a motion for a resolution in committee demanding the immediate reduction of the price of the credit in first enrollment in the studies of degree and enabling master's degree from the 21-22 course, fixing it at 16.05_euros for credit in all Catalan public universities. That motion for a resolution was rejected. We have now had to wait three years – three years – until we have arrived and reopened this debate, so that these prices, these rates can be lowered. In spite of what this law presents us, which is much less ambitious than what we propose, since it is content with 17.69 euros and 19.36 by credit of degree and master, respectively, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.211.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.212.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor... Many thanks, deputies and deputies, and today, very especially, to the promoters of the ILP. First of all, what we want to do is to thank the students for their persistence in defending the public university as a public service and as a right guarantee for all citizens. From all the students who defended it: from those who defended it two years ago, during the retailings, especially those who suffered the legal and police consequences of facing the retailings in public universities and in the increase of materials, the students of the "We are 27 and more and all the lawsuits and lawsuits of this year, and from those who have persisted until today, generation to generation and course, defending the public university until we arrive where we are today. Give special thanks to the promoters of the ILP, to the students who have built it, to the entities that have joined it and to the thousands and thousands of signers who have joined to get to where they are today. 2020 has already brought down thirty percent of the student fees to public universities, but today we are achieving something that is surely equal to or more important, which is to shield this reduction by law and to shield the guarantee of access to public universities regardless of the economic status of students and their purchasing capacity. And this is an essential task. Those who fell two years ago to have to lower university taxes surely the best gain they can have for all the patience they have caused during these two years is to see that today the Parliament stands firm in that presuppositionary compromise and converts it into law thanks to the pocket of the university students, the professors who have joined it, the educational community of the country and the Parliament of Catalonia. Third question. They've changed a lot of things in these two years. There's not the same college counselor we had then, but neither is there the same minister. Today there is no Minister Wert, to be asked for a legal reform in order to be able to increase unilaterally a sixty-sis_per_cent taxes. Today we have Minister Subirats, who, together with former Minister Castells, built an agreement to reverse the tax increase that we have incurred in these two years. And an agreement that translates into a very simple proposal for Catalonia, which is a single price of a grade of 18.46_euros, which supposes a decrease, which adds to that of the thirty_per_cent, between a twenty-i-five_per_cent and a fifty-sis_per_cent in the case of the most expensive degrees. And this drop in the price of the degrees is the policy agreement of the university council, and it is therefore a policy of compulsory compliment for this September for the Government of the Generality. And here is where we have the central discrepancy with the whole process and with the text of the ILP, and what drives our abstention at a particular point, which is in the transitory arrangement: that the government asks us to give it three years to lower the prices of the degrees. And that's what we discussed in ponence. In the end we have come to an agreement of minimums that underpins our abstention, but which we want to explain. The government has assumed..., well, the parliamentary groups that support the government with the promoters of the ILP have assumed – and with the rest of the members of the ponència – a compromise of minimums that, basically, the one that poses on the table is: "We want to get beyond the bottom of the ministry, we want to get up to 17,7_euros, but we want to get there in three years. We have nothing against it, that in three years the price of the degrees to Catalonia is 17,7. In which we disagree and to which we will not support is that this year is not complete the downsizing assumed in the Council of University Policy. And, therefore, this September the prices of the degrees must be 18.46. And it has to be because we can't use it..., we can't allow the government to use an ILP to do accounting trilerism and say that the ILP to lower the prices of the degrees enables it not to lower the degrees to that which had been compromised with the public universities of your country. And we don't allow that. In Comú We can always be sure to recover rights and to lower public access prices to public services. And it is this September in the compliment of the agreement that the grades in Catalonia valguin, cost 18.46_euro to families and students, and it is in the proper years because in three years the public price of the subjects..., worth 17.7_euros, as we commit ourselves to this ILP. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.213.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.214.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... First of all, I would like to begin this intervention by thanking the promoters of the popular legislative initiative that has given place to this parliamentary debate and to this parliamentary process, which, as the honourable Member the rapporteur said, has indeed been a lengthy process, a process of which I believe everyone can feel to some extent in this Parliament. But, in any case, I believe that this final point too, which we come to, makes clear some aspects, let us say, of the criticism that can be made to the governments, to the succeeding governments of the Generality, as to the priorities that have been established to our community in the last few years. It is clear that the fact that Catalonia has been in the last few years, in the last few decades, even after the legislative changes of the last two years, the autonomous community in which university taxes have been higher than all of Spain is a date that must make us reflect on who are the priorities of our autonomous government and to what extent it is reasonable to continue always to act on the victimistic discourse, the hard one, and not to make policies that are really interesting or positive for equality, for equity, in a society that is democratic. From this point of view, I believe that lowering university taxes is a moral empire, a democratic empire for our society. The university, in the end, is a fundamental instrument to guarantee fairness, to guarantee a truly just system, a truly just social system, in which those who have the same talents, those who have the same abilities, can develop, I insist, their abilities and their talents with the same opportunities between a social system, I insist, that they must be equal. John Rawls – the father, let's say, of the movement of which we could call "social liberalism" – said that there is a just equality of opportunity when those who have the same level of talent and ability and have the same willingness to serve them, to use them, have the same chances of success despite their initial place in the social system, that is, independently of their original economic class. And that's what we can talk about the concept of justice as equity, and that's exactly what our defense group has always defended. From this rostrum, I would like to thank the promoters of this popular legislative initiative, which, in fact, makes it clear that there has been a certain decline in the priorities of the general government's successes over the past few years, and that the importance of higher education – in this case, university education – has been manifested in order to guarantee an essential thing for a democratic society, which is precisely the intellectual progress, academic progress, the progress, in short, the humanity of a particular society that wants to advance in terms of equality, in terms of democracy and in terms of social progress. Therefore, from this point of view, our position will be favourable to the joint text of the proposal. We will also vote in favour of the reserved items of the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the CUP, because they seem perfectly compatible with the hope and the letter of the proposed text. And from this point of view, basically what we want to make manifest is, once more, the existence of a general mistake in the area of priorities that our Government, the Government of the Generality, has had in the last few years with regard to education. We consider that what was done in the years of detail, especially from year 12, should have been reversed long before. The Government of the Generality has had other priorities which have meant that we have a very large and, certainly, disproportionate public expenditure in line with the situation of the economy of our community. And from this point of view, our group will always work for social justice, for equity. I insist on this concept so rawlsia, so much John Rawls, that it's justice with fairness. Indeed, if we want a truly equitable society, a truly just society, it is absolutely essential that those who have the same talents and the same abilities, and the same will to serve them in the sphere of society that surrounds them, have the opportunity..., and is guaranteed from the public sphere the elimination of those inequalities of origin, that are not, moreover, attributable to the actors involved, and that they cannot access certain people to the same service in condition of equality. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this proposal, and we welcome the fact that it has reached Parliament's plenary session. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.215.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.216.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Firstly, therefore, to welcome and thank the promoters of this ILP, who make it possible for us to deal with this issue here in Parliament today, although it is not a new issue, but it is a historic claim that we have been dragging for a very long time. Above all, thanks, I insist, to the movement led by the students, but also to the many complaints that we have made from various groups in this Parliament over the years, where we already asked for this reduction in rates, at least thirty per cent. However, the plans of nationalism have been different. And we've seen it over the last few years, I insist. What you wanted was to keep Spain's highest enrolments and try to exercise absolute political control over institutions that should be neutral. High rates and political control, that's the university plan that nationalism has. I insist, today we are dealing with this subject of university fees thanks to a proposal, thanks to a popular initiative that was already presented in the last legislature and which today culminates in this debate. We have seen how Catalonia had the highest university rates in all of Spain, again leading one of the worst rankings, as we have seen, therefore, in other economic indicators, such as, for example, corporate flight, etc. Here we also had taxes..., the highest in all Spain, and also the fees, which even came to be in sixty_and_six_per_cent. Well, we, from this Parliament, I insist, on many occasions we have tried this reduction in rates, especially at the harshest moments of the crisis, and yet it was unsuccessful. A great deal of parliamentary agreement has been reached. There was a clear democratic mandate from this Parliament, and yet the government ignored it. I believe that there are some democratic mandates which are of great interest to them and which have a great interest in fulfilling and claiming, and others, for example, which seem to be coming in and out of one ear, and that is precisely the case here. Good. We were talking about this economic crisis; then, the pandemic crisis, and finally, in 2020, it was when the Government did react once and for all and this reduction in the rates of degrees and university master's degrees was raised. But, I insist, mobilizations by students, mobilizations by trade unions, mobilizations also within Parliament in the form of parliamentary initiatives, legislative initiatives, and, finally, in 2020, this proposal did culminate. Despite this reduction already carried out by the Government, the ILP continued its parliamentary process, and therefore, today, it is coming to this Parliament to reach its final approval. It is true that we consider that during the process of this proposal of law has remained, the text, quite lowered from what was at the beginning. The text initially registered and promoted by the ILP was intended to amend the law of universities in Catalonia to amend Article 117 and to provide that public prices for teaching leading to a university degree would be within the lower half of the price fork envisaged to cover the costs of university education. I mean, what was the purpose of this amendment to this article? Well, I'll make sure that the prices of the fees are lowered. He intended, no more or less, to shield himself from a voracious government that is addicted to rising taxes and rising taxes. Well, after this parliamentary procedure, we have seen how Article 117 has changed, but not in the sense that it marked or called for the ILP, but what is expected right now is that these public prices of academic services will follow a model of social pricing with reductions in the lower income tranches that are higher than the thresholds of the general scheme grants. I believe it is clear that the groups supporting the Government have had more interest in lowering the original text of the ILP than in lowering university fees. Moreover, also, in the agreement reached in the paper, he introduces a point, an article, which is practically a declaration of intent, since it requires a subsequent agreement of the Government. And I am referring to article 41 of the law, which remains as follows: "The Government has articulated measures that make the expenses of residence, food and transport more affordable. If we do not have a budgetary authority to carry out this article, it will hardly be possible to translate it into anything useful and it will become wet paper. Therefore, we, in short, saw that the ILP intended a general reduction for all university students regardless of the income criterion, placing prices within that lower fork, and yet in the end it was simply a social rate. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I ended up very quickly, to say that we are going to support those amendments, for example those of the Socialist Party, which are more in the idea of preserving that original text, with which we were in agreement; we are going to vote against the amendments which depart from this text, and in the rest we are going to abstain, because we understand that it is not enough..., although a minimum agreement has been reached, we understand that it is not enough and that we must continue to work on the reduction of university fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.217.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Judith Toronjo has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.218.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies and students... I would like to begin this second intervention by grabbing the thread of which I have expressed in an initiative like the rapporteur, and thank once more the work of all the people who have made it possible and for the proper development of this law proposal. The effort of everyone must be today a victory. We're staying with this message. This is an essential step to increase in a very decisive way the stake for the fairness of the university system of Catalonia. Thus, also in this House, we cannot speak today about this popular legislative initiative without taking into account and without expressing the support of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia to members of the promoters and the university community who have pending judicial cases, who have suffered from repression and who have seen their narrative rights violated for Catalonia, as we have known these past days. I, going into the detail of the question, announce on behalf of the parliamentary group that I represent the vote in favour of the opinion of the Research and University Commission on this proposal of law, because it reverses the transactions to which we have come through the consent of Junts for Catalonia with the groups of Republican Left and the Candidature of Popular Unity, also from the recommended statements for the group promoting this ILP. In such a way that this text assures, by law, something that has been compromised by Juntes for Catalonia and the Department of Research and Universities from the beginning of this legislature, as it is, first of all, guaranteeing a progressive reduction of the next three years because the degrees of the public universities of our country have the same price, which is equivalent to the degree of experimentation lower. That is to say, to give a practical example, this law will allow the same cost to a young student to do the degree of medicine as studying the degree of philosophy, which would put us roughly, and as the companies who preceded me in the paragraph have commented, about the 17_euro credit. But, for another band, it also guarantees the equipping of the master's price to the degree, an initiative already initiated in view of the academic year 2021-2022, as well as the initiative to which is added the reduction of the thirty_percent of the materials, which has already been a reality for the university degrees in view of the academic year 2020-2021. This proposal for a law, therefore, that we approve from here to a few minutes, is based on three principles, on three aspects, which I believe should be basic in all parliamentary proposals: consensus, realism and fairness. First of all, the consensus: an opinion that stems from the coordinated proposal and unity of the promoter group with the majority of the Parliament, but also from the agreements of the legislature and the general budget that we approved very few months ago, and to which we compromised the two parliamentary forces that we support to the execution. Realism, second place, to bring to the plenary a weighted proposal that incorporates the downsizing of the university priests and does so progressively, in the own three exercises, the elimination of the current economic biases in the election of the types of study; but, moreover, also compensating economically, as has always been done, to the universities, and shielding it because no government in the future can reverse it. And, thirdly, and not least – in fact, I think it's the key point of this law – fairness, the most uplifting aspect and what I've ever referred to. We advance towards the fairness of the university system, and we do so from equal opportunities, breaking social barriers and making an equal society with the lowering of public prices. It is a very important measure to be added to, of course, new policies in the future, such as work for paid scholarships or other types of surplus expenditure, such as housing or mobility. And, in fact, scholarships are all the more important, because, if we look at the 2007 data, the percentage of students who could take their university studies thanks to a scholarship was in the 20_per_cent, while at the present time almost fifty_per_cent. An essential help that also requires the transfer of the management of the scholarships, that the Spanish State has not yet completed and that we carry more than twenty years waiting. And, in conclusion, and before the end of time, President, I repeat today, with this approval, yes to fairness, yes to equal opportunity, yes to ensure a better future for our young people, because the best answer we can give today for the university system is independence through the management of our own resources and through the taking of decisions in the legislative sphere. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.219.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.220.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Deputies, the people who accompany us, especially those who have left you so much to make it possible that we are still here today... The ILP « We will recover the university starts its appeal in 2019, as a step further into the fight that arose in 2011, in response to the enthusiastic details of the student government of Convergence and Union with the support of the PP. In front of a linear increase – that yes – of the sixty-sis_per_cent of the university priests, mainly compensated with a system of scholarships that went better in the later years, but that at that time left students on the margin, the student movement responded with strong mobilizations that marked the student life of a whole generation, in which I counted. Today, after years of waves, repression and strife, we finally arrive at a text of law granted that must give a starting point, a security, to the students, and must avoid repetition of history, must avoid future regressive storms. Massa has trigat, but the result is solid and we have to celebrate it. The result is the following: in two years we have gone from being the autonomous retail champion community to being a country that wants to be free, that has decided to govern itself, with a horizon marked by a few prices below those that mark as the most progressive government in history. And this indicates the power of change that, with time and persistence, has the people of this country and, especially, the student movement. When streets and institutions co-operate in the country progresses. And it's that I read it up here with part of the way cut. The presuppositions of 2020, from the student vice president and today President Pere Aragonès, have already lowered thirty_percent of the prices of the degree, and the current government has already lowered forty_percent of the prices of university masters. The measures we approve today are solid, too, because they can be applied, because they are realistic. Because we do not trust the magic power of the norm, we do not fall into what the former minister of universities did by signing a paper on this matter, carrying his powerlessness over the autonomous communities; zero resources for the measure – zero resources. And, precisely, it will involve real changes because it has also been improved from the appearances of entities, bodies and experts that we have been able to listen to and to whom I take advantage to thank his work and his contribution. What is the exact content of the ILP? A modification of the law of universities so that no one is left out of the studies for economic reasons, and at the same time it compensates for the possible loss of entrances to universities. We set a single price for graduate studies, regardless of experimentation. Studying history, as I did, has to cost the same as studying infirmary, that studying an engineering, in order not to create inequalities in academic vocations: around a thousand euros the full course, lowering the price of degree, as has already been said, up to 17.69 euros the credit. That one grade prize is a topall, and it's going to come down gradually in the next few years. That is to say, the government will always be able to go further, if this is the will, but it will not be able to pull back without the approval of this Parliament. And that's what armor is all about. We also focus on the master's price, that the next three years will continue to shrink until it reaches the seventy_per_cent of the current price, advancing towards the practical equalization of prices between degrees and masters, another fundamental demand of student movement. This demand above today after the storms of pandemics, elections and difficulties in initiating the legislature, three years after and with more than seventy thousand signatures collected. Let me thank the work done for Gemma Espigares and Rut Ribas the previous legislature, as Members, which has made it possible that we are still here today. In a context of inflation and increase of general price of basic aspects, such as energy, transport or housing, measures as we approve today are reducers of inequalities and equals of opportunities. But at the time the objectives must be much more and more ambitious: I am talking about the infra-financing of universities, which can be reversed; also policies such as wage scholarships or some issues that we cannot approve today, because we cannot guarantee the compliment and we do not have the resources we need today. Finally, I would like to address the student movement and, in general, the young man who fights: for more they say, for more than sometimes costs, tired, creams or frustrious, fighting works. Without organization there are no victories, no transformations, no liberation. Today we have a small example, which has cost the efforts of many, also with repression. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , also with judicial proceedings – and I finish, President –, but the benefits are for everyone, for the conjunction of citizenship and for whom they will come. Perhaps we cannot decide the context in which we have lived, but what we do to trap it and improve things from our own collective ability. If we are more, the results will be faster and faster. Next, until your own victory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.221.0	So, once the debate is over, and they have called for a vote, I inform you that we will vote in the first place on the reserved items submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and the Popular Unity Application - A New Cycle for Winning, and then we will vote on the text of the opinion. We are voting, therefore, first of all, on item 3, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. The vote begins. The item number 3_has received 59 votes in favour and 74 votes against. We now vote on the issue number 4, which has been presented by the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win. The vote begins. The item number 4_has obtained 22 votes in favour, 67 votes against and 44 abstentions. Let's vote now on the number five puzzle. The vote begins. The item number 5_has obtained 32 votes in favour, 67 votes against and 34 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote on the text of the opinion. In the first place, in accordance with the requests for separate votes, we vote on the transitional arrangement. The vote begins. The transitional provision was adopted, with 88 votes in favour and 45 abstentions. We continue to vote jointly on the three final provisions. The vote begins. The three final provisions were approved, with 130 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We shall then vote on Articles 1 to 4 of the opinion. The vote begins. Articles 1 to 4 of the opinion were adopted with 130 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. And finally, we vote for the motius presentation. The vote begins. The motion was approved, with 93 votes in favour and 40 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Compliments of the budget of the Parliament of Catalonia]] [[237-00003/13 and 237-00004/13]] Let's get to the fourth point of the order of the day. The fourth point of the order of the day is the presentation of the report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2021. And, before we begin this presentation, the reminder that, as you know, this point will be co-substantiated with item 5 of the agenda, related to the report on the compliment of Parliament's expenditure assumption on December 31, 2021. The Bureau, in accordance with Rule 37.3 of the Rules of Procedure, instructed both reports to be submitted to the Deputy Speaker Mr Juli Fernàndez. So, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.222.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, Members, Members... as the President was introducing, and as you have seen in the order of the day, this point is such as to present the report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption for fiscal year 2021, July and December 31st. Allow me to begin by telling you that I will also make the intervention on behalf of my fellow MPs, Mr. Óscar Ordeig and Mr. Jordi Munell. As you well know, these reports, once made them by the team of the Oedoria de Comptes and have reached our compliance, are presented to the Expanded Bureau, which on April 20th proceeded to its approval and agreed to raise them to the plenary. I'll give you a brief summary of what this execution has been. As you know, this year we were on a presuppositional prorogation. Therefore, the assumption is the same as it was approved on March 4, 2020. The initial assumption was 62,980,000 euros, and during the first quarter of the year it was incorporated 454,585 euros as the incorporation of Romans. During the second part of the year, during the second half of the year, 8.511 were added, so that the total budget of the Parliament of Catalonia during this past year, 2021, was 63,443,000_euros. We have, therefore, these credits divided into six chapters: chapter 1, 36,492,000_euros; chapter 2, 10,271,000; chapter 4, 13.384,000; chapter 6, 3,285,000, and chapter 8, deu_mil_euros. The assumption, in its execution, was a total of 90,19_percent of execution, 57,216,931_euros. And the execution by chapters..., chapter 1, the staff, held an execution of a 91.25_per_cent; chapter 2, of a eighty-five_per_cent; chapter 4, we know that primarily there are transfers to parliamentary groups and subgroups, of a 99.98_per_cent; chapter 6, of investments, a 54.43_per_cent. And the variation of funded assets was executed in a cent_per_cent. Therefore, this execution, as we will see later, gave a novel of more than 6_million euros. And I would also like to say that the payments during this year, in 99.14_percent of the cases were executed within the same year and there were some recognizable obligations for an import of EUR 492,000_. As I said, this romant of the unexecuted part, of the 9,81_per_cent, is 6,226,000 euros. If we look at the participation in this romant per chapters, they see that Chapter 1 participates in almost fifty_per_cent, with 3,191,000_euros, and Chapter 2 and Chapter 6 participates in almost one twenty-i-five_per_cent each of them, with the wish of 1_million_i_mig of euros each of the chapters, arriving at this amount of 6,226,000_euros. Of these 6,226,000_euros, one part is a credit romant that can be incorporated into the presupposition, in order that they are contractual obligations for the Parliament of Catalonia and that are to be executed, and these series 630,212_euros, remaining 5,596,290,48_euros, that set the incorporation romants in the three-time novelt of the Parliament of Catalonia. It is an available credit romant who has been basically looking at the creation of new jobs that have been equipped and that have not been covered during the 2021 exercise or that have been covered at a later date than originally planned. Also create assumptions for substitutions and eventualities. At the same time, we also have some expenditure, such as that of parliamentary group assistants and possible staff, who have not been covered since day or year, but have been progressively covered. Also on the extended assumption was an endowment for the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Democratic Parliament and another endowment for expenses arising from gathering meetings and conferences, and also some replenishments of contract documents of Chapter 6, which make the execution to be fifty-four_per_cent. Therefore, to these 5,596,290 euros have to be added 4,154 euros, which are recaptivated Romans during the 2021 exercise, coming, basically, from the sales of the office of the Parliament. So we have a €5,600,000 Romanesque that will be..., can be transferred to the romanesque fund. I would like to end this intervention by thanking all the technical staff of the Oïdoria de Comptes; to the listener, in particular, also for his work and for his help with the deputy interveners, which, therefore, we try to do, all three, our pocket in the best way. And they ask them to vote in favour. Thank you very much, President; thank you, President, Members, Members. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.223.0	Thank you very much. Now, if a parliamentary group asks for it, it could speak and use the word. [[Eulàlia Regant and Cure ask to speak.]] Yeah? So forward, Mrs. Reguant, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.224.0	I'll make some from here the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.225.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.226.0	Thank you, President. Just to explain our vote. We will abstain in coherence with the vote against the 2021 assumptions we made. We understand that compliment work is a more technical issue, but that the background is the compliment of assumptions that we don't complete. That's why we're abstaining. And all I'm saying is that the 2022 presupposition compliment of July comes along and we're still having a hot potato, which is the undersides of the deputies and the diets. When our partner Pau Juvillà said: "Deputies, we are covering a pastel without solving it, and it is beginning to be urgent that we put our hands to work so that the deputies of this Parliament are not so far away from the people of the street, that it is to whom we have to represent, but in the background we are covering two and three times more than the average person or the one who takes a lot of people in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.227.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.228.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen... briefly, because we only have two minutes. We are not going to talk about the accounting aspects, but about some other issues that we think are relevant. Firstly, it informs us that the budget of the Parliament of Catalonia in the year 2021 was nothing more and nothing less than 63_million_and_average_of_euros– 63_million_and_average_of_euros. We believe that the citizens of Catalonia should know what this is costing them, what the institutions are costing them. And, moreover, for this year, for this year 2022, the budget of this Parliament has therefore increased to 65_million_and_middle_of_euro. Secondly, to comment that these 63_million_and_average budget were spent, in our opinion, without transparency. I would like to give an example of the news of the salaries paid to workers of the Parliament who were exempted for years from their obligation to come to work. And we had to find out about this irregularity from the press. Thirdly, the VOX Parliamentary Group – and this should be borne in mind – made a proposal for a 50 % reduction in the economic allocation to the parliamentary groups, which was not approved by you. This would have meant a significant reduction in public expenditure and could have been directed towards the real needs of the whole citizenry. Unfortunately, our proposal was rejected, thus confirming once again that what really matters to you is the state of the welfare of politicians, and not that of Catalan citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.229.0	Then, on behalf of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.230.0	Yes, thank you, President. We too will abstain in these votes. We also want to thank the listener and the Parliament team for having made this state of execution. Indeed, it is a more technical issue, but also in line with our vote against the assumptions of the year 2020, which extended the year 2021, we will abstain. Yes, we would like to insist that there is an important Romanesque who incorporates himself into the presuppositions of 2022, and we would also like to know what he is thinking of prioritizing the destination of this Romanesque, if possible. Because, for example, it has been found that all the activities provided for in the equality plan that this Parliament also approved, so it would be well enough to have external resources to be able to develop. Therefore, we would like to insist on this priority at the time of assigning the Romanesque and being able to increase the resources allocated to the deployment of the equity plan. But, in the band of this, we also abstain from what has already been said, because we are ending the month of April, because we are ending the month of April and the assumptions of 2022, which we also voted against, because they meant an increase in the departure of the expenses for the deputies and the deputies..., because it is certain that the incorporation of this I am covered that we end up collecting as diets and that we do not declare, Members and Members, despite being a considerable amount of money..., therefore, it is expected that you will join the name, so – that, therefore, you will pay – but this would mean an increase in the expenses for the Parliament. We voted against it, because we do not agree that this represents an increase in expenditure. We think that this is something they should assume... that the sound of the deputies and the deputies, but it is that we find that by April this has not yet been implemented, that there has not yet been any change, that news is coming out, that public opinion is aware that we are collecting diets that are oversized and that have no justification. And we would like to ask that there be an agreement so that the diets are taxed, that they become part of the self, and that this does not imply an increase in the expenditure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.231.0	Are there any other groups that want to use the word? [[Pause.]] Therefore, once you finish the presentations, ask them if they can be approved by consent both reports. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, if not, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote, first of all, on the report on the compliment of the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2021. [[Pause.]] Are we all there? [[Pause.]] So the vote begins. This report was adopted with 98 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 31 abstentions. Next, we are voting now on the report on the compliment of the presuppost on the 31st of December 2021. The vote begins. This report was adopted with 98 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 31 abstentions. Therefore, the two reports on the completion of the expenditure assumption of the Parliament of Catalonia on 31 July 2021 and 31 December are approved. We suspend the session until three-quarters of four. Remember, we're going to do a minute of silence in the palau's face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.232.0	Let's resume the session in the sixth point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into the pederasty in England]] [[252-00017/13]] The debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into the pederasty in England. This proposal was submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature and the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can. In the first place, the three proposing groups will then intervene, for a maximum of five minutes each. It has the word, in the first place, the deputy lady Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.233.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, this chamber, this Catalan Parliament is about to approve a commission of inquiry into the rights of children, a field of action for dignity and against one of the most devastating crimes for millions of lives, that of sexual abuse to minors, which are direct violence in time, direct violence exerted with great levitacy, but which are also delayed in time for the severe stellar consequences, with matching sequels, that condition the future of these lives, especially when they do not receive the necessary follow-up or repair treatment. We are in front of a social chacra that would in any case have the monumental proportions that you have if you do not enjoy an impunity and a connivance that can be eradicated. And this committee that we will approve today will be an important step. And I must thank, today, the work of so many entities and people organized to make visible this shame that some want to keep hidden; entities and people organized that, with their struggle, opened essential lives of this way that is still to make, for example, that of having a public network of attention to victims and, above all, clear measures of prevention. The first way to prevent it is not to cover it up. The motion for a resolution that will be adopted will be approved because there has been a generous effort from all groups to achieve it. And that's why I'm only going to comment on three aspects today. On the one hand, the relevancy that Parliament has of approving this commission of inquiry, which is the first to be approved in the autonomous mark of the 78's rule. As in so many other decisions that seek to defend fundamental rights, this Catalan Parliament went forward, breaking the seams of the state mark, and that is surely why it is a supervised, controlled and retaliated Parliament. On the other hand, comment on some of the alerts that the consensus work has shown, for the consent of the transactions, thanks to the papers that have presented Joints for Catalonia and the PSC. And I make it clear that this does not only happen in the areas of Catholic England, as they obviously wanted to point out. But also to clarify that this motion for a resolution does not attack or persecute religious belief, it is not a question of the spiritual dimension – that each person has the freedom to live as he believes – nor is it in absolute attack on Christianity, but it does designate Catholic Church as the structure of power he has hidden and allowed. Because they are not cases when the institution hides them, or does not act strongly against them, or does not cooperate in the preventive task and in the unconditional follow-up of victims. And, therefore, the motion for a resolution specifically states this Catholic Church, as the institution that is protected for the State, as the monarchy is protected, despite the evident evidence of its corruption. The role of Congress has been regrettable in both areas and must not alienate us, knowing that the mark of which the State departs is a monarchic, imperial, colonial, patriarchal and confessional mark, where the Church is a basic pillar that sustains it and that enjoys protection and privileges that make it an interwoven institution between all the state structures and socioeconomic lobbying, that you serve a lot of public and that counts on the State as a covert. We've seen it, how it went in Congress. We also know, however, and it is important that from the bottom up, from the bottom up, the Church counts with many people willing to collaborate in a transformation that will lead to these perversions. Finally, I wanted to comment on some considerations that are important for the political space that we represent the CUP - A New Cycle to Win as the feminist space and the left that we do not believe in re-victimizing and punitiveist approaches. To make it clear that this is a parliamentary, not a judicial, inquiry committee; that parliamentary conclusions can provide for political judicial proceedings, but do not make a forensic judicial process. And, well, I don't have time to explain more of our vision than political space, we'll have a chance to do it on this committee. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.234.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.235.0	Thank you, President. We want to start this intervention with all entities working on sexual rapes that have joined this recently formed Zero Tolerance platform. Move them again to get it and through all the work they do these years, despite the fact that we have not been on the rise, so far, of dealing with crimes such as we are debating at the committee, which we hope will be approved today. We begin by expressing our satisfaction that we have reached this point, achieving the necessary consensus to make possible the investigation of sexual rapes against children committed to ecclesiastical institutions and in areas where action or omission may have been taken, in favor of the impunity of pederasts, covering them up or not collaborating in favor of victims. In this sense, we recognize, too, the gesture on the part of the positions of the Socialists and Juntes groups for Catalonia. And here we come to a new tape in the fight against the impunity of sexual aggressors, because where we move and remove it is the deep conviction that it should never have passed, and that it can be guaranteed that it will not happen again, especially. And that this is the institution's duty. It's our responsibility. Never more against the child's head. It is fair, too, to recall the efforts made previously, in previous legislatures in this Parliament, so as to constitute this committee. But he didn't get to do it. And, in this case, the perseverance of people like Manuel Barbero opened the way. To the victims and survivors of sexual violence we want to tell you today that, despite the fact that the institutions have not been on the rise, we have understood that much more needs to be done, than as the representative chamber of the society that we are, it is up to us to carry out this exercise of truth, justice, separation. Be who you are with the cover-up and the impunity. Today, as we are late, as we often go through this Parliament, we take this step and expect to count on entities to develop the work plan during this committee. Now you must also look at the government action of the Generality. The government has to say that it has had a rather ambitious agenda in this sense. We are concerned – and we have to say – about the difficulties in advancing the guarantee of children's rights, encouraging services and services to protect children and promoting preventive public policies, above all. We know how far we are in sexual and emotional education in relation to other countries. It is a priority, therefore, to get out of this paralysis. And in childhood protection, we can't afford this, because life goes on very fast and because we have to guarantee a happy and safe childhood. Whatever we can do, we have to do it now, because I repeat that we are late. Certainly, sexual rape perpetrates aggressors in the victim's own environment. Pederàstia is not an excluded issue from the Church, but it is excluded that an institution accumulates so many cases and has addressed it in such a shameful way, especially – we must say – the role of the Spanish and Catalan Church, where there has not yet been a strong condemnation and has systematically refused to recognize its direct responsibility. They cannot be the exception of Europe and must demand respect and reparation for victims, as has been done in France, Germany or Belgium. Catalonia will have, fortunately, the first commission of inquiry into the state pederasty. And I need to open up a path that other countries have already made. It will also do so to the State through the Ombudsman of the People, and we hope that with a commission to the Congress. We are convinced that the commission of inquiry is not the instrument. The same Greuges Synod told us before its limitations to investigate, given the ecclesiastical capacity. We heard – yesterday we felt it ourselves – the victims of the Church's pederasty ask for collaboration from the ecclesiastical dome, at religious orders, in the investigation, as requested by the same French pope. The Head of England in 2019 established the general duty of all of England to cooperate with justice. Justice. We will also study with the detention that calls for the legal viability of the proposal that brings us to the zero tolerance platform. We call for support for this committee and hope to position ourselves on the papers, too, which have presented the rest of the groups. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.236.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.237.0	Thank you, President. President, Counsellor, today for the Republican Left Group is an important day, because we understand that the Parliament of Catalonia, as has already been said, is about to approve the creation of a commission of inquiry into pederasy in England. Because what we do today is an act, a first step in an act that must be of justice, reparation and non-repetition. Mirin, the statisticians respect sexual abuse of sgarrifene infants. According to the World Health Organization, one of five children will be the victim of sexual rape before arriving in the past year. To hear the magnitude of what we are talking about, if we take the 135 deputies and deputies of this chamber, then, according to this statistic, there would be twenty-i-seven– twenty-i-seven– who would have been victims of sexual abuse during their childhood. To hear the magnitude of what we're talking about. Therefore, it is a difficult phenomenon and since the institutions can not continue to require it. It is a reality that we must accompany; we must accompany the victims in this exercise of justice and, as I said, reparation that they must. Cases such as the Maristes, Montserrat or the recent case reported by Alejandro Palomas to La Salle de Premià de Mar manifest that in the case of the Catholic Church, all an institution and at the same time a private entity in which many families trust the education and the teaching of their children, there have been cases of pederatia. And in this matter, the Spanish State is neither expected nor expected. Actually, we've seen it with the non-creation of this board of inquiry, with the thing that this is supposed to mean to the victims, right? And so now what we applaud is that in this Parliament, we take advantage of all the possibilities we have to create this committee of inquiry with what it supposes. A commission of inquiry that must allow us to request all the appearances that are necessary to clarify the facts. Also have access to all the documentation, also to the canonical archive that must allow us, therefore, to clarify these questions. And we have the moral obligation, all of us, also the Catholic Church, to accompany and repair the victims of all the abuses that may have occurred and to put all the tools – absolutely all the tools – because this is not repeated in the future. And despite the fact that what we do in this Parliament – said the deputy of the commons – is a pioneer in the Spanish State, so, this investigation, these in-depth investigations have taken place in other countries, right? This is the case of France, where 216,000 victims – 216,000 –, 3,000 accused priests, in this case. Also in the United States, on the year 2002 – we are at 2022; the year 2002 – is ugly public, through, in this case, the Boston Globe, the Spotlight case, which everyone knows. Or the case of Austràlia, which was the first countries to address this issue. And, obviously, with the exchange of ideas – and we appreciate the effort, in this case, of the Juntes groups for Catalonia and the PSC – we are expanding the focus. Because, obviously, the abuses are producing, right? ... in order to keep the figures we have, therefore, are produced in many areas – in the school area, in the school area, in the family area; in fact, more than eighty_percent of the abuses are produced in the family area – but what we cannot do is also to blur the object of this commission. And, therefore, we also welcome the fact that in these papers we have given work in thematic areas, that we can also have partial conclusions from each of these thematic areas, because it seems to us that it is important. And the deputy of the commons said so too, we can't stay here. We took a first step, so we had this meeting with the victims. There is not enough to bring about all these cases of sexual abuse, but from the institutions, in this case of the Government of the Generality, it is necessary to make this follow-up to victims, a follow-up above all in the psychological sphere, because there is not enough to bring the cases to light. So I think it's also time to take on this commitment here today. We understand that with this commission – the deputy Sabate also said – it is not a matter of going against anyone, against any faith, against any religion, but it is merely a matter of doing this repair exercise, this exercise of accompanying the victims. There are many cases that have occurred. We want to know how many cases have occurred. We want to know what happened. We want to know who made them. We want to know who also allowed these cases to happen, so we do, because we understand that it's an act of justice, it's an act of reparation, and it's an act of non-repetition in the future. We all have a responsibility. We are pleased that we have reached this agreement, because what we are doing in this Parliament is a first step; that we can continue to work and the Republican Left compromise will be there now and always. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.238.0	Then, the parliamentary groups that have introduced lists by order of entry into the register will intervene. Therefore, the first word is Mr David Saldoni, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.239.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, President, Members and Members, today we are dealing with a very important fact, that it is the creation of a commission of inquiry to save cases of pederatia, cases of sexual abuse, and obviously pederatia, seen overall, is one of the most important massacres in our society as well. Because pederasty in childhood, with infants and young people, obviously leaves a few sequels that affect the length of life. Some sequels that, in this case, are deep and inescapable and that affect the attitude with which you take life, the attitude with which you face your day to day from the moment that this has passed until you end your life, because always, it is always door to door. And it also affects in a very clear way in the life and sexual conduct of the people who have suffered it. And, of course, it's a matter that we have to deal with with the maximum, with the maximum strength, with the maximum importance and relevance at the time of being able to face it. There are innumerable, and there are reports of reports. But the problem is also in all cases that do not arise. As we say, the vast majority are fans in trusted surroundings. Eighty-five_per_cent are about around whom people are known, already in the family – mostly – but also at school, in sporty areas, in light areas, with people you know. And that, obviously, is what leaves these sequels so deep that they cause this not to be explained. And that's why they come to the end of the years, because there may be some who, sometimes, try to trivialize it, say: "How can it be that at the end of forty years, at the end of fifty years...? Because it actually has some undeleteable sequels and we have to face it. That's why we've worked to be able to, so attack the problem in all its magnitude. Its magnitude is important in the case of Catholic Church, because we have already seen many cases that have remained in the yes, covered up and certainly by this attitude on the part of Catholic Church that has not just collaborated at the time of being able to do so. We celebrate, for another band, that they begin to organize, in this case, an independent audit and that people can gather in order to be able to make these complaints independently in the area of England. Therefore, there is also a step; there is also, also, a turn. But what we defended in this sense was to open the focus – to open the focus – and to talk about Catholic Church, but also to talk about the realms of light, of sport, also in some moments – why not? – in the family contexts, where there are most cases. Therefore, let us celebrate that with these, too, partial conclusions, with this partial work that must be able to make this commission, we can move forward in all these cases and in all this knowledge. Because it is also the responsibility, in this case, of the Parliament of Catalonia, as an institution that we want to represent the assembly of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, to be direct and strong in creating a commission of inquiry in which we can see people, we can open the focus, come experts, why, to the band of power to signify, to be able to save structural problems in certain areas, what we have to do is also be able to analyze and be able to take advantage of solutions that we have to be able to give to this. And, therefore, it is our responsibility to fight it as a committee of inquiry, but also in other aspects, such as the Commission of the Synod of Greuges, which also works, or concrete facts such as Barnahus, with the programs that since the department is a fan, addressed in this case to victims. Therefore, today is a day when, therefore, we must congratulate ourselves on being able to set up the first committee of inquiry on this subject. Obviously, it's always late when we're talking about victims, but in this case, we can set up the first commission of inquiry to be able to do this... we don't have to be happy, because at least here they don't make us for the commissions of inquiry. And, therefore, we need to be able to work together to save the problem and to fight, in this case, because there is no more victim than sexual violence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.240.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.241.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, president... sexual abuse is rape. Save the Children in various studies estimates that between a god and a twenty per cent of the population in Spain has suffered some kind of sexual abuse during their childhood. Surely the myth of sexual abuse is produced in the family sphere. And abuses are present in different areas: in school, in the field of reading, in the field of sport... In fact, they are present in all areas of our life where power relations are produced over one another. Today, the Catalonian Parliament will give an important step to investigate cases of sexual abuse to different institutions and organisations in our country: what consequences it has for victims, how to accompany them, what support it receives from the Administration, how these organisations have acted before cases of sexual abuse, how we prevent them, how we treat them better. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forwarding Units will vote in favour of this committee of inquiry which, as its objective indicates, wants to investigate the cases of petitions to England, in the educational, reading and sports fields. We want to know everything. We want to know everything that has happened in cases that count on our most absolute, most energetic rebuff of our parliamentary group. England in our country has recognized cases of sexual abuse after years of silence and impunity. He has asked for forgiveness of the victims and now for his maximum cooperation in the enlarging of the facts of which he is accused. It is probably the best favor that the Church can do to herself. The Parliament therefore joins other initiatives such as the Government of the State, as well as other European countries, and also the own Church, in order to clarify the facts. But what I said to them: we want to know everything. We want to know the cases that have occurred in England, but also the cases that have occurred at the sports clubs of our country, some of them of great magnitude. Also in the field of children, from protection to childhood; we have examples in Catalonia and other autonomous communities. Or also in the field of education; we did so in some proposal of the previous legislature on this subject. It is very important for us to investigate whether the resources offered by the Administration are sufficient, whether the protection protocols apply, how victims are repaired, whether they are repaired, how public powers act in protecting children suffering from sexual violence. Because for us the most important thing is to act before the vault or against the vault. Both the international legislation of children's rights and our own legislation in Catalonia, the rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, tell us that we must strive to put the interest of the child in an important way, in a central way, in our protection policies. The important thing is to investigate the bust. We can't tell him, to a boy or girl who had been abused or who had been abused in the sport field, that we wouldn't investigate his case because this abuse did not occur in the ecclesiastical field. It's not fair. We can't do it, we can't do it. And that's why our reviews have been on the line of increasing the scope of action; each with its specificities, but sexual violence is the same. The important thing is to investigate cases of sexual abuse in Catalonia. And this was the title proposal that we did, that we have not finally reached an agreement and, therefore, we have a title to a commission that is only partial, that speaks of an object of investigation, but this commission has more objects of investigation, more scope of investigation. Second of all, investigating sexual abuse is not investigating anything. You need to be sensitive, you need to have special knowledge. We are not before an administration, we are not before a negligent action by an administration. We are faced with very complicated cases, in which entities and professionals in our country carry many years of work, and from here the second proposal of our parliamentary group, to incorporate experts in this committee, which also, moreover, allows our Rules of Parliament. Finally, I would like to send a message to the victims. Probably his expectations are only partially absolved by a forceful act of justice. But we as Members and Members must do what we can, and our commitment is this, to do everything in our competence to clarify the important facts that have happened. There have been many years of parliamentary initiatives of different governments urging the Government of Catalonia to take action on cases of sexual abuse. Barnahus is a good project, but we in Catalonia have a law that protects infants and adolescents who wear twelve years approved without regulatory deployment and without economic endowment. Therefore, we also need to set ourselves before the prospect of whether we are able to respond to such important and significant facts as sexual abuse in Catalonia and, therefore, part of this investigation also has it with us or for us as administration. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.242.0	Then, to fix its position, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.243.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone. With regard to the motion for a resolution presented to us by Esquerra Republicana, the CUP and In Comú Puem, setting up a commission of inquiry into pederasty in the Catholic Church, I would first like to speak as a father. I have the immense fortune of having children. It's the most precious gift I could ever aspire to. And I can tell them that it looks like they're tearing my heart apart every time I hear, every time I see news about sexual abuse of children. Because, besides, I think the victims could have been my own children. As a Member, I would now like to say that from VOX we condemn all child sexual abuse, come from where it comes from, and demand that those responsible be brought to justice at the earliest possible speed and that they spend the rest of their days in prison without any kind of mitigating factor. [[Some applause.]] However, this motion for a resolution is the transmission belt of a report by the Sindico de Greuges, which was presented a few weeks ago in committee, extremely tendentious and subjective, which, among other things, says literally: "There is no correspondence between the number of victims who have addressed the commission and the actual number of cases, since there are indications of a much higher number of victims than the commission has not been able to determine from the documentation studied. Indications? Where are the objective, empirical data that demonstrate this premise? Man, we're talking about some very serious, very serious issues. Don't trivialize, please. I will then give you an objective data. The report of the ANAR Foundation entitled "Sexual abuse in childhood and adolescence according to those affected and its evolution in Spain between 2008 and 2019, states that only 0.2_per_cent – I repeat: only 0.2_per_cent – of the cases of sexual abuse in Spain have occurred within the Catholic Church. However, this proposal by Esquerra, CUP, common places the focus on that 0.2_per_cent. Why not look at 99,8_per_cent of cases where there is no sexual abuse in the Church? [[Some applause.]] What a shame! What a lack of objectivity! In the proposal they speak of the lack of inaction of the Catholic Church; another lie. The Church has already initiated an external audit of allegations of abuse in the Church. In addition, the President of the Spanish Episcopal Conference, Cardinal Omella, in the inaugural speech of the 119th Plenary Assembly said: "Sexual abuse is a real social scourge that requires a thorough analysis and a good diagnosis, free from demagogic and ideological sectarianisms. Well, in short, a marked sectarianism is detected in you, a crude reference to the Catholic Church, for it only wants to issue a monographic report on abuses in the Catholic Church, but not in the context of other religious confessions. And in the demonization of the Catholic Church, the lords of the PSC and Junts also collaborate, bringing to light their secular anticlericalism by sweetening this motion for a resolution, incorporating teaching centers and monitors, sports centers, lleure... Why don't they talk about abuses in the centers? As has happened in the Balearic Islands or in the Valencian Community and which in this Parliament have not been concerned either with denouncing or condemning. [[Some applause.]] The Church – I finish with this – has as its central mission to foster communication between man and his creator, God, through the risen Christ, and to nourish a living and transcendent hope for the salvation of souls. Moreover, although the Church is not another factor in the construction of this world, it contributes a great deal to that construction. Why do they not make public recognition of the enormous charitable and caring work done by the Catholic Church in Spain? And I will not list here the amount of social and charitable activity. I just end by saying that, in the end, we will vote against, for the anti-Catholic sectarianism of Republican Squerra, of Comú Puem, of the CUP, of the PSC, Junts, and because, moreover, the Parliament is not the place to investigate crimes, that is what the courts are for. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.244.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.245.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that this intervention is not an easy one. The truth is that when one is engaged in politics he necessarily has to, as Paul Iglesias says, ride contradictions, and, indeed, I am obliged to do so on this occasion. But, as Ortega and Gasset said: "I am I and my circumstances or I am I and my circumstance, and if I do not save her I do not save myself. And, therefore, I have to speak with my heart in my hand and say that, indeed, our parliamentary group was clear from the very beginning that the proposal put forward by the groups of the commons, the UPC, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana was a proposal aimed fundamentally at fueling that rancid discourse of militant anticlericalism, that discourse of using as a scapegoat to the Catholic Church, of all evils. And, certainly, we were clear that before that we were going to vote a no as a paid house. It is true that in the meantime there have been some compromise amendments tabled by the Junts per Catalunya Group and by the Socialist Group which, in our view, give the text another dimension. We need to analyse each of the policies and proposals we face with an analytical spirit, with the will to be able to serve the citizenry in the best of ways. And in the face of a situation and a problem, in the face of a phenomenon as dramatic as that of pederasty, one of the most vile, execrable and despicable crimes that a society can suffer – I also say this as a father of a family, as Mr Acosta said – one cannot but do an introspection exercise, an exercise of joint reflection with his parliamentary group and conclude that, given the changes made in this proposal thanks to these compromise proposals submitted by two parliamentary groups, we cannot but vote in favour of this proposal. I think that's the way one should face these kinds of circumstances, which, I insist, are not comfortable. Because it seems to me that the initial proposal, without the transactions, was a proposal, I insist, that what I intended was basically that: to continue feeding an anti-clerical discourse, to continue feeding a discourse of demonization, of criminalization of the Catholic Church, to forget all the good that it has done to Spanish society and to Catalan society the Catholic Church, to forget the work that many priests, many religious do, that what they do fundamentally is to serve society as they know best. That's why we're going to be on this committee. And in that committee we will ensure..., I understand that along with other parliamentary groups whose intellectual and moral honesty I do not doubt; that of others either, but in this particular matter especially with the group of Socialists for the transactions they have presented. We will ensure that this commission does not become a coven against the Catholic Church. For us it is very important, I say it to you personally and I say it to you as an agnostic deputy of this chamber. I am not saying this from a Catholic denominational militancy, but precisely from the agnostic and liberal militancy that characterizes our party. I sincerely believe that it must be possible to criticize, question pederasty..., not criticize it, condemn it with all the hardness, of all the criminals who have committed such crimes, I insist, vile, execrable and despicable, without using the Catholic Church as a scapegoat. Because, as Mr Acosta de VOX explained very well, in fact, in the Catholic Church there is only a very small percentage of these crimes, of these crimes. And, for that reason, we believe that we must put things on their right terms. Having said that, I shall return to the beginning of the speech. When the terms, the parameters of the proposal change substantially thanks to some of the compromise proposals, as a responsible group, what we cannot do is to maintain the same position that we had planned to hold in this debate if the proposal had continued as proposed by the proposers. That is why we have decided to change the meaning of our vote. We will ensure that this commission is truly a commission of inquiry into the crime of pederasty as a whole, in all areas in which it occurs, not only in that of the Catholic Church, but not a coven in which the Catholic Church is criminalized and stoned, but simply serves the citizenry to focus on a crime as execrable, as despicable as that of pederasty. I would like to stress the responsibility of the parliamentary groups in this House to assume their functions as public servants. And we, as public servants, will certainly never let the victims of such crimes feel helpless by this Parliament and, to the extent possible, we will try to help that committee come to truly conclusive, non-sectarian, non-manichean and non-biased conclusions. That is our firm will and our vote will finally be in favour of this proposal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.246.0	And finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.247.0	Thank you, President. Pederasticism, the band of repulsive, indecent and immoral, is criminal. And, therefore, there is always the question of where to start and the role of justice ends and where political institutions can intervene. We are in front of a question where we believe that they do give the conditions for this intervention, but the key question is which institution is the most important. Because, as a matter of fact, we must seek to guarantee rights, freedom and reparation for victims. And from this point of view, we are defending that the Ombudsman is the most dedicated institution to make this task. In fact, it is what we voted for as the People's Party at the Congress of Deputies, it is what we ask of the Parliament of Catalonia and we remember that the Ombudsman has this burden of public power to do his task, which is a task, I insist, to guarantee rights, freedom and reparation for victims. We do not believe that a commission of inquiry in the Parliament of Catalonia is the instrument. Among other things because, as I said a while ago and here, therefore, gathering what Mr. Nacho Martín says, but disagreeing with it, we are very afraid that for a lot of efforts that Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco and other members have made, this has actually turned into a coven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.248.0	Well, then, finally, then, to indicate which text leads to the vote and which items are accepted, Mrs Jessica González, on behalf of the three proposing groups, will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.249.0	Very quickly. Thank you, President. The agreed transactions will be integrated into the final text that we will vote on. To answer the questions, please reiterate your gratitude to the Socialist Group and Unites for moving forward and to Junts per Catalunya for the support, and to the rest of the groups, too, who have joined this initiative. We insist, since we have members of the Government here – the Councillor and the President – on the need to deepen the policies of accompanying victims. Many times the data we have, we have based them, precisely, on a percentage of very low complaints, because they give us the victims yesterday that, precisely, institutional follow-up has been nil, has not been, and we hope that through initiatives such as Barnahus and other mechanisms that still need to be created we may have more information and more complaints to act and, above all, to prevent. This commission will not be a coven, it will not be a way of persecution against the king. We will not tire of saying that here the object is not to investigate Catholic England for itself, as in the institution, but precisely because it has not collaborated historically, and also for the relations and power it has held. Therefore, the expansion of the focus proposed for us by Juntes for Catalonia and the Socialist Party will not imply a desire to dilute the main objective of the proposal. We will work and seek an appropriate and respectful methodology with victims, and in the deepening of all lines of analysis, prioritizing England. And the ultimate goal will be because no more childhood has to go through the horror of pederasty, because no more institution, neither public nor private, allows the violation of the rights of children to be more functional. Many thanks for supporting this pioneering committee in the State that wants to take the first step in a true, just, and repair exercise. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.250.0	Well, then, when the debate is over, we shall now proceed to the vote on a motion for a resolution setting up a commission of inquiry into the pederasty in England. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution was adopted by 116 votes to 13 with 1 abstention. [[Greetings.]] Yes, Mr. Swordler, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.251.0	Yes, according to Rule 103.3 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make an explanation of vote, since I must have seen that I voted differently from my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.252.0	You have a minute and a half to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.253.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the first place, I would like to leave clear and round conscience of the need to stand firm in that which I can now represent in the name of Unites per Avance in the phenomenon of pederastia, which is absolutely execrable, and which, obviously, we condemn in an absolutely round way, is produced in the field that is produced, followed by that of England, followed by that of the family, followed by any other field, like the many that have expressed themselves; and it has been produced at the time that it has been produced. It means that the Criminal Code... so many of these cases, sadly, prescribe, but in any case, our sentence is in all spheres, in all fronts and at any time, whether it's a week ago or sixty years ago that it's been produced. Secondly, we want to express our support and our commitment, therefore, to all the victims who have suffered from this scourge, and to express the need and the will that we, like the parliamentary group, have to investigate, certainly, to prosecute and bring before the courts all the cases that can, obviously, be brought. And to express also the will and our commitment to accompany the victims in the measure, therefore, that we are taking over, and to do this repair exercise, that I think is certainly very difficult to repair a damage as irreparable as this is, isn't it? My party is defined as a humanist and a democracy. I never imagined my condition as a practicing Catholic person. With humanists, we cannot and do not want to oppose these cases being investigated. But also from the same conditions as he had previously called, especially as the Christian-inspired party and as the humanist party, we would not like to join in that for some, who are not for all, they can end up feeling a hint of expression..., someone has used the expression "chamber". I do not use this expression, but as a fence, hunt, therefore, to a collection, which is in this case the Church, which does have much to be forgiven in this, it does have much, therefore, to work in this sense, but it also has that face of proximity with the most vulnerable. That's the meaning, then, of the forbearance I've done a few moments ago. I thank him for the opportunity to explain it, as I also thank my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.254.0	Thank you, Mr. Swordler. [[Question to the Government on policies relating to children's rights and opportunities]] [[300-00154/13]] So they used the word in order to express the sentiment of their vote, let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government about the policies relating to the rights and opportunities of childhood, which has been presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, and has the word, to make the presentation, Mrs Jessica Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.255.0	Nice late again, Counselor. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today we have this inquiry into the rights of childhood specifically speaking of three aspects, which I hope will give me time to develop in this first part: prevention, attention and rights or opportunities. And when we talk about prevention, we will focus above all on the prevention, naturally, of the poor child, which is a scourge that deeply affects us in Catalonia. And we know that the main causes, the main sources of the poor that affect childhood and adolescence are three, mainly: the job insecurity of their mothers and fathers, many times single-parent families; the excessive cost of housing, as well as the historical deficit in public spending on children and social protection policies for their families. And in the imagination collection sometimes continues to dominate this idea that infants and adolescents are their families, that privately and kindly do what they can to raise their children. It is true that families are primarily responsible for caring for children, but administrations have an obligation to support them when they are questioning their rights at the right level of life. That's to say, when the tickets don't arrive, families need economic support to be able to make their role and take care of infants and adolescents. The poor child has many cares – infrahabitation, poor nutrition, school failure – and to eradicate it therefore implies complex actions, specific policies and also integral ones. And this situation, of course, is in the hands of the institutions. To confront the poor in childhood with strategies that work and transform material conditions is obviously complex and calls for multiple public policy actions, but the fact is that we have not managed to develop a childhood policy that gives broad public support. Among other things, with a return policy that will adequately weigh the fact of having fewer children and ensuring sufficient resources for children and children to grow and live in a healthy and dignified way. The rate of child poverty in Catalonia is thirty-four per cent and particularly affects unemployed families. But, also, precariousness and atypical and poor-quality contracts make the job no longer a guarantee to get out of the poor, and precisely Spain and Catalonia present the lowest taxes on working poor for families at European level. And, more than that, many of the policies developed have fallen into the care of municipal social services, many times without sufficient resources or skills to make ambitious policies. And in this line, in the line of rendering policies, of different social entities, in general, and particularly of childhood, as well as unions, research platforms, social movements and more agents of civil society in general, have recommended and insisted that the guaranteed income of citizens should be changed with speed in order to increase the benefit for children. And, before this worrying situation we have here, the Parliament of Catalonia since July has a proposal to change the guaranteed income of citizens for our parliamentary group. And you, Counselor, when we asked you about this question, you said that the Citizenship Guaranteed Income Governance Commission is the body that should regulate and decide, in any case, in which direction this change should be made. So the truth is that members of the same government commission have come close and they have felt and understood a strategy of delay on the part of the Government of the Government of Catalonia for which it makes this change, also recalling that the Government has the impulse of meetings and of marking certain calendars, and marking the rhythm of the commission. So, what are we waiting for, Counselor, to make this change? And in the later months, due to the acceleration of the inequalities caused by the pandemic, we have different reports – and we cannot say that we do not have any information – from the Greuges Synod, from many entities, that make an appreciation in the line of expanding the amounts of guaranteed income from citizenship; of unifying its processing, also, with minimal vital input; of expanding the requirements so that many people benefit and so many families, that many of them have children in charge, can receive this benefit. You, Counselor, are already wearing a year in charge of this Department of Social Rights. Could you tell us exactly how many points... what information do you have of how many points has the poor child lowered, taking into account the policies that have taken place from your department? You have repeatedly spoken of a Catalan strategy against the poor, which, for the most part, we do not see. We haven't seen this strategy, we don't know what it's about, so we never saw this social action plan that President Aragonès announced in his investment agreement and that we're still waiting for. So, what is the specific action to eradicate and prevent, above all, the poor child? Because we haven't just made ourselves clear. And here, from Comú We can be clear enough and bet to strengthen more than ever the guaranteed income of the citizenry, to modify it, to maximize the possibilities of compatibility with the vital minimum ingredient, so that it reaches unattended collections, get more attention to the situations surviving from the poor and increase protection to all beneficiary families, lock in, therefore, the infants. We are making this proposal because until now the guaranteed income of citizenship has not been effective in the struggle against the extreme poor, and the effects of the crisis caused by the coward will further worsen this situation. And with the best we propose, especially with regard to the increase in the quantity per child, with the extra help for housing and with the reduction of the time to access it by foreign families, according to Save the Children's data, at the level of severe child poverty, Catalonia could be reduced to half, if we make a change in the guaranteed income of citizens. What are you waiting for, Counselor? What is the Social Rights Department waiting for to push, too, once and for all, this guaranteed income of citizenship? When we have it, it's an element we've already created to fight the poor child and prevent it. And, in this line, we also continue with the Catalan sufficiency income indicator, the IRSC, which is the amount of the Generality that we fix..., we should fix annually as a bar to allow access to different social aids. And we've had it frozen since 2010 and its calculation doesn't happen since its creation in 2006. So, we're fighting against the present poor with the numbers of two years ago... he forgives: twelve years ago. We were told that the IRSC would update the IPREM once more. The IPREM advanced to the State, and, for the time being, the IRSC remains the same. Since 2010, moreover, it does not update with the IPC, and it is a decision with which it tried to contain the expense. That's like a covered-up flap. And, in fact, you were not to include the IRSC in the Generality's assumptions until In Common We can be incorporated into the negotiation. We were able to introduce the issue with a compromise that the first six-months would be pushed forward, and we're at the top, counselor. This is another tool the government has to prevent the poor child, and we're still waiting for the calendar or the plan in this sense. We have families, children and children living in infra-habitats, without the possibility of paying the bills of the light, without the possibility of having options of light and oci. Will we expect, therefore, counsel, a wave of suicides for this lack of institutional action on the part of the Generality? The second block has to see with the attention services – we have moved from prevention to attention. And here, two paragraphs: the first, on the protection system, which should guarantee socio-affective, emotional development, in terms of acquittal; also the professionals, who make a very complex pocket, therefore, also have decent working conditions and can do their job in an optimal way. We need to figure out what is the real purpose of these centres and the people they work with; it should be the full follow-up of minors who are victims of all kinds of abuse, avoiding the assistanceism or paternalism that is now present. And here we are particularly concerned about this program, right? , that Mossos d'Esquadra can enter residential centers; it seems to us that it should not be the line. Young people who have been vulnerable, why... we need less police and more educators. We have an overflow of immediate pandemic services, now also with the crisis in Ukraine, and we want to know what measures have been put in place with the learning of the covid. Did they expand resources to services such as the Child Abuse Detection and Prevention Unit, or to child and adolescent care teams, or to Child Response? Have they stayed? I'll leave it here for now, and I'll ask the councilwoman more questions in the next block. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.256.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. So now there's the word on the answering wheel the social rights counselor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.257.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP, so very well, I have an inquiry here to talk about policies, rights and opportunities of childhood, an inquiry that you have based on prevention, attention and rights and opportunities. To say them, only to place it, that we, when we speak of childhood, also speak of childhood and adolescence, and, moreover, we have in mind that the realities of childhood and adolescence are different, not only territorially, according to the place we live, but also, as you commented, depending on the families and the degree of vulnerability of families. In Catalonia we have 1,400,000 young, infants, 900,000 of whom are infants from zero to eleven years old, and boys... or infants and minors who are at risk of unprotected status are 25,000, 6,000 of whom are at risk. Of these children, 7,800 are cared for by the Generalitat; 4,196, who are in residential centers; 2,318, who are in extended families, and 951, who are in alien families. He gave these data, therefore, to remind them that from the department, and precisely from the DGAIA, he works in different spheres of action. They talk about the four feet: prevention – which you have also not talked about – participation, promotion and protection. Remember that Catalonia, since the year 2010, has an ambitious law; an ambitious law to guarantee the rights of children and their opportunities, childhood and adolescence. Before, Mr. Moreno said that we had not deployed, therefore, the rules of this law. Just comment that April 5th passed for the government the deployment of the law, and, therefore, we do have the law of the child deployed. But it is true that we need to update it and we need to update some data; among other things, because the law was the year 2010, and 2013 is when the childhood pact was signed – that's what it was two years ago. During these two years many things have passed; among other things, digitalization, feminist perspectives or climate change, which lead us to the need to be able to review this childhood pact precisely to update it, and to update it in some of the issues that you have raised with us now. Updating it also in the matter of mental salvation – we haven't talked many times. The covid has impacted in a very direct way in our country, and especially to adolescents and children, and, therefore, from the department we are clear. But we are also clear that we cannot do it alone, from the Department of Social Rights to the Directorate-General for Children and Adolescents, but we must do it with the rest of the political actors, parliamentary groups, and other departments, and also civil society. For this reason, at these times we are working on the updating of this childhood pact, which must serve us to update all these policies. And the timing of the same is that during this month of May-June, therefore, the engine group is being formed to be able to analyze this update; in September-October we will draw up the basic documents that will be propitious for us to start this debate, and then, between November and March 2023, coincide with the two years of the Children's Pact, we will be able to reach this consensus, and consensus as a country, so that we can reach all these needs that you pointed out and that from the department, obviously, we do not flee. You said the poor child is poor child. I repeat that it is true: it is poor childish, but it is very associated with the poor of families. And, unfortunately, some of the actions... if we want to fight this poor child, we need to be able to fight the poor of families. And that's not just from the Directorate-General..., the DGAIA, to hear us about childhood policies; they also comply with vulnerability policies – and you were talking about guaranteed citizenship income – and they also comply with housing policies. And you know that as a department – and they are not easy, housing policies – we are compromised in trying to provide maximum resources for housing policies, not only in construction, to dedicate it to social logue, but also in logue support policies, which, in a certain way, also reverse, therefore, these difficulties of childhood. He was talking to me about the guaranteed income of citizenry. We have commented that the review of this guaranteed citizenship income is to be made from its own government commission. In the next meeting, the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth and the Director General will also participate in these working groups to be able to analyze how we can help children through guaranteed income from citizenship. Therefore, we do not take away our responsibilities, but we believe, and I believe it at least firmly, that it can be a good tool to help get out of this poor child. The rent has shortcomings, we know them; we know them and they are also analyzing them. As you know, it is a subjective and subsidiary right; therefore, all people who have right and access it take the help that this return allows. And we just need to analyze why not all of us can ask for this guaranteed income. At the same time, we must also try to make it compatible – and we are also working on it – with the vital minimum ingredient, which must be able to help us – and you know it – to complement this guaranteed income, which would, in a way, help us to free resources. Therefore, from the department and from the secretary and the general direction we are firmly compromised in the struggle against this poor child and know that it is not an easy task; among other things, because, as we said, it is a task to be done with the government's conjunction. The anti-poor strategy is not only the Department of Social Rights, but – you said so yourself – there are also housing policies, many times health policies, work policies, which must help us, therefore, to do all this. Among others of the questions that are due to the end of the general direction – and we speak before, therefore, the four" feet – another of the best in which we are working is in the best of the protection system. As I said, the DGAIA at this time is protecting more than 7,800 infants, and we know that our priority is precisely these infants. And one of the best things that's working at these times is evaluating your own system. We believe – and one of the ‘participation' was also – that one of the main tools to be able to accompany infants and adolescents is this participation, to make them partakers of their policies and, above all, of the places where they live, and the places where at these times they are protected, so they are places where they see infants and adolescents. And, therefore, we believe that this participation is essential not only for professionals, but also for infants. In this line of things, we're also working on the best plan of the childhood and adolescence care system. And this better plan is more prevention and early detection, more work with families, more restoration, more participation of children and families, more education and training, more emancipation and social inclusion, more care for professionals, more planning and evaluation, and, ultimately, more right and more attention to welfare. Among the actions we want to incorporate in this plan of improvement, is to work, as you commented, in sexual rapes. This isn't a new tool. Actually, it's a pilot plan that's already been working for over a year and that's working in Tarragona. And as, unfortunately – and said unfortunately for the number of cases, but not for the willingness to bring these cases out – it went well. Before the control committee, the president remembered: more than three hundred cases of children and young people working, precisely, in these centres working with children who are victims of sexual abuse. And as I've already mentioned some other time, we'll make a deployment all over the territory, on all occasions, with twelve Barnahus on all occasions. Millions of the system with the participation of the children, as I said. Bets on accolades: we have to make sure that there are more accolades in our country. Millions of the communication between the Generality and the children, or the evaluation of the protection system, as was also mentioned, or we support the provision of guards. So, great opportunities. Others of the work that is also due to the end of the department, and not all depend on the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, but, in this case, the deployment of the model of the socio-educational service, a service that has been very well rejected. The places of Catalonia where it ended... Just with the contract program that we are working with all the basic areas – one hundred and fifteen basic areas of our country – we are trying to make this deployment throughout Catalonia. This is a help and a socio-educational support for the most vulnerable children and young people in our country. And another of the best will be to expand family therapies through EAIAs. Therefore, the protection and prevention system that you claimed, from the department we are working and we are trying to bring it forward. And in the next part of the intervention, therefore, I would have just broken down the policies that we are due to eventually.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.258.0	Thank you, Counselor. And in the turn of the reply has the word Mrs Jessica Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.259.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, I continue with some of the questions that I have left pending to announce about the inquiry as such, and then I will refer to some of the aspects that you have now considered. We were talking and we were getting into the issue of the protection system, the lessons after, how the protection system and the invasion of Ukraine may or may not have incorporated the system of assembly. And what he's shown us is that it's possible. In fact, last week, in the Commission for Children, the Director of DGAIA reported that Ukrainian children have had a special and differentiated circuit because they come from a different situation, because they come from a war. And here we'd really like to make an incis. And it's that institutional rapes are not just in the form of bombings and wars. Violence is also that a child does not have the possibilities, conditions to develop his life project because his territory has been spoiled due to the economic interests of the West, for example. Because Europe has had an active and complicity role not only in the situation of Ukraine, but in most cases all the conflicts we have in the world, and has not acted with speed, on the part of the European Union, neither of the Spanish State nor of Catalonia, leaving many children in a situation of vulnerability, while these have neither white eyes nor white hair. So we should not talk about international solidarity, we should talk about co-responsibility. In any case, it is normal for the system to be flexible to respond to new realities, but we cannot be building a new circuit for each new situation following the origin of the infants, but we must be able to build a circuit that can take into account the diversity of origins, realities or personal situations. Why at the end of these practices is to homogenize the people who are of the same origin and the one who ends up producing are circuits according to the origin, and that could not be, right? So, was it necessary to have a circuit for young migrants alone, for example, from the Maghreb, different from those born in Catalonia or Ukraine? Don't you need a today? What do you think, in this sense, counsel? Who will change above all the protection system, taking into account the lessons that follow? And changing the subject, and getting into the themes too of attention and, in this case, into the early detection and care centers focused on childhood, which is a service that works in Catalonia and that today there are more than 43,000 infants, this same week, or last week, to the Social Rights Commission, we approved the fact that funding is expanding. It's totally underfunded right now, isn't it? The number of hours and services loaned has increased by only one percent in the last few years, and the consequences are: an involvement in the decrease in attendance frequency, progress in the finalization of treatments, the impossibility to offer attention up to six years, and in the words of the UCCAP, the Catalan Union of Child Development and Early Care Centres, the professionals who have five children have to attend and for some time, because the resources are not enough. The government has made a commitment to increase resources and we would like to know for when. And the third block of the inquiry, counsel, has to do with the rights and opportunities. You see with the residential models, with the open centres, with the SIS model, which you yourself have addressed, right? , and in particular one point: we should prevent open centres and the SIS model from generating more segregation. Now we have children derived from..., are children and children derived from social services with a situation of vulnerability that does not favor social interaction because they are spaces where..., impoverished families, and there are no other profiles. Therefore, we need to move towards a more permeable model, which will respond to situations, such as the Barcelona Assembly initiative, to ensure universal and widespread access to out-of-school activities, to expand the offer, to universalize and to make more equitable access to education in the classroom. It can't be another realm of segregation. Prioritizing, of course – of course – families in a vulnerable situation and making the observation and accompanying that is required by the service. But they can't generate even more segregation. In short, counselor, we need more prevention. We need a return policy adjusted to the level of social emergence at which we are now the very same and suffering children from Catalonia. We have to walk with more permeable models, emancipators, that promote autonomy, fleeing from the assistanceism that this government is exercising. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.260.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.261.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, let's go concrete. I was talking about the measures we proposed from the department and from the general direction to change the circuits on children coming from Ukraine. It's no change to pretend that there's no difference between children who come from Ukraine and children who come from other places. The only thing that led to this circuit was that, before the demand of many Catalan families to want to bring these children together, and before what it seemed, at first, that there were Catalan families that were going to look for these children in Ukraine, which we did consider, in order to avoid that there could have been traffic of minors, is to adapt that circuit, which is a long circuit, because the families that wanted to attend to or embrace these children at these times of urgency, with the maximum guarantees that they would give. And the only circuit that does this, is to be able to make an initial assessment of the host families to make a follow-up and that allows, therefore, to keep this guard from provisional to definitive guard. But in no case did they have a different treatment. He was talking to me about young migrants alone. I believe that it is not only from the government from which I have the honour to be its adviser, but also from the previous government, from the year 2017, that nine thousand young migrants have arrived in Catalonia alone. At this time 1,700 are still between the protection circuit. The rest are seniors. It is true that also, thanks to the reform of the foreign rule, these young people have a new opportunity, because after this majority of years they will be able to have their full life, taking into account that they have work permits and residence permits. And in this will that you said that there are no differences between some young people and others, from the generality of Catalonia we do not want young people either first or second depending, above all, on their place of origin. On March 15th, a government agreement was approved on the creation of the table for young people in a vulnerable situation. A table that they claim is to care for all young people who are in a vulnerable situation, wherever their place of origin is. So, let's go on this same line. It also seemed to me that he was talking to us about the need to increase CDIAP hours. We're also working on this issue. In a few days I guess we can get them to say where there's going to be a decrease in seats and also in that sense. Therefore, we are aware of the demand of the service; it is a good service and therefore we will try to increase it as much as possible. On the proposal to be submitted to me by the SIS. Well, for the time being, it's a space to be able to care for the most vulnerable children, to be able to give them an afternoon stay. Let's try, for now, to deploy the service, which is not deployed in all of Catalonia, so in this line. But it's true that we don't only work with infants and young people from these vulnerable people's services. Since the Directorate-General for Youth, I want to remind you that one of its specific features is education in higher education – education in higher education – where there are children from all backgrounds and from all economic situations, and that, in any case, from the Directorate-General what it is to do is to take these children so that everyone can participate in the same conditions. But it is not only from the Directorate-General of Youth, but also from other directions, such as, for example, the Directorate-General for Civic and Community Action, it is doing some or several programs to assist or accompany children, young people and adolescents, for example, and taking advantage of the equipment we have distributed throughout the country. Historical programs such as the "Play and discover" program, that at these times, therefore, it is due to end in twenty-nine equipments; a program for young people, which is due to end in eleven equipments, or all the states and all the activities that it is doing in the equipments and that it is doing entities of the third sector, and that therefore they accompany these children, or the activities that it is also fan between the integral plan of the Gypsy people. Therefore, from the whole department, regardless of whether, obviously, the skills are of the Directorate General of Child and Adolescent Care, it is also work accompanying from the different resources that we have in the department in order to be able to work, precisely, to achieve this child welfare, this child participation, this child care and this child prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.262.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the financing of the third social sector]] [[300-00156/13]] Let us, therefore, turn to the eighth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the financing of the third social sector, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units have presented in order to advance. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.263.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... ma'am will advise, this late you have a lot of work to do in this Parliament. It has three questions followed by social issues. It's a good sign, under our eye. There's concern about the social situation in Catalonia, and you're the most responsible for making it better, aren't you? Today it is up to me to ask her about the situation of the third social sector, to convey to her, in fact, the difficulties in which this sector finds itself. Probably, I believe that we share the importance that the third social sector has for Catalonia, for the implementation of the current social protection policies, but I also believe that we mutually recognize the role that the third social sector has played in building our social protection system historically. Catalonia probably wouldn't be like if it wasn't for our third-sector social fabric. We would probably have more difficulty, like public administration, in donating services that we ourselves demand from the laws and that at these times they are lending to the entities of the third sector. It is a collection of people, professionals, who are present to our cities, who do a lot of work to make protection come to everyone, to all the cities, to all the towns, many times in a disinterested way, many times through volunteers and volunteers who carry or place part of their time free in this pocket. So, all of our recognizance. And I think we're in full agreement here. It's a third sector that groups..., little joke, because when you see the figures I think we can give it a little context. There are three_ thousand entities in Catalonia with more than one hundred_ thousand workers, with an economic volume of 5,500_million euros – this is a 2.8_percent of Catalan GDP – that counts with 300,000 volunteers and that you serve more than 2_million people in our country. Therefore, it is not a walking sector, it is a sector to take into account, and hence its importance. And, said in another way, if you, madame will advise..., if you, if I, if any of us want to make social policies, we probably have to meet at some point with entities of the third social. And if we want to reduce the inequalities, which are being fired at Catalonia, if we want to guarantee a good attention to childhood – and before they were in this inquiry of the services precisely intended for childhood – we will need the third sector for the care of people with disabilities, for the care of people..., the great people, the children. And you, I insist, have to share this importance of the third sector. Therefore, you will advise, clearly and català: caldria pay in time and form, caldria recognize this importance of the third sector. And the government doesn't do it at these times, it doesn't pay in time and form. I'll explain. The main calls for grants to the third social sector are two: the COSPE, which is called the call for grants for projects and entity activities in the field of social policies, and 0.7 of the IRPF. Since two years ago – therefore, also during his term – these two calls have been published as at least six months late. Best case, huh? Because pay is paid, but it is usually paid at the end of that same year or at the beginning of the next year. Its advisory board then carries the total cost of a year of services to third-sector entities, which are often given in charge of its own administration. They must bear the costs of personnel, expenses, materials, some direct expenses which they have to pay, with maintenance, which causes them to cause heavy stress, concern for workers' and workers' seedlings and a mountain of paperwork, bureaucracy, which affects the slowness and therefore the effectiveness of our protection system. Each year they call you and pay the grant late. And every year start again. And every year is the same It's a cycle that is repeated for activities that, every year, we know we're going to donate again and we know we're going to subsidize again. We are making a short history of a situation of this government of the Generality that is not new – we could go – much further back, but I have taken over the last five years –: 2018, entities are already complaining about delays in payments. At the time, the excuse was 155. 155 had paralyzed everything, and therefore the entities could not be paid in time and form. The following year was no longer so much the wild of the call, the 155, but, effectively, without 155 they also cheated on you to pay. The year 2020, the year of the pandemic, the social entities, the professionals of the social, to which from here I want to recognize their involvement throughout the pandemic, the effort they have made, the dedication they have made from their entities, the volunteers and volunteers that have supported society at a very complicated time and that the institutions have not been up to date in the recognition of their task... So, here's the recognizance. So, well, that year 2020, as much as the Generality paid on behalf of the Government of the State 3,500_million euros to deal with the consequences of the covid, to the third social sector it owed 256_million euros in blocked payments. Sixty_per_cent of the entities pulled close, and thirty-five_per_per_cent asked for loans to the bank. Any 2021– you were already a counselor here–, November 2021: my group's deputy, Ms. Judit Alcalá, asked the government's monitoring session about the complaint that the third social sector had recently made about the payments– €65_million. It was November of last year. You, in your reply, gave some interesting data: that at that time – I insist, November 2021–, it had paid the NOC-five_percent of the 2020 COSPE; that the COSPE of 2021 had not paid for fragmentation in three of its department – we are talking about 25_million euros, huh? – that the call of 2022 of the COSPE would go out at the beginning of any – came out on April 5th. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, no king; I say what you said. I, for what he does to the IRPF, had satisfied the norm-five_per_cent. And you committed yourself to pushing a working group to improve the funding of third-sector entities; a group, counsel, that five months later has not been formed, has not been created. Let's talk about the IRPF. The third sector entities are still waiting for the resolution of the IRPF call for 2021. The resolution and its payment. Madrid, Andalusia, Aragó or Castella and Lleó had already charged the month of March. In fact, when the IRPF was run, all the call at state level, was resolved before starting the year, and this allowed entities to work with economic security. That is to say, when the IRPF managed it, the Government of Spain was charged before it was managed by you. And I put other examples of other calls, such as the investments in the adequacy of the institutions in relation to the year 2020, which was not finally settled and was not paid until the end of the past year; that is to say, more than a year and a half to settle and pay to the entities of €1 million. Mrs. Counselor, what's going on at the Counselor's Office? Why is it impossible to pay subsidies that are the same every year? Why aren't we able to have a payment schedule? Why are we not able to have a certain order, in a thing that you have inherited, but that, in your responsibility, for now we have not seen that you have changed? Therefore, I am convinced that you would like to pay in time and form, but there is something to the council that does not make this possible: either you do not give the necessary instructions or we have an important structural problem in your council that can resolve. And what's worse: it's probably, counsel, you and I know that this year will be the same again. It's just that it's a drama. Clearly, I grow up here... and they ask you, please, to set a little order, and here we will give all our recollection to do so. But it may be before or above the table, first, the constitution of this group with the third sector to see what is the payment plan; the ability to have a payment schedule. It has been many years since this Parliament claimed this payment schedule. The third social sector is not a sector..., it should not be a sector, from the economic point of view, which the government needs in relation to others, that they are charging in time and form, that they do have payment plans. Because an entity without a job does not mean that it does not have a professionalized structure, nor much less, nor that it has a lower status. And the reps are so important to Catalonia, she advises, that we need a strong third sector. Today La Vanguardia published: "Caltalumya instils in eleven indexes of living conditions and work, with data of referents the year 2020 and 2019 of the Idescat. We've already made progress on other occasions: we're going to build. We need active policies that help us reduce inequalities. And the third sector is monamental, and I can give them off and I can help them to what is professional, because, if not, it will be very difficult for them to help us on such important fronts that we have in front of us; that you have, counsel, in front of us; that you have this government, and that we have a group of Members of this House, that, among other things, our objective should be that people can live better. And we can agree on that, but we're not taking the appropriate steps, under our point of view. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.264.0	Then, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.265.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Moreno, yes, it's a complete late. Actually, it's been a full force day. You were a defender of the third social sector and I can assure you that I am also a supporter of the third social sector. Catalonia is a magnificent country that has created its civil society in particular, and especially its organised civil society; therefore, from the department we will do our best to continue working together with the third social sector. And, yes, you are right: we need to improve its financing or, if not, we need to try to improve, as you said, its temporality. In other interventions – and you remembered what they had done to me – we talked about the calendars. He remembered COSPE's payment, which is true that we ended it at the end of the year, and the reality is what I explained to him, I mean, what we explained at that time. The department was split into three different departments, and this was just before the summer, and therefore the difficulty of the different interventions at the time of the fractions led to the fact that the payment of those subsidies, therefore, is due to the end of the year. And I assure you that from the department we worked very hard to be able to finish implementing it. At that time, I committed myself to the COSPE of this year 2022– of COSPES being two: one that is multi-annual, that gives more tranquility and security to the sector, and the other that is annual – we will publish it in the first quarter of 2022. I know it's hard, it hasn't been in the first quarter, because it's been in the beginning of the month of April, but the will is that it was between the first quarter, and, therefore, we will continue to work so that we can keep, as at least, this calendar. Therefore, we are working on this subject. And it's true: we have the resolution of the IRPF summons. They were just working on some of the adjustments. So soon. Now I wouldn't know what to do, and I'd rather not say it, because, if not, you'll ask me again, but soon there'll be the resolution of the IRPF call, and so we'll have some of the financing difficulties that can be solved, so the entities. And as I said, from the department, the whole team is forced to work in this sense. But collaboration with the third sector – and you also remembered it – is not only through entities that support the third sector and also through voluntary entities. Collaboration in the Department and its involvement with social issues is very large and funding lines are also many. You know the data perfectly well, but because all the Members know how it works in finance with these entities, so there is the call of the IRPF, that the year 2020 was 32_millions, more than 32_millions of euros, and the year 21, 34_millions of euros. The call he was commenting on COSPE, the multiannual 21-22 bid EUR 58_million, and the call for this 22, this annual call, bid EUR 19_million_i_mig. Therefore, there is a lot of money that they have, from the Generality, to the different entities in order to be able to do their activities. The band, and, for example, the past year, when there are times of difficulty – and during this stage of the covid there have been times of difficulty –, since the department, in the years 2020-2021, it has paid up to 10_million euros to entities of the third sector that gave support in topics of Banc dels Aliments, the Table of the Third Sector, the Association Obertament, Salut Mental Catalunya, Creu Roja or the different Banc dels Aliments or the Fundació Arrels. Therefore, when there is some time of difficulty, so the department is also next to the entities to be able to help these citizens. But, as I said, one of the difficulties that the department has historically encountered, and it is certainly leading us to these difficulties of managing social services and social issues also to the desire of entities, is that some of the activities, therefore, are done, and it is done through agreements and concerts, which gives security and tranquility. Because, as you said, they are entities that make public services and, therefore, they must be financed correctly, with this legal certainty that you claimed, and that is done through the concerts. But some of the activities are still now, so they are not subject to this regime of concerts, but it is done through grants or collaborating entities. This, for example, also happens to us sometimes with some residential places. In these moments, for some time now, the department is working together with the entities, in a very direct way, to be able to believe many of these entities that at these times you are serving, to be able to move from this subsidy regime, which, as you say, is excessively low, to be able to move on to the concert. So we're working on this line. And we are also working with different entities to be able to review the possible tariffs of some of the services that end up with entities in our country. Therefore, we work together with the entities and the hands of the entities, because we believe in them. In the band, the European foundations – and many times we have. Our department has grown, it has increased by thirty per cent in its budget, but a lot of this budget is not used for this ordinary help of the department's ordinary expenditure. But it is true that European foundations must also serve us in order to be able to give aid to the third sector in certain areas of activity that can be useful to us: a €200_million share for building buildings, but also a €60_million share to help us and to help the sector in this modernisation of personal autonomy. Or another 40_million game that must also be used for pilot projects; pilot projects that are innovative pilot projects in the field of social services. Therefore, from the department we also work in this line and in these grant calls. You also commented: what happens in the department? So it's a department that surely from the departments of the Generalitat is that has a larger volume of processing. Our grants are sometimes small and a small grant brings the same job, many times, that a very large grant. We are talking about 140,000 grant senders, more than one hundred and thousand invoices, more than three thousand contracts; it is a very large volume of work. It's also true that when the department... all departments are trying to digitize. That certainly also encouraged a little bit of this task that's been going on since the department. Another of the parties that must help us to channel all this time we spend in order to be able to do these processes will also come from the hands of the European foundations: up to 30_million euros that we want to spend on the modernization of the entire information system that will allow us to process much more smoothly. Because, as you said, it is not only the entities that need to know – the entities or the sector – what are the resources they will have, and how to know it better at the beginning of the year, but also how to deal with these aids, much better. And many times it's not just a matter of assumptions, but it's a matter of administrative processing. So we're working, we're moving forward. It hasn't been a year since we've been to the government, I know it's no excuse, but we're working on the line you've been telling us yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.266.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.267.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Actually, I think the analysis of the difficulties... we have them, we know who they are, and, therefore, what it is to solve it. Look, the billing volume and contract volume of your department has probably increased in the last few years – I think that's it, I don't have the keys, but I have this intuition and I'm probably not wrong –; the way to process them is pleistocene. This story that social life and that social policy cannot be modernized, puts me on the nerves. Honestly, I'm telling you. And, therefore, I have already said in your..., in some other questions, the 30_million euros for the modernisation and digitalization of the social sector, as much of your department as of social services, is probably the best policies that we can do in the future to make the system more effective. No problem if it's thirty as if it's forty, the ones you need; our recovery because that's what it is. Now, as this happens, it's not immediate, knowing – and he didn't say no – that this year we'll probably have the same problems of delay in the payment of grants, for projects that we know they'll have to set aside the 1st generation of 2023, we could start doing something. In the first place, I suggest you..., and after this inquiry you also foresee that there will be a reason for us to ask you, among other things, to make your commitment to see together the entities of the third sector and to agree on a payment schedule for the third sector, if it can be multi-annually we have given a giant step. Second. How to do it to do it right and to do it in time? If we don't know how to do it or we haven't found the solution, we should probably go to Aragó, we should go to Madrid, we should go to Andalusia or even Castella and Lleó. Miri, I'm setting up autonomous communities of all political colors. Because those who do well and from the management point of view are effective, maybe we don't have to learn anything. Two weeks ago I went down to València and I saw myself with political leaders of the Socialist Party Valencia, also of Compromis, to see how they had been able to reduce the dependency lists in a forty_per_cent in a year. We did, after sending to the alternate government a plan to reduce the waiting lists. That, yes, indeed, they are money, the money helps to reduce, but basically they reduced them by making the administration process more effective. Now don't take advantage of it, let's say, and come out here to explain that you're working on this reduction in the administration of the law of dependency, which seems very good to me; but we're always moving on from the promises of "we're working and we're not getting to the realization. I put it just as an example to let you know that, probably, if we make some administrative reform, that it has nothing to do with putting economic resources, but if it does make the circuit more efficient, we are solving a significant part of the life to the entities of the third sector. And it's pretty likely... I don't tell him to pay when he plays anymore, just that the entities know when they'll charge. And that doesn't have to be so hard. Among the thousands of people you'd work and work that you could have at the council, you'd have to give the order that you want this to be effective and want this to be... that we know when we'll get the money, when they'll get the money, when they'll publish the subsidies. Look, you were talking about that we actually have a lot of entities in the grant method and that they should move on to the concert method. Okay. Will we have the law of concertation? The preparation pond? I get it all, counselor, they say yes to me, they say no to me. I'd love for you to put a little black on white, tell us clearly whether we'll keep it or not. And so this process can continue because entities can move from grant to concert. But, I insist, this is a process... this is a process that will cheat for a while and maybe we're talking about years. I ask you, Counselor, that you are on this subject, concretely, that we can prove from here to a few months as, effectively, you have given the instructions and made the necessary studies because those grants that we know we will have on a given date, that we know that the entities will ask them on a given date, that other autonomous communities manage them before us, that when they are managed by the Government of the State they donate before they are managed by the autonomous community... so we can probably make the calendars much more reasonable than they have produced at these times. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.268.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, has the word lady advisor Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.269.0	Concrete, come on, let's go. On COSPE, the deadline for submission of requests ends on May 4. On the IRPF, tomorrow and the sale there is the valuation commission; therefore, the provisional resolution will surely come out next week, we will try to follow the Tuesday. He was also talking about the law, he was talking about the law of concertation. We have some laws, some that will be processed from the Parliament of Catalonia, that the entities have preferred, therefore, to process them through proposals of law. And we, as the department, will be at the side of parliamentary groups if we need them, so that we can give them up. One of the laws, the law of social economy, therefore, is dealt with by the Department of Enterprise and Work. And the law of concertation, which we are working on so that we can briefly present the preliminary memorandum to the Government, we are dealing with it from the Department of Social Rights. Therefore, yes, there will be law of concertation. At these times neither is the sector unprotected, because there is a decree. Therefore, we must make the translation and improve, if possible, the decree, in order to transform it into a law. Therefore, these, surely, are some of the concrete things that you were commenting on. About the working group. Miri, this is what I have to give him the reason. It's true, I compromised that there would be a coordinated work group. The entities wanted it to be from the Department of Economics. I haven't talked to the counselor, and I'll remember them again, because yes, he has to be summoned. And, besides, the convocation and the faith led by the Department of Economics, like the entities wanted, and with the convocation of the different directors of services. Therefore, I will insist that you do this meeting, that you have all the will to be able to do it, so that you can work together. Because it is true that the entities of the third sector are not only in the Department of Social Rights, but are, therefore, in other departments. We will look at examples of other autonomous communities, but I have the feeling that one of the reasons is that our country is infinitely richer in the third social sector than other autonomous communities. We have very many entities – very many entities –, especially in the third sector, which you serve. When I was talking to him about 140,000 grant senders, let's see if there's any autonomous communities that have 140,000 grant senders. It's a lot of administrative processing; I recognize that we need to get better and that we need to get better, and we're working there. When we talk about 30_million euros, I don't mean that it's 30_million euros we'll do when. This government has already passed a game, if I don't recall badly, of about 4_million euros, which went to the ICT area to continue working with the e-Social. I mean, he's been working a long time to improve all these managed processes. But you know that one of the problems, too, of the department is not only this large volume, these parties and these subsidies – that in the fund they are small subsidies; I mean, in many cases they are not large amounts of money, but they are small subsidies that have the same processing – but, moreover, we are very atomized, in the sense that we are an administration that works with other administrations. And that, for example, spends a lot of time with the resolution of IAPs. We work with the Department of Health on the subject of valuations, with the different basic areas of assembly, which are also infinite and diverse. Therefore, the difficulty is very great. And it's true, our department's work systems..., I always say the same thing: if in the 19th century there were computers, we'd be in the 19th century. It is a subject that we have on course and that we have not dealt with, and all of us, from the Secretary General to the direction of special servants, who are the ones who turn it around, are conjured to be able to improve these administrative procedures, which, beyond the assumptions, we know will be the ones that will help us to improve all these circumstances. Therefore, thank you very much for your contributions. I, then, just a comment. They do not refer either to the third sector or to the third sector's aid. Therefore, the animation to that in other assumptions, therefore, you also add some game to be able to give them some type of support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.270.0	Let's move on to the new order of the day, the question to the government about the management of residences for the great people, which the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has presented. [[Asking the Government about the management of residences for large people]] [[300-00157/13]] And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.271.0	Thank you, President. Madam Social Rights Counselor, I read to La Vanguardia that you participated, this Day of Sant Jordi, in a solidary initiative of the Friends Association of the Great Gent. He even delivered a rose and a book to Ramón Marquina, who has been volunteering for thirty years in the Eixample district of Barcelona, and who was distinguished by a heroic and effortful task during the pandemic, until, for reasons of salvation, he had to stop a little. Madam Social Rights Counselor, this is all very well, but I sincerely hope that you and the rest of your government do not think that with a rose and a book for Sant Jordi they have already done so and have already completed it with the great people of Catalonia. We think that the government that you represent should begin by asking forgiveness of the great people of Catalonia, to all the people of Catalonia, in reality, for the two thousand dead to our geriatric residencies during the pandemic, a black hole of irresponsibility, guilt and silence, which you think you can cover up by seeking allies in the bleaching of misery and shame. « Together, Esquerra and PSC, what did you have for? We want a commission of inquiry, they cried, a few weeks ago, associations of affected at the gates of the Vila Clavellina residence, before Ca n'Amell de Premià de Mar. With a minimum of decency, everyone wants a parliamentary commission to investigate what really happened to the residents of the great people, of you and your accomplices, not just members of the government. Why does the Socialist Party intend to stop an investigation that the last legislature was defending? I hope the story one day will explain it to us. Let's hope that you have nothing to do with the latest political developments, with the fact that suddenly there seems to have been an opening on the good or bad faith of some health and social contracts made by various administrations at the time of the pandemic that there seemed to be a free bar to contract who was or how it was, be it the Community of Madrid, the Assembly of Madrid, the Generality or the Ministry of Health. Normally they say that llops with llops are not moving, but maybe some llops have been crushed in their teeth and they will start pounding through the channels. For the moment, we are still very concerned and alarmed by the appearance in the newspaper of dubious information about dubious activities of dubious societies, where one and the other time the same names come up, that when it is not David Madí, it is Xavier Vendrell and embolism that makes strong. For the time being, we are leaving this here, because this is not the subject of today's question or this question, for so much that we can't rule out deep connections, so it is a "Catalangate – this is a "Catalangate". Has there been or is there a three-per-cent white coat? Recently we arrived at The Journal of Catalonia – and they were reminded this morning by the MP of the CUP, Laia Estrada – that the Generalitat has let lose 8_million euros, not one or two, but 8_millions, to pay a few beds of buffer residences, where it was supposed to stop people great malalta of the covid, who never got to the practice, or they got there very few. Families don't believe it, and I don't believe it, either. Incompetence? Did Mala handle it? Pure and hard embezzlement? Cruelty? I don't know what else to go through here because the generality's bids, especially the social and health services, which can mark the difference between the life and death of many people, are done in a controlled, transparent way, without secrets and without martingals. Right now, we don't know whether to think that you don't know more about managing, or that you're willing to negotiate with whatever it is, without the most elementary shame or the least ethical. It's true – it's true – that there's no rotten orchards at all and that this can't infer the overall rot of a whole system. But then, why don't you, instead of squeezing because there's less suspicion and more control, look for everything else, or do you do it as much as you can, without any accountability to this Parliament or anyone else? You want to investigate the CNI and you don't want to investigate the big dead people in the residences? Why have they reduced the parliamentary investigation of the deaths of residents to an insignificant working group, where appearances are neither compulsory nor compulsory, where a counselor will have to go to Montserrat to ask for knees, and yet he will not come if he doesn't want to? Is this the message they want to send to all family members of the death warnings left out of God's hand, without being able to take care of their children and without being considered worthy of a hospital bed? Is this your idea of a liberal democracy, an advanced society? What's happened to that old pujolist promise not to let anyone else go? Is it possible to save those who may be able to pay for a private mutual? Madam Counselor, you have to know, just because you're the Ram Counselor, that the residents of the great people were already a drama and an obsolescence programmed before the covid. That the model wasn't right, that it wasn't fit for the needy of a population every time older and with all the right to wrap up dignity, especially if they're in an institution that's responsible. You know that all this was piling up and it's hard to see that she's not seeing, because in order to fix it, she would have quite, from the start, reversed the detailed lifesavers that are long before the cove, that are remunerated to the gene of the evil process. It should also be acknowledged that in the absence of every once more alarming resource, there was the growing amateurism of certain policy makers, to name them in some way, and the need to keep client networks stale every time thicker and insatiable. Up a moment that can't be with everything, that pit stop, and peta for the cost that I never should have, that's for the cost of people's lives. Agencies are the tip of a much more sinister and much bigger iceberg, which is the drama of dependence. Dependence, which administrations make see that they do not see, that it is the great indignity of our time, a time when people are taxed, but, at the time of providing the services that these taxes should finance, do not seek them: not the search if you are autonomous, if you are the wife of an ELA or Alzheimer's disease, that you no longer know how to take the resources or the esma to pull, and, of course, not the search if you are on the waiting list for dependency benefits. Catalonia is at the top of this left not Schindler's list, but on the contrary, the list of absolute evil. At the same time, around 98_million from the central government's budget, almost one euro of every five that the Spanish government has tried to devote to stopping the coup, in Catalonia the people on the waiting list for a dependency benefit have increased by one set_per_cent, while the rest of the communities have dropped a median of 16.7_per_cent. Don't say "Grau Anna," that. I have said the Observer of Dependency, in a news story about the newspaper La Vanguardia, which calculates that, as you go, Catalonia trigaria more than twenty-three years to make clean– or still, a pujolisme– of all dependent people waiting for the performance to which they have right. Not a few are left for the path before they come near. Doesn't it embarrass them? Look, I know that the problem is structural, that it goes from the moon and that it's not a problem strictly or only Catalan. It is a general drama across Europe, across all advanced societies, but I recognize that its political and social model is a particular disaster. Because even if you see that you are doing everything humanly possible, that every euro that you can spend on health and social rights doesn't get stuck in fantasizing embassies or putting in and paying mega-commissions to people on your rope; if you die in homes without forgiveness – forgive – and let yourself be investigated as God's hand; if you don't abuse your parliamentary majority to cover up shames, bid without competition and don't give explanations to anyone ever... but you, along with seeking solutions, are the darkest part of the problem. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.272.0	There's the word Social Rights Advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.273.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I didn't know how many papers to take me away so I could give an answer to Congresswoman Grau, for everyone who asked me. To begin with, we talked about the information that came out, so, in the newspaper The Newspaper, and, moreover, about the question that I had been asked this morning by the MP of the UPC. I'll say it a little bit the same. On July 7, 2020, the Catalonian Parliament was given a monographic plethora to deal with the situation of residences. And in this monographic plenary, which was all the resolutions approved almost unanimously – in fact, there was, if I don't get it wrong, eight abstentions – many of the measures that you are criticizing at these times were approved. And I want to read them, because they always complain that we have to deal with the resolutions adopted in Parliament, so I read them. Point 14.d: "Residence centers must have pre-determined winging spaces with free chambers for this purpose. The 18.e. point: "Keep free seats for the residents on the premises during the proper months to ensure that in the case of a new wave of the covid there is the possibility to practice the necessary aids. The point f: "Having alternate equipment prepared and available to transfer to it, if necessary, persons of affected residences for possible sprouts of the covid. Point 20: "The Parliament urges the Government not to cover vacancies in the residences of persons with disabilities until it is guaranteed that prior to the increase in the position of the covid or a return has adequate spaces of winging. And then, then, also, to raise them economically. Therefore, the Plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia determined which urgent measures were needed to combat that coward, which I wanted to remind you that at those moments the only reception there was the winging, because we still did not have the luck that I had when I arrived at the Government, to have a vaccine that protected at least one of the most vulnerable people in our country. Apologizing, the ones you need, because that was terrible. And it was terrible for many citizens: especially, obviously, for whom they lost their lives, but also for their families. But also remember, because I think that many times we forget it, how terrible it was that time, how frightened we were all, and the misinformation and incapacity of all health authorities, not just those from Catalonia or Spain, but from all over the world, to be able to fight it. And the only tool that was found at that time to be able to fight it was just the wings, and that's why we all locked ourselves home. And what's the problem with residences? So that the residents live in the community, and to the residents and to the places where they live in the community the islands are more difficult. And the measures that were taken, I think, in that House, and which were then translated into a decree of law – decree of which, therefore, it was also voted in this Parliament of Catalonia, and there was not a single vote against – they were precisely working with them that at those times the health authorities knew that they existed, that they were able to free space. The only reminder that in those moments we had criticized possible better or possible ways to fight against the coward is that obviously a lot of people died and that, therefore, we also regret it very much, and now, at these moments, we are criticizing the others, which are precisely these measures of winging. Because today, our residents, therefore, have most of the three doses of vaccine, we know that the covet thanks to God no longer causes so many deaths, and now we must also age for his stay, for his emotional salvation, and we must be able to make this compatible. What I want to think is that during this year and a half, during these two years, the health authorities, who are the ones that have marked the lines of action between their own residential centres, have adapted these measures to the needs and also to the evolution of the own pandemic, and to the evolution of the medicines that were born. You were also talking to me about the other communities, you were talking about the waiting lists, and we all put a lot of data on the table. Allow 'but I also put some, and they are not data exclusively mine, but, in this case, they are also from the Ministry of Social Rights. Catalonia is the autonomous community with a population potentially more dependent on all of Spain, taller than Andalusia, which has more population than we have. According to the ministry, we have, susceptible to population dependence, 1,063,907 people; Andalusia, for example, 1,049,456. Why do I give him these data? So why do I want to put them in comparison with other data? Therefore, we have Andalusia and we have a very similar population. So in Catalonia, at these times, we have 1,045 residences; in Andalusia, 712. Catalonia has 65,447 seats; Andalusia, 44,951. The places available to Catalonia of great public people, with public finance, are 46.110; Andalusia, 29,273. Therefore, in Catalonia 70,5_per_cent of places are public, and in Andalusia 65,1_per_cent. In Madrid, which have a lower population but also similar, have a 43,4_per_cent. Why do I give him these data? Because when we talk about the law of addiction... And it's true, we have a long, long, long list of hope, we've recognized it a lot in this hemicicle a lot of times, and, in fact, a part of the assumptions will be meant to try to reduce these waiting lists. Now it's not too much, for example, we've ended the suspension of the non-professional caregiver's shifts. Therefore, we try to work to reduce these waiting lists. And you're referring, for example, to the article in La Vanguardia, which I also looked at. The average of Spain is 4.33_per_cent for every hundred inhabitants aged 60-55; in Catalonia it is 4.45_per_cent. Therefore, we are above the middle of Spain. Aren't we satisfied? No, we are not satisfied with these data, but it is obvious that we are above the Spanish medium. Who are the reasons for which we have longer waiting lists, and is it also recognizable, when you talk to the ministry? Because our resources, the resources we dedicate to it... the resources are care-giving, for example, places of residence, which are more expensive than other resources. That said, it is true that we have lists of waits, that we have large lists of waits, especially in the matter of great people, but I have also said in other appearances that these lists of waits are sometimes a little deceptive. At these times, we calculate that we have 30,802 people on the waiting list, of whom 6,468 are in a residential resource and are on the waiting list because they want to change residence. Or 7,882 are in a residential appeal with a related economic benefit, and what they want is a public place of residence. Or 6,740 people who have once given up some public square, because at that time they have pointed out themselves, in themselves, but when they cry out they do not have it, at that time, they need it. Therefore, the waiting list we have in Catalonia is 9,712 people. Long list, long list, and, in fact, we're also trying to do the best we can to deal with it. In the assumptions of this year we have allocated or will allocate some EUR 55 million to be able to reduce these waiting lists, but they are not only waiting lists for large people, but also waiting lists for other resources: waiting lists for people with disabilities, waiting lists for resources for occupational services, waiting lists for resources for people who suffer from some type of mental health, and also, as we have said on other occasions, in helping the sector through the revision of tariffs, rates we believe that, in addition to others, they should be able to improve the sound of the workers who, obviously, are in a critical situation, if we compare with other sectors. So we're working with the resources we have and we're doing our best to be able to, so we're getting to this will, which I'm sure you have and what you're manifesting, and that we from the department also have, which is the reduction of these waiting lists so that everyone can have the appeal they want – that not everyone wants the same type of appeal – and above all to work for it, too, with questions of personal autonomy. And in the second part of the reply, so, we'd just make the explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.274.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.275.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, this, which is certainly the debate of our time, would require a lot more time than the parliamentary customs office gives us. But, trying to go a little to the highlights of his reply, "it is not equivalent to letting people die without going to the hospital," it is not equivalent to leaving empty centers; "apologizing is not exactly the same as asking for forgiveness, there is a moral abyss. That they're scared, I think – that they're scared, I think – but above all they're scared to investigate what happened. If it's done so well, what about a commission of inquiry that gets to the bottom of the issue? I agree a lot with one thing you said, that you're right, that it's true that Catalonia has a potentially more dependent population, even for reasons of age. Look, for example, the other day I went with Mr. Carrizosa to Tortosa, and the people who mobilized to make the new hospital in Tortosa insist that it is taken into account... Clearly, obviously, everyone wants a hospital at the door of their home, but they insist that the population of their territory is like a half a year over the general aging of Catalonia, and this is an objective and objective criterion that should play in their favor. Of course, the problem here is that it's a lot about Catalonia-Spain's tax policy, but it's not very much about the metropolis' tax policy, let's just say, about the generality at the edge of the territory, that sometimes it works like a pop with the very small pots that we pass..., far more far from the Llobregat. You mentioned the case of Andalusia. For example, Andalusia is a community that doesn't all solve it by internalizing people. Give more help to families to get organized. For example, I'm very in touch with the wife of an Ela's ill who is very worn out, after twenty years of caring for him; who can't do any more, who has to operate... She doesn't want to get her husband into a hospital because she says he would die; she asks you to help him to keep him at home. And this is sometimes a more social and humane solution. Now, of course, maybe it's not so useful because they do the usual business. Because, let's say it – let's say it – that, by a lot of good will that some people individually in this government and in the system..., I have no problem giving it to you, Mrs. Cervera, a personal vote of confidence, but, look, cover holes and it's not worth noting the miseries that are not the equivalent of fixing it – it's not the equivalent of fixing it. And while here it's still covering holes and closing the eyes and not seeing that we have the system could for a poor allocation of resources, an assignment not so transparent, and that more money is going on, let's just say, where we shouldn't go that we should go... while we do this, we won't get out. One of the most alarming things that happens to us that, with everything against it, but also with a good disposition of anime, we struggle day after day to make opposition and draw 'in the clear water is that every day it tricks us more people to denounce bad practices to the Catalan sanitation and to the social services. Every day he calls us more people of Catalonia "tangada, "tangada per voustès. To me, to the Anna Grau de Ciutadans, I call on his people, who have a record of their party, or who, if they don't, give obedience to what they do have, to ask me to investigate this or report it to others. And believe me – believe me – that lately we don't give enough to manage the petitions that come to us, the xivatasos that come to us, in a word. I imagine that not only to us, but also to other groups, to whom I make a call because among all of us we say 'good', because we make a desperate effort and together to make opposition and change these evil practices that smile all the life of a worthy social model. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.276.0	There's the word Social Rights Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.277.0	Thank you, President. Well, now you were talking about the differences between the autonomous communities, and I can assure you that I'd be in favour of looking at other models to look at other options that also... I mean, that also works, huh? And I'm a supporter of the deinstitutionalization of the system. I..., maybe because I'm coming to pay and I know how hard it would be for my parents to go to a residence, that they wouldn't want to go there. And that's a lot of our country. Most of the people in our country want to live in their homes – most of them, huh? – until the last hour, until they can. And what we're always saying, and it's the policies that we want to apply, and the European foundations are also headed in this line..., is because everyone can live where they want and how they want. And there are people who don't, who, under various circumstances, prefer, when they feel alone, to go to an equipment, to a residential center, and most of the people, so, no. And that's why these hope lists are so unrelated. There are people who point to it, but then, at the time of truth, they say: "No, no, because I'm still fine and I prefer to be home. Therefore, European foundations must serve us for this. And I covet it..., if a good thing has touched the cove – it has had quite a few, but this is a good thing –..., it is when we always day what has put us before the miracle, which is a phrase that I do not like, but that is true. And the cove makes all the residential centers they're doing from now on not build in the same way, because people will be demanding and will want them in another way: smaller residential spaces, smaller units of living, shared spaces at the center of cities, open to the population, with the possibility of greater interaction with their family members as well. Therefore, the residential centers and the residences that we will project from the department will already go in this line. And European foundations must also serve us to finance these residential models or the remodeling of these residences also in this line. But another of the parties that is really important, and I'm hoping that I can go well, is a 60-million-euro game that should serve us precisely for this personal autonomy. A personal autonomy that must be given to us by the new technologies – digitalization, home automation, teleassistance and telemedicine – which must allow us to fix people to their homes until now. So we're also working on this line. And it's obvious that after we have to have residential services, and it's obvious that we have to be able to reduce these waiting lists. And, moreover, it is clear that we must be able to do this in an equitable way throughout the territory, because the needs are also different – from the people who live in the great cities of the people who live in more rural areas, and therefore, more displaced. But it's also obvious that we have a financing problem. I know this isn't a date that you like, but it's true that it is. We made the year 2006 a law of addiction that went very well. Some political parties, like my previous political party, voted against it because it is poorly funded and poorly dimensioned, and this is one of the great realities. It is always said that the law of dependency should be financed at fifty per cent between the Autonomous Communities and the State, and it is not so. In these moments, if the assumption dedicated to dependence is 1,400_million euros, from the State comes 280_million euros. And that's it. And I like to remember an article, which is Article 32, because I see that, more than that, we always say the subject badly. Article 32 states that ‘the contribution of the Autonomous Communities must be, for each year, at least equal to that of the Administration of the Government of the State, as a consequence of which these previous parties provide. In other words, according to the law of dependence, if the State provides 200 million, the Generality should provide only 200 million, and we provide 1,400 in total. So we have a problem. And, then, of course, we have a problem with these laws that are fan of the State, overcoming competitions that are from the autonomous communities, that tell you what you have to do and then don't give you the money to finance them. And the people we are independent, or, it's the same, those who believe in the autonomous communities..., is because the territories are simply different – neither better nor worse – with different territorial realities. I have set the example of Andalusia not for nothing, but because they have a population similar to ours, but even all social realities are also different in Andalusia, as they are in Castella - la Manxa, Madrid or Galicia. And that's the real problem. Our needs are different from those of other autonomous communities. And that's why we don't want all the resources, but we can legislate with the guarantee that no unconstitutional laws will be declared approved for this Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.278.0	Let's move on to the agenda, the question to the Government on the rural agenda, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Question to the Government on the rural agenda]] [[300-00158/13]] She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.279.0	Thank you, President. We were able to enjoy today – we also remembered this morning, at the monitoring session – the presentation of the Alcarrás film; a film that excited everyone we could see for his humanity, for which he also moved from rural culture, as he portrays this model of family exploitation with the portraits and threats that he is living, and that made us feel that we do not want him to disappear, and above all we do not want him to disappear to defend the dignity of the people who live and work in the rural world. Enguany, plus, we also celebrate thirty years of Leader, this reference instrument in rural development policies in the country. We talked about this in the previous motion that we made in September, a policy that has made the local action groups fail in our country, those groups with public and private participation at the territorial level, and that through the accumulated experience they have been carrying out projects that have contributed without doubt to the rural development of our territories, of our communities. The Odisseu programme, of return of young formats to the rural world; the Cowocat, to boost coworking spaces; Gustum, for proximity products; Focus, for renewable energies and forest management, etc. And Catalonia has also, during all these years of development of European rural development policies, through Feeder funds, been a region of reference in the implementation of these policies. Some policies which, as I recall, were born around the common agricultural policy, and which, therefore, have always touched the agricultural and agri-food sector like a paller, but which, obviously, have evolved into visions every time more transversal, more holistic, taking much into account that in which we have to focus our efforts on people who want to develop their professional and life project in rural areas. In addition, another ephemeral: this May 4th will present the Atles du monde rural, a new edition of which was the first atles de la nouvelle ruralitat published in 2009 for the Fundació del Món Rural, which had and still has the objective to give to know the reality of the Catalan rural world, to be a tool to break down according to five topics, according to the harmful ones. And if at that time it already showed that, every time more, this rural world every time is more urban, it still retains particularities that the different fan and makes policies also adapt, and wants to put in value and evidence this country's leading paper as a food, resource, energy, water, and, above all, rich and opportunities to benefit and salvation for our country. Without any doubt, we believe that this Atles du monde rural will also give a very good X-ray of how these dynamics and these social and economic trends have evolved in the Catalan rural world in our different communities, and will give us information and essential indicators for all these policies that we need to, as we say, ensure that the lives of people living and working in the rural world continue with dignity. From the Republican Left we are very clear that we want to drive transformations in all spheres. And here, in the rural world, we want a living rural environment. And that means it has to be sustainable, it has to be dynamic, it has to be open, resilient. And this implies that we need policies to falsify the production of food in our country, to falsify this sustainable management of natural resources preserving biodiversity and the richness that it supposes us; to preserve all this landscape with a management of forests for the prevention of forest fires – we remember that more than sixty per cent of our territory is forest–; to deal with these imbalances that we suffer in our ecosystems, as well as with pests such as those overpopulations of kinegenic fauna; to promote also, in parallel, all these local economies, this consumption of proximity, this economy based in the territory, and, above all, guaranteeing equal opportunities and welfare vis-à-vis those who live in the whole country, each and every one of these countries, and this government, if it helps, if it helps. But above all – above all – we are very clear, from the Republican Left, that what we want is what we say, eh? The dignity of the people who live there. Therefore, keep these pages and pages, this generational replete in this agricultural sector, which is palable in this development of the rural world. We want this social cohesion, this welfare in people, in the day-to-day lives of people in the rural world, with the best of these basic services, necessary for a full and professional development and ensuring equal opportunities. We need to face up to the democratic challenge, promoting the relationship of the people, accompanying an overcrowded population in the rural world, because there is also a life worthy of the great people in the rural world, embracing the new people, giving new opportunities for life and for business and economic models, and, at the same time, giving life to those activities that we have, traditional, which are the pala de palar de la sustabilidad. Therefore, we need, in this holistic vision, policies that also have this cross-cutting vision, this rural perspective embedded in each of the different areas of government, in the different departments, that give us out and answer to all this diversity of realities that impose the orography of our country and the different ecosystems. And this is true both in infrastructure and in network connectivity as in energy models, in service models, in the own production of food or management of the environment, in the governance of our municipalities and in urban planning or in policies of housing and access of young people to housing in the rural world, in work and entrepreneurship or vocational training – which we also need every time better adapted, which contributes to the generational replenishment and reindustrialization of our country, family reconciliation, local economies, etc. This is all about investing in people's and territory's services. In this sense, we want to give the compliment to the work that the department has done with this rural agenda, a task also for Arca, the Catalan Association of Municipis, the Association of Micropopulations and CADS. As I said before, on September 2021 we had already made an inquiry and a motion in which we asked that we guarantee the urgent deployment of this rural agenda and that in its implementation framework we plan in all those actions aimed at giving this positive response to the needs of the rural world, and that we also have, under the assumption, all those actions that came out of this rural agenda exercise. And, obviously, we also asked that in this Parliament, didn't we? We were part of it and we could give all our support to this country strategy. Therefore, we ask you, counsel, in which point we are in all this work. In this sense, it is also asking that, in which we are left to pull forward this rural agenda, it is falqui above all governance. And, in this sense, demand and demand the necessary alignment of all departments and assumption on the part of all the government action of whom are these policies that mark our rural agenda. Train these dynamics of SILO, and that, in fact, the strategy of sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda also asks us. It also calls for the priorities of the rural agenda to be taken into account in all European funds, in all of Europe's aid, in the different types of funds. It is also translated, this rural agenda, into a plan of government action that reduces all the actions envisaged for each year and in the assumptions and assumptions parties and resources corresponding to each department. And that is why we also believe that it is a compromise to continue with this task of follow-up, awareness-raising and dialogue between the appropriate government through this inter-departmental committee of rural governance to ensure this ruralisation of public policies, as well as to assess the impact and results of the different actions of the rural agenda and, if necessary, also the necessary adaptation and evolution of the own rural agenda through this implementation with the annual action plans and the corresponding assumptions. We are clear that the rural agenda must be a step towards a structural change at country level, which is also a pioneer and referent at European level. And we want it to continue and to generate that confidence that all the mechanisms will be articulated so that the rural agenda, so involved in the whole process that has taken place so far, will guide the decisions of the different departments of the Government, but also, if necessary, of this house, of the legislative activity of the Parliament, or even of the local administrations involved. We want you to serve for this coherence and harmonization of all policies with the ability to adapt to local specificities. And, finally, we want to accompany all this work, like a parliamentary group and through this institution, because the rural agenda gives all the attention to the social, cultural, environmental and economic importance that you have and must have the future of all the rural Catalan territory, the activity that you have developed and the people that you see there. Because, as you said this morning, above all we want people to live with dignity and where they are. "Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.280.0	To answer, has the word Ms. Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.281.0	Thank you very much, President. Too late to all and so to all. Mrs Serret, thank you for this question. In fact, no one better known to you as the year 2017 the Government agreed, in this case, to create the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation. With this space, with this creation, there are basically four things that I think have been completed perfectly. The first was to promote a space of debate and reflection on the case that deals with us – depopulation, which deals with us and concerns us – with the participation, obviously, of everyone. Secondly, therefore, it also coordinates the preparation of a report with the contributions of all the departments, which theoretically was to assess the current situation of the depopulation of some rural areas and is proposed without measures, obviously, concrete, to help fix the population. Thirdly, to promote a priority, and also specific, line of work on equal policies in rural areas. And, ultimately, to draw up and present a concrete proposal for improvement and inter-administrative coordination and cooperation between all levels of public administration operating in rural areas of our country, which, as you know, are many. And ever since that time, ever since 2017, that's what we've been doing. In fact, first of the Department of Agriculture, and now we are already finishing work, say, from the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. And the result..., of the elaboration of a shared diagnosis, of the functions he was commenting on, and a report proposing concrete measures, which is the second objective he was commenting on. I mean, the result is the rural agenda that we're just working on and that the government is going to approve these very weeks, huh? At the end of May. And the things that we feel more proud of... so, look, we've done with everyone. This is not the government's rural agenda, nor is it the rural agenda of this council. It has to be our country's rural agenda. And that's why I'm already grabbing his hand, if not as a parliamentary group, but I understand that the rest of the groups too – we haven't talked to all of them many times – to work from Parliament and to make us all and all of this country that has to help us fight our rural world very hard. We've done it among all of us, huh? And, in addition, we have done so with two committees, which I have not spoken about at any time, which have worked very intensively and very rigorously: the drafting committee and a motor committee. The first one, the editor, therefore, did not speak to you. We did it with the Association of Micropopulations, next to the Catalan Association of Municipalities. Also with Arca, the entire regional rural development network of Catalonia, who know the territory and its agents perfectly. And we did it under the umbrella of the CADS, as it can't be otherwise at these times of climate emergence. And, for another band, this motor commission, formed in this case by thirty-one organizations and associations of the whole cross-cutting – because if something has to be transversalized, obviously – which was meant to guarantee a rich participation, a plural participation, very territorialized – that this is very important, that everyone can say his – and, above all, involved, and that he has worked to promote and, indeed, has aged from the first day because this final document of the agenda collected, precisely, all the challenges of the rural world contribute to it, through all this diversity and also from the expert – important–, therefore, a global vision, but – there, eh? – transversal, which is very important, old for representativeness, as I said, also territorial. There has been a very rich participatory process which I believe we should not feel, like the country, very proud of. And this is also worthy of all the parliamentary groups that you've bet on, that you've also worked on the motion that Congresswoman Serret commented on. I mean, from here, too, I'd only miss to thank him, wouldn't I? There have been different thematic workshops, which have tried to benefit, to promote democracy, to connect territories, to ecological transition, to climate change, to biodiversity... to make a difference, because in the end the rural world... here we are certainly many, living in the rural world, and sometimes we seem to be talking about other things. No, we have some very concrete needs, but in the end we talk, basically, about the same, huh? Of the forest system – very important –, of innovation, of economic dynamism, etcetera. That's what the workshops were about, huh? They've been distributed forever, which, too, I repeat, seems very important to us. And it means that in the participation process fifty-u_per_cent of the participants were women, of a total of 1,247 people, and that the largest number of contributions were made by people who are in a age range between thirty-six and fifty-five years. It's a time I don't know if they want to make any conclusions, but in any case, it's a good medium, huh? Between thirty-six and fifty-five years. From all this participatory process there are, concretely, 897 actions, of which at first priority is given to 390. That's in the participation process, huh? And finally, after the process of drawing up the actions that the drafting committee has worked on, and that has obviously passed through the inter-departmental committee – that means all the departments – so it has passed to 920 actions, a result of which there were many that were, obviously, unfolding, and, therefore, leaked a little. Of these, 301 are priorities – of the 390 remaining 301 priorities, I repeat, because some were doubled – and 59 identify themselves as strategic actions. So now we're, like, deputies, deputies, right at this point. We've got the job done and a proposal. A proposal that we want Parliament to know and that the government and its departments have it as a white book, as a white book that is not full of blanks, but on the contrary, that is full of dues, actions, timing and assumptions. This is precisely the objective: that it must obviously be a book of reference for the development of part of the country, that even though it is inhabited, it must be said, for a few people, that this must be the same for us, because, in short, as Mrs Serret said, it is people who have decided to develop..., we are people who have decided to develop our life plan there and who obviously deserve the same equal opportunities as all of us. In short, this is the point at which we are at these moments, huh? For us the agenda is extremely important. That's a lot of what it stands for, because it's a historical demand of the territory, because we're... I think our fellow citizens living in the country's most rural areas are tired of making demands they've always been up to, huh? And that we have also defended, surely, in this Parliament, but that they have not come to a conclusion. And now it's time, therefore, to put them in a paper, that the government makes it its own, that the parliament makes it its own, and that we can, under different assumptions, develop all these actions. In short – and I ended up – the goal of everyone should be that a country has the best conditions for everyone, for its people, huh? Obviously, visqui is visqui. The same opportunities. And that people have decided to develop their life plan where they have decided, have the same opportunities and can live there in a dignified way. That's the challenge, and that's what this rural agenda is proposing. Let's leave it, very quickly, a little bit of the reptes as defined. They see that we don't find anything at all, but they've been falsified just in seven very concrete points, huh? One who talks about people, about welfare and about demography, in short; a first package that wants to guarantee social rights, worthy services and ensure a living rural world – here you can imagine, therefore, who are the actions that go away, huh? A_second challenge, which is the ecological transition, for a circular economy that faces climate change and promotes biodiversity. The circular economy – that of the linear economy..., let's leave it in the band – in our rural world, is very important, and here we also play. A third, which is the connected territory. No connection is much more complicated, not to say impossible. A Catalonia balanced at the level of communication, obviously. A fourth, which is a brave, robust agri-food system, and advance this food sovereignty. And that goes through a lot of actions that they obviously already know. An important forestry system too – said MP Serret, too. We have a country that's more than 60 percent forest, and obviously it's an incredible potential. This means that the forest system must be important. We need to drive sustainable forest management and profit. And, finally, innovation, economic and social dynamism, huh? : guarantee essential economic services, we are busy, generate opportunities. And innovation, too, in the economy of our people and micro-people; in our rural economy, in short. And lastly, governance: decentralizing and democratizing participation and decision making. That, as you know, that's a lot to do with requests, huh? , of this famous statue that also takes place from the rural world. In short – and I finish – this is not the government's agenda, this is not the agenda of this department; this is the agenda of our country, of our rural world, which we want to do with shared governance, and we count on all of you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.282.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the criteria for establishing rights restrictions in a pandemic context]] [[300-00161/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about the criteria for establishing rights restrictions in a pandemic context, which has presented the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Deputy Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.283.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Well, as you know, already in the previous inquiry and in the motion we're wearing this week we're talking a little bit about the situation of the healthiest area and the public health for what it does to the pandemic. And in this inquiry, which for us in a certain way is a continuation, we also wanted to address this issue from a perspective of rights and freedoms. We have to address this inquiry to a councillor. We thought there were other formats to be able to generate this debate – then I'll explain a little – and it wasn't possible to generate them, and therefore we did it in this format of inquiry and motion. And then, in the afternoon, we'll have a few proposals, because we think it's a debate and a melo to open up and work on, and that it's necessary for us to work as a society and also as a parliament, right? In any case, we think that three of the key fish in this debate are justicia, but also Salut, also Interior, and, ultimately, it is the government's joint and the policies that, since the beginning of 2020 the pandemic has begun, it has pushed this government forward, and the effects that they have had on the fundamental rights, on the collective rights, right? Several reports already pointed to the possible effects of all the measures taken by the world in relation to the situation of the covid in the fundamental rights. Some of them are the one who did the Greuges Union about the state of alarm, "Hello and rights in the crisis of the coward; also about violations of fundamental rights during the state of alarm for an excessive use of force, on behalf of Amnesty International; also from the High Commission for Human Rights of the United Nations, talking about the protection of human rights during and after the coward; and also from the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations. And, in short, there is a series of reports, both international and national, that speak of this impact on the fundamental rights. In fact, if we've decided to ask this question to Justice, it's because, precisely when we were preparing it, when we were working on it, we saw that from the Department of Justice, right? It was one of the areas of action that included this guarantee of rights and freedoms, and it was about this group of experts that it was necessary to draw up a report on the guarantee of fundamental rights, public freedoms in a situation of emergence or social exceptionality, and it ended up saying that the creation of this group was an unprecedented initiative in and out of the Spanish State and that it was necessary to facilitate public management of social crises based on respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens – then I will go further. This group we met because of the press that dissolved at the beginning of 2021, and we don't know that it's been set up again. In any case, a little context. And it is that we know, and it is obvious, that it is not easy on the part of the government– nor on the part of this government– to manage a pandemic, a pandemic that could hardly be predicted, and that, therefore, it has been a complex issue. We, in order to manage for the people, have a clear compass, which is that the guarantee of material rights, the guarantee of civil rights and the guarantee of political rights must be placed at the centre. And we think this must be the compass to guide the actions of any government. It may be present, but – and here I escape a little bit of the concrete question of the inquiry, but it seemed important to contextualize it – that we have the Catalan health system as we do. Years and years of retailing, years and years of privatization are raining on women in a public and private model that has made it easier for them to do business through the pandemic – I think the Laia has not talked about this, and will talk about it much better than I do – and in an absolutely unequal and unequal society context. We think that the bases for getting out of a pandemic, for being able to tackle a pandemic, from the guarantee of rights, also material, are a robust health system, a bet for clear public intervention and, obviously, a system of ownership, provided and managed one hundred_per_cent public, and that it is robust. Elements, for us, as a public pharmacist or as a determined intervention are key in this sense, right? In short, it is to guarantee the conditions for the support of a dignified life. And, ultimately, it is a question of guaranteeing social and material rights in the field of public transport, the moratorium on loggers and mortgages, the guarantee of work places, the control of public prices and services, and health elements, isn't it? Without guaranteeing these two pillars, it seems to us that it is impossible to address the pandemic without leaving anyone behind. And, therefore, it seems to us that, if it does not come from here, the measures must necessarily revolve around another element that we do not share, that is to put the burden on the responsibility of the people, to put the burden on the individual actions, and not on the large body of the institutions and on the responsibility of the governments. Let us think, therefore, that it has tended, that it tends to restrict rights more than not to provide them, and that, therefore, it enters into a dichotomy of restriction versus provision, and that, therefore, as less provision of rights, more restriction of these. Given this context, and coming more into the question of rights and freedoms, we think it is fundamental – and also one day as today, in which for the first time after a long time we can be in this Ple, for example, without masks – not to go back to normal oblivion of everything that has happened, and therefore not to leave a void without being able to review all those measures that have been taken. And, therefore, it is possible to see what has been done well, what has been done badly, and, in this concrete case, what impact they have had on the rights of the community, what impact they have had on the rights of the people, and which of the measures could have real health justifications and what they did not. Doing it for us is necessary, it is urgent. And, if we don't, we see that there's an obvious risk that we'll be in the same rock, because now the pandemic is over, but we don't know what the future will be, and, therefore, if we can go back to similar scenes. We believe that the Catalan government, in this sense, has gone from points to points in these assessments. We do not believe that a general assessment of these measures has been made in Parliament either, and it seems to us that this is the case. For us one of the central questions, one of the main questions to be addressed in this assessment, is a lack of transparency, a lack of objectivity at the time of taking certain measures. We believe that it has been too often a hesitant attitude that has implied arbitrariness, an improvisation in the making of decisions, or at least that we have understood, or at least that much of society has understood. And we believe that this perception has been fed by this lack of clarity and this lack of transparency. We also want to make an acclamation. We are starting from a left-wing approach, from a socialist approach to the guarantee of collective rights, and this means that our position is absolutely contrary to the whole of individual or individualist freedom. And, therefore, we start from a position that is absolutely contrary to those extreme right positions, those negationist positions, or those pseudoscientific positions. However, in no case can we agree with the violation of individual and collective rights without objective criteria, without clear health criteria, without the result that they are endorsed and, above all, without transparency in the debate on the implementation of measures, the taking of decisions or the lack of willingness to assess and self-criticise later. As I said earlier, with this constant burden, with this constant call for measures primarily to individual responsibility, we think that these inequalities are not only being fed, but that, moreover, those policies of the'save' can be reinforced, and, therefore, are ending up giving to all these extreme right-wing discourses, all these negationist discourses, and entering into dynamic ones that are absolutely contrived to guarantee these collectible rights. In this sense, and entering into more concrete questions – because I see that my time is passing – as I said before, we believe that the Government has made it very difficult for us to make a critical assessment of the measures that have taken place from the perspective of rights and freedoms. We have found ourselves in situations such as, for example, that we have called for the acts of the Process and or have not been facilitated or partially facilitated. We also believe that, in our view, there are specific measures which, despite the fact that they may be endorsed by judicial authorities, appear to have more to do with public control or social control than with the need for a weighting between rights and freedoms in order to limit interactions. We think that it was also a mistake not to accept the appearances that we asked, together, of the Interior and Greetings in order to be able to address these questions to the Commission of the Interior and that the forces of the Government voted against them. And we believe that it is essential and necessary for the current government to continue and resume the work of the expert committee to assess the violation of rights during the pandemic. It was a committee of experts that actually dissolved at the beginning of the past year, as I mentioned earlier, and that could not complete its work. We have been able to talk to some of the people who set up this committee and have transferred the importance of the task they were doing, the willingness to follow it and its surprise at the time it dissolved. For us, it is a central issue that can be recovered from these tasks and that can generate, in the parliamentary debate, a critical assessment of the effects of the rights and freedoms of the measures that were taken during the pandemic. And we believe that it is essential to be able to make this assessment, as it was before, in order not to meet the same stones again and to be able to approach in a future [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – the debates that are needed in view of the possibility of producing new situations. Thank you. And now we're following... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.284.0	Thank you, Congressman. So then there's the word Justicia's counselor, Mrs. Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.285.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Member, for this inquiry. You really have made reference to a situation that we have experienced, a unique experience, unthinkable, if you have explained it to us, around a worldwide pandemic of unknown effects, and that we discovered—citizenship, governments—no surprise, no day-to-day discovery, how it affected people's lives, how it actually conditioned our freedoms. We've been confined home for many weeks with an alarm decree. We thought that we would never see it, and in fact, we saw it and we lived it, and with the responsibility of the governments of the whole front. And, in our case, to do it in the exercise of our skills, but also with the hands tied to the skeleton, because you know as well as we do that resources are who they are, that you chose a decision, therefore, very centralist and very centralized of the management of this pandemic. We believe that, at such a difficult time, the fact that we did not respect the competences of the autonomous communities that we had experience in health issues, in matters of the Interior, in matters of Justice, and to want to reintegrate it has paved the way for success and violated the principle of subsidiarity, and more so when we saw them coming out on the wheels of the military-dressed people. And to me, frankly, as a citizen, I was surprised; as in politics, a point of indignation, because what we needed were clear answers, collegiate answers, with people who knew what they were doing to their people. And in this case, in the matter of salvation, in the matter of security, in the matter of justice – that which passed, for example, inside prisons – we knew. I didn't know any better than we did. Therefore, the fact of managing, as I said, with a hand connected to the scale at the time of fully developing the skills and, in turn, not being able to develop it with the economic resources that we needed to help, for example, a fabric that suffered a lot... You must remember how it impacted many collections that were not essential and that had to be closed, and many of them did not recover. The type of product we have in Catalonia differs a lot from what may be in other bands in the State. We have small, micro and medium-sized businesses that needed support and help, and it did the most from the government. We had families who lost their jobs; we did not manage the conditions either of ERTOs or of responding to workers. Or as we could do because the rights of the people, which were always to be preserved... that's what it was. From this point of view, I would also say, to be fair, that what was right to salvation, right to life, was compatible with the fundamental rights and with a situation that, I repeat, was completely unknown at that time, we did not know what we found. There were people who rented what they bought at the supermarket with leixiu and let it dry the sun, out of the blue. Then they saw how they were evolving things and what they didn't want to do or what they didn't want to do. But it is true that there was a complete astonishment at the time of doing..., or unconsciousness, rather, at the time of doing and giving answer and preserving and guaranteeing salvation. Therefore, my thanks to the government of President Torra, because they did everything they could at that time, and I think that with remarkable success, because they took decisions preserving the salvation of the citizenry. And a thank you, of course, not only to health-care people, who went to war for our salvation and who went to war, and, in fact, to suffer a hard work as never before, but also to all those people of the essential services who were at the edge of the cano giving essential services because the life of the rest of the city was a much easier point: people who worked in supermarkets, shopping nearby, etc. And he made us discover..., and one of the things – I agree with you – that it would be worth evaluating is what we have after that experience. And if anything I think we could learn from that experience is how important the proximity product has been, how we put in value the services we had at home, how we put in value that we could hold to the brim, so... that we could have the fruits, the vegetables, that they were of the kilometre..., and of the proximity. Therefore, all these are policies that must be used to increase the commitment of public administrations to this proximity trade in the field of our competitions. And I assure you, we've been working on this ever since Justice. That's why I'm telling you that we agree that we need to learn from those experiences. You have discussed the committee of experts to guarantee the rights of the staff. And it's true, it was a committee of experts that, for what we've seen, it was created at the time of the pandemic to know how the measures that came to be impacted on the fundamental rights. I think it was a very good initiative. It's gonna be June 9, 2020. It is true that there was no formal constitution. He also announced the government's own spokesman for the 18th generation in a press wheel. That working group did not have a formal umbrella; therefore, it was not formally constituted. And I assure you that, on the part of Justice, it has not been called off or disbanded from any working group; in the same way that it was not formally constituted, it has not been..., you have said "dissolved, I think it has served this word. It's not the case; I mean, it's not the case of the advice I represent. In any case, it was formed by renowned experts who made a series of documents, documents that many of them have... well, in fact, the groups that asked us to make them available to us. You haven't asked us. If they want them, we will deliver them, because they can see the contents of those reflections that those experts made. Many of them... it means it's not a locked document or a closed document. It's an open document, including still seeing notes to develop, pending review. Therefore, it is not a consensus document of all people who are not members, but it is a valuable document, and in any case it is already decided what it is intended to do. I mean, on behalf of the Department of Justice, at your disposal, because we don't have a representative from the department in this group of experts. So we'll be loving. Because, as you say, we do not have to learn from all that science, that they did not only bring these people, but all those experiences that, as a result of the coven, we had occasion to develop. For example... and I go to what is my land of imprisonment or the realm of my competence, which is how it impacted, for a band, on the day-to-day of the people taken. Remember that you spent twenty-three hours in cell confinement. This was done according to strict health criteria. But it is true that, after..., to thank all the compromise of the people who work there, from Health, from the prison centers, to the officials who work there, who sought the formula of making candy groups so that they could get out to the duck, so that they could specifically train only certain groups, as if they were candy groups, so that, in this way, they would try to make it much easier. And one of the things that allowed us to experience, and that stayed, is the fact that we can make videoconferencing with families. Therefore, it has opened up a whole world for us to be able to communicate with the families of imprisoned people who are far from our country or who cannot be displaced, even though they are very eager. Therefore, in its time it increased from eight to twenty videoconferencings. That's what's left. And, in addition, it gives us the opportunity to improve it in the concept of putting more on the market, through telecommunications, statements in the courts, so that we avoid conduct and avoid that there can be much more interaction between the lawyer and the client, because this can be done by video conferencing, according to the criteria of security and data preservation. Therefore, he has also left us some experience that we have already sought to learn. And, I repeat, I agree with you that, from all the documentation gathered, from all the vivid experiences, we need not be able to do a learning..., an analysis, rather, first of all, to deduce a learning that allows us to, if – let us not say so – some exceptional situation as we have experienced is repeated, we already have a lot of work done and a lot of way to go at the time of being able to implement the better for the citizenry. Because we agree that, in any case..., or I can disagree with something that I don't know if I have misunderstood: for me there is no defence of the fundamental rights of the right and of the left; for me there is defence of the fundamental rights or there is no defence of the fundamental rights. There are totalitarian groups that do not defend the fundamental rights. So I don't give them or just excuse them for being able to justify it. And the compromise of the defense of the fundamental rights, of the human rights, is one of the policies of this government. Therefore, on the basis of this and posing this as a frontispiece, I find the dissertation that makes me feel certain about learning from the vivid experiences of, if ever again passing through, being able to improve them in the day-to-day life of the citizenry. In any case, let's hope that we have a remission of the pandemic and that the vagina data will return, because we don't really know..., and we can't just give it away. In any case, prudence and to see what ends up passing, we raise these measures that we are living, so, already in freedom, as demonstrated by this Ple, which I have certainly met many Members after..., because they have been able to remove the mask. It's here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.286.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.287.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... going a little further into practice, right? , and to these more concrete questions, as you said, we also saw with great concern the bellicose approach, the focus in these early stages of the pandemic. And it's one of the issues that concerns us and we think we need to have a joint reflection, despite the fact that we were at the top of the Spanish state and we are in the Catalan Parliament. We think that this is what we need to talk about, and that we need to talk about how we should not focus on a pandemic, with a militarized communication, a militaristic communication, with a language of war, and, ultimately, with what we were in an attempt at absolute social discipline or submissiveness taking advantage of a pandemic situation. There are other questions that we think need to be addressed and that it is important that we generate a parliamentary debate. One of them is... we're talking about the covid passport. Let's talk, let's talk about the job you've had. Let's talk about the social segregation effects that could and could have generated, the digital brettxa that it generated. Let's talk about what context you've felt put in the way of this measure. If in a context of a population that is among the most vaccinated in Europe and the world..., if between a eighty-one and a noranta_per_cent vaccination is a measure that has to be posed and what elements it supposes. Discuss it. And we debate it from a point of view, too, of rights and freedoms. We also talk and evaluate very restrictive measures, such as curfew, a measure that limits freedom of mobility and a measure that, in our opinion, has been used more in some moments for a question of control of the population or public order than as a measure justified healthily, right? We've already come up with a question, and we've raised it, about the curfew and the costs that I had incurred during these Nadal parties. And we were talking about that half a million euros had been allocated to avoid mobility in hours... Also what effects this had on the population at a time when, perhaps, the external findings were much less risky than the internal findings, from a health point of view. Anyway, let's talk to each other, put it in the table. And it seems to us that it's a matter of substance that needs to be assessed, like Parliament, right? Another element that he has also mentioned is all that makes reference to what these restrictions have entailed in the internment centres, in the prison centres, and, therefore, the great difficulties that have suffered taken and taken, the winging in the winging and the consequences that this has also had on them and on them. And, therefore, questions such as lack of resources, such as overcrowding in prisons, etc., how they can address other points of view. Another element, which is not, unfortunately, the competence of this Parliament – because most of this Parliament is against it – but which has also had very damaging effects..., is what it does to people in an irregular administrative situation, isn't it? , and the effects that the pandemic has already had on its rights and freedoms that are absolutely restricted under conditions of normality, between comets, and concretely also ICES. We have seen alarming reports, such as the Migra Studium 2020, "Menys Drets, more patiently, in which they did not apply prevention measures, in which they saw massive infections. We have no jurisdiction over this issue, but it also seems to us to be a phonetic element, because they were citizens, Catalans and Catalans, and for which we had to give an answer. Or there are elements also linked, therefore, to the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 148/2021, which fell, for example, all sanctions imposed in confinement between March 14 and June 21, 2020. And, therefore, what implications it had. And, unfortunately, not just these sanctions. We have also learned that, in the case of sanitary measures and in the case of sanitary laws..., and that the appropriate Health Department, therefore, is dealing with certain penalties, such as, for example, in a mobilization against the extreme right to the Garriga, in which people are fined not to maintain the distance of security when there are police charges. And, therefore, it seems to us that there is a clear use of a health measure to sanction people who are mobilizing and limiting their right to protest. In some denunciations, in those we have also seen how sanctions have been passed to try to stop a denunciation and not to maintain the security gap. We also saw the Barcelona Urban Guard deal with sanctions of this type. We have also seen, in mobilizations in support of Pablo Hasel, how sanctions of this type have been dealt with. We believe that there is no form of healthcare justification here, and that, therefore, extraordinary legislation has been used to punish people who were using their right to protest. We think that this cannot be repeated, that this cannot be produced. And, as I said before, in the young man we will put forward proposals in this sense, as can be the withdrawal and the work to withdraw these sanctions and as can, also, open various lives of debate, parliaments, so that we can assess all this question. In short, it seems essential to us – and I am finished, President – that there is a debate on the effects of the measures to deal with the pandemic on the rights of the people, and that losing the opportunity to do so in a context of major, say, normal or greater overcoming of these more restrictive situations of pandemic would be a mistake, because we don't know what can happen in the future, and in any case we didn't expect it and spent a time. Let's hope I never get over it again, but in any case, I'll take our dues. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.288.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, has the word Justice's Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.289.0	Thank you very much, President. I thought he was going to say, Member, "I took our confessions, but no, I suppose I didn't... [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] Anyway, with regard to the subject he was commenting on, it's that we agree, huh? And when you have listed the people and the impact that the pandemic has had, we must also make a special element, for example, of people who have mental health problems, young people – who have been deprived of what they are propitious to, that is to go out, that is to go out, that is to go out, that is to go out. All this has had an impact. The one who assumed the masks in the classroom. There's a lot of young people who don't want to take them out because they're in evidence, so some physical defects that aren't such, but that's how they feel. Or, for example, the policies that have to be made in habitation, because there have been many people there... Miri, just before the pandemic we were at Merinals, which is a Sabadell bar that you know, and had had some breakdowns. Maybe there was a week missing, which we had... and then they confined us. Some floors, some dwellings that there were five or six people and that had a single room. Imagine's, isn't it? , the confinement in some conditions like these. Therefore, all this took place in families that did not have a space to be able to be with certain comfort, and therefore, including the right to decent housing was not so, in those conditions. Therefore, this is a fact that needs to be addressed. Tell him one thing, there's no overpopulation in prison. I'm telling you because, honestly... we can have... or today we have less prison population, and so we can't talk about overpopulation, because we have, fortunately, a lot of space in prison. They're not full, and we want to. And, besides, if we can continue to work on the implementation that we give in the wake of alternative criminal measures and to promote the compliment with freedom of the penises, then, still less, right? because she's trying to get old for reinsertion. To tell him that, for example, as a result of the pandemic, many deprivations of freedom and compliments were given at home. So, today, we don't know of any degree regression or conflict with the people who completed their pandemic home, you know? Because these are also measures that were taken at that time. In any case, also aggravate to the citizenry the exercise of enormous responsibility that he did, because they went, therefore, among all, looking as sure as possible to the public space, as sure as possible to the old man for the common salvation, right? And, therefore, here we went..., a citizenry that was formed and that was aware of the reality that there was; therefore, a mature citizenry in, this aspect. And how, effectively, we can find ourselves again in a circumstance so – we wouldn't want to, but we could pass –, that this debate. You can learn from experience. We need to get rid of these analyses, because they are close to modern countries, to progressive countries and to defend that, when they have collided two or several phonological rights – one of them, salvation, with others – we need to see who has to give in, or, in any case, as some have to give in, if they have to give in. Because all this is a reflection that a state that we want progressive and right... that doesn't have to have problems if, eventually in the future, it's back to producing. So, nothing more. And many thanks for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.290.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about political espionage]] [[300-00159/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about political espionage, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. You have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.291.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vilagrà, we are asking this question about political espionage because the gravity of the facts of "Catalangate en questionála, in fact, to all of us; en questionála to all of the citizenry. We are in front of the case of massive cyber espionage that has so far been unearthed, and, moreover, it is directed directly against the Catalan independence movement, against those that we legitimately defend a Catalan republic of rights and freedoms for everyone. But let us not be mistaken: this massive espionage, this scandal, goes far beyond the Catalan independence movement. Two years ago we knew the situation of espionage through the programmer Pegasus against various political leaders. At that time he met, he knew that it affected the president of the Parliament of then, the Roger Torrent, also the deputy of this chamber Ernest Maragall or the former deputy– the enyorada– Anna Gabriel. Now, however, and thanks also to the investigations of the Canadian laboratory Citizen Lab and also the altar that provided the North American media The New Yorker, we have found that this network, this espionage, which first affected some very concrete people, is much harder. It's a lot wider, even wider, than we can imagine, and it transcends, even more, not just to the State, obviously, but to the European level, to the international level, as we have also seen, for example, in the editorial of The Washington Post. I suppose it's a medium that, in this case, the minister does need to know, more than the New Yorker. In any case, it's said. Therefore, we are ahead of a major scandal, a case that affects human rights as at least sixty-five people who have been shown to be linked to the independence movement, and very directly affects people linked to this parliamentary chamber, from the proper Member but also President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès, the President of the Parliament, Mrs Laura Borràs, Members such as Josep Maria Jové, Meritxell Serret and Ernest Maragall, but also Albert Batet, Josep Rius, Elsa Artadi, in Quim Jubert, Jaume Alonso-Ceuvelillas, in Carles Riera, and until the end of the year, the President of the European Parliament, if not the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the President of the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the President of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the That's why he said he went much further, because he attacks and affects the Catalan institutions, the institutions of our country. And if it affects and addresses the institutions of our country, among them this chamber, the Parliament of Catalonia, or the Generality of Catalonia, it affects all the citizens. Because attacking institutions is one way to attack the democratic majority and citizenry, it affects democracy itself. It goes a lot further, too, because we don't only talk about political leaders – as if there isn't enough. But it is that, moreover, there is much more going on: it has been spying on and persecuted activists, journalists, family members of people who do have public responsibilities; therefore, members of a legitimate democratic and peaceful movement. Even lawyers, people that do it is to defend rights in cases, so, from other people. With "Catalangate", the Spanish State can clearly say that it has violated fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy. Imagine everything you have in your mobile phone that is now stolen and can be used in any way against you at any time. That's it. That's what's going on. Ready to hurt, obviously; used against and willing to hurt. But it also affects, violates and adulterates electoral processes, negotiation processes and judicial processes. It's like in the movies: "Everything you say can be used against you. In this case, it's not a fictitious case, it's a real case. And we're in the same mood. This is true: "Everyone who gets from you through espionage, through being able to take what you have in your electronic devices, I will use it against him. Electoral processes may have been adulterated. How could they affect it? How was it used, this espionage, in the data obtained during the electoral processes – so, the elections of 2017, 2019, the last of 2021? Who can deny having had privileged information to use it to draw 'no electoral benefit or electoral revenue? That's what happened with the Watergate. And we all talk about it and we know how it ended and what consequences it had. We're talking about similar situations. Or in negotiation proceedings, too. How has the information being heard been used when negotiating an investiture, any particular law or, without going any further, the meetings of the negotiating table that has existed so far? Or, as we said, in court proceedings. If they're spying on lawyers, we're ahead of the defense right violation. How did it hurt the defense, that? Who served that information? In what way? It's very hard. It's very hard. And today we didn't talk this morning, but it still feels hard, very much. There is one who does not want to be aware of the gravity of this situation, the magnitude of this scandal, because they are either used to or have tended to dehumanize political opponents or have tended to justify repression, which is what we are seeing these last hours. So no. Before this situation, there's enough. And we are clear that it is what has to happen, that it is what we want, that it is what we demand. From the start, information and answers. Yeah, right away. Investigation to clarify the facts. With all the guarantees, with the highest celerity and with all the transparency. The explanations must be public, not in commissions that we don't know who guarantees it or the veracity of the information, and which then can't explain anything, because, if not, they're incurring a crime. Lights and tachographs. And, obviously, assuming responsibility, which, in politics, means resigning. It seems, however, that at the moment they have not understood. They must not reject investigative commissions; they must reject espionage, escandol. They don't understand at the moment. Seriously, before this scandal, what has been the response of the Government of the State so far, the Government of PSOE and Podemos? If he makes a couple of days of saying, speaking of this case, that the answer was insufficient, today we can say that even the whole answer is insulting. At this hour, the response of the Government of the State before the case of greater espionage, the case of massive persecution through the Pegasus program, is, after all, insulting, not only insufficient. Mirin, first they talked... well, they didn't talk, first they did silence, and, therefore, silence and denial. This was the first answer on the part of the first spokespersons who spoke on behalf of the Government of the State, silence and denial: "The Government has done nothing, "Here nothing has happened, this is lied. Second, after: disclaimer of the fonts, disclaimer of the international media that have spoken of this case, even of the work of Citizen Lab. It's what we've been hearing the last few hours. Now this has evolved: from silence and denial or misrepresentation of the sources we have passed to acceptance of espionage, to say yes. And not only that: to justify it, because we deserve it, for reds and separatists. And before us, before independence, what he wants is to create a new country, it's all worth it. This is the insulting message that the Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, has told us today from the Congress Hall of Deputies: that against independence is all. [[Greetings.]] So no. It's not all right. We'll answer it to the minister. The minister asked what a government must do before independence, of those we want to build a new state. So what the state has to do, what the government should do before independence, is neither crude war nor falsify nor maintain the state's locksmiths, but win in the ballot box, which is what we do. He's got us in the ballot box. But it turns out they don't win. In democracy, conflicts... the majority vote in the ballot box. So if they want to win us, they want to win us at the polls. It's democracy, and it's what we do. And if they don't, how long it's been, so... attend to the democratic majorities. That in this chamber, that in this country, the democratic majority say that, certainly, there is a social majority in favour of a Catalan republic – and it does not alienate me, before the actions of the Government of the State – in favour of building a Catalan republic of equal opportunity for everyone, and of doing so through amnesty and doing so through self-determination. With the statements of Minister Robles today, justifying this brutal war against a legitimate, democratic movement, like ours, we believe that it has been utterly incapacitated by any political responsibility, by any public responsibility. In fact, it would have been terminated in a fulminant way in any democracy of any democratic, truly democratic, state of the world. It is more, if the minister or any other member of this Spanish government or of those who have formed part of the previous governments knowing about this case of espionage, it is difficult; it is difficult, because they were not accomplices. If I don't know, it's still harder, because I mean things are going on that they don't control. But if you know now – and no one doubts that this is happening – allow it, justify it and don't do anything to avoid it, it's double..., triple hard. Honestly, we see that we find ourselves before a decaying state of politics and with a total lack of democratic quality, this Spanish state. And, before that, the only decent exit the state government has is resignation, taking responsibility; lights and tachographs, as it was once before, about thirty years ago, in another case of espionage, when Narcis Serra resigned. Councillor Vilagrà wanted to add a few more reflections. Therefore, I reserve the word for later, to finish making some reflections, as I said, but we would certainly be interested to know which is the position of the Government before all this situation, before this scandal is absolutely capital. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.292.0	The word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.293.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, these days we are talking a lot, a lot, about the "Catalangate", and, obviously, there is no less. And we'll do whatever it takes, because it's an authentic scandal and obviously we have to report it. I can hardly add more to what the President himself has explained today in the morning, or different parliamentary groups, or you yourself in this intervention. But, in any case, it is a flagrant attack on the more fundamental individual rights and freedoms and a political persecution of the Catalan independence movement, which, in fact, today has recognised the Minister of Defense boldly and disembodied. The first difficult issue was that this issue came out of an international journalistic investigation. Therefore, it was unearthed from the outside, because, obviously, this violation, therefore, comes with an extreme gravity, from these journalistic media. As you said, the first reaction of the government was to deny it, to run away from the study, to try that it is not great, while there has been a great deal of foreign pressure. There have been various international bodies that have not gone through this issue, and obviously have seen the gravity of these facts. You, MP, explained it very well in your intervention, but in fact, the whole world, and also the Catalan society, we want to know what happened. And, therefore, we want this state no longer to love itself, and, as we say this morning, as someone said this morning, "Let us set the light in the dark. Therefore, the second reaction of the State: thematic proposals. This was the second, the second possibility. Meanwhile, the European Parliament is creating an unpublished committee of inquiry and – attention – announces that it is possible to review the furniture of all MEPs so that they can be analysed and verify whether they have been molested. And, for the time being, the Congress of Deputies, led by the PSOE, is neither there nor expected in this area. And I want to remember that Euro MPs – President Carles Puigdemont, Diana Riba, Toni Comín, Jordi Soler – may have been spies, and therefore many MEPs have seen their conversations there. From this scandal, independence closes files, has a unitary layout, presents joint actions: "The independenceists will regain the strategic consensus to fight for individual and collective freedoms and the path to self-determination and amnesty. In fact, it was from Europe, through the Cilevics report, which required the State to put an end to this repression, from one gang, but it also required, from another, to start a frank, firm and full-scale negotiation process. And they urged them, Spanish State, but they also urged us to make it very clear. In fact, we never said that this strategy of negotiation with the State was an easy way, but what we have found these days is not a stone on the road. We are ahead of a case of hard illegal espionage, very hard, in democracy, in Spanish democracy. The hardest and the biggest in Europe. But, as I say – and I think that in this I have a lot of knowledge of cause for my institutional attributes in relation to the State and in relations in bilateral commissions – let us not forget that this balance until now, today, is poor, poorer than we would deserve from Catalans and Catalans. And let us call it that it needs to be improved, and a lot. We don't want to manage timid advances, we don't want to manage wreaths, we just want to aspire to much more. We need and deserve a lot more. Because citizenship asked us to keep our lives open from dialog, because this path needs to weave complicitys to advance in the best of our citizenship's life, and to advance, for another band, in the right to self-determination, but it is obvious that this dialog requires some minimum conditions, some conditions that are obviously to be trusted, and now we don't have it. We can't look at one gang of spies or spies and the other gang of spies. We can't work intensively if the President of the Government or representatives and many other members of the Government, and obviously all the other people you have commented on, but now I'm focusing on the Government..., as I said, we can't work intensively if these people may have been spies. You don't feel like you're doing this. At this point the trusts are truncated. And we think we can say it louder, but we can't say it more clearly, because if you pretend that a party is going to support you and you're going to pretend, so, anyway, that this path goes on, you have to make decisions, when one of these things happens, very clearly, and you get to the end. A few years ago, the same party that now governs the state, with the presidency of the government, said: "Facts, don't talk. Well, let's hope: facts, and agree to investigate any shadow of doubt about the illegal methods used for the State to spy and to obtain information. Fact, and do not store the head under the wing making proposals that at these times arrive late and poorly, bound, surely, by international pressure. The independenceists have long since had no hope in the State, and we have seen the keystrokes of the State in a clear way, and we work knowing that a given reference would be the best solution to become a good state. And you say, "Conflicts are resolved by voting. To deal with the question of espionage, I myself met with the Minister of the Presidency, as you know, Felix Bolaños. And all the while I said, once this meeting was over, that the proposals were absolutely insufficient and that they were, therefore, more a make-up than not a willingness to arrive until the end. What the Government is proposing is not an adequate, conclusive response; it is not what we expected. We know, moreover, that they would always hide behind official secrets, and therefore give us no guarantee of knowing all about this issue. Everything that's happening in a franchise law of official secrets of year 68 is absurd, when we're talking about mass espionage of the civilian environment. I insist, a law prepared for a bewitched state. And, in this case, at this time the Spanish Government is adamant that it will not be transparent. Therefore, a law that is more frank than a current powerful technology that allows absolutely aggressive, unethical and untransparency espionage is a weapon of mass destruction against phonental rights. And that's what we find here. [[Greetings.]] Today, moreover, the Minister of Defence has put a great deal of emphasis on and has dug even deeper into her well, and has recognized, without despatch, that she does not think to do anything, and the President of the Government, of the Spanish Government, has somehow endorsed it. The longer you pass, the worse the consequences. The President of the Government of the State, after the appearance of the scandal, still holds the head under the wing and has not proposed clean-up of responsibilities and have those responsible resign or cease to be responsible for this matter. And what's the point, we ask from the government, of an investigation into an official secret committee of the Congress of Deputies? We have hopes, let's say it, little bits of intertwining, because in the best of cases it would give explanations to parliamentary groups, but no one could move the results out of the committee, to public opinion. Therefore, the citizenry, which is the real injured in this scandal, would not know what happened, would not know the truth. Therefore, the questions that we were actually going to realize, therefore, in the meeting, and, in any case, until now, have not been answered. I would like, therefore, to remind them again, because it is really important to know in what terms it is thought to do this internal investigation, of a band, of the CNI, which is proposed; how and when the results are made public; how many people who do not yet know can have affected this scandal; how everyone knows who ordered the escorts, and we do not doubt that the Government knows it; who knew about this massive espionage; who and why ordered it, with what objective; what has been done, of the information obtained; who custody; who has had access to it or still has access to it; who has public responsibilities – and for us this is the most relevant – is willing to take on; how it is guaranteed to the Catalan society that it has not been represented, as a guarantor, as a future agent. We were going out of the diumenge meeting with more questions than you didn't answer. In this case, the "Catalangate", it seems to us that it is no exception, but that it is a symptom of the depth and abst of the general cause against independence which, in fact, today the minister has openly recognized. But we also want to make it very clear that we don't want any Turkish head, we don't want technical audits, we don't want excuses. We want to demand a reaction to the gravity of the violation of rights that has occurred to the people investigated, but above all, because all Catalans and Catalans deserve it, and, above all, all the Democrats in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.294.0	And then, at the turn of the line, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.295.0	Thank you very much, President. Thanks, she will advise, for her reflections, for the explanations she was making to us now, both of the meetings of these last days and of the government work that they have been able to do. We reiterate what we have been talking about, and what we believe to be right now before this scene: information, investigation – the need, obviously – with lights and tachographs, as you have now said; therefore, with transparency and responsibility. And it's important to continue in this line that we were also explaining now and that we believe it is essential: coordinated action and joint action as much as possible. We've seen it make a statement by the Spokesman's Council here in the framework of the Catalonian Parliament, for example. Today it was read by the President of the Parliament, signed for the commons, for the CUP, for Juntes for Catalonia and for Esquerra Republicana. We also saw it with the government agreement that they approved the government itself yesterday and that it was also commenting on us now. With joint actions also to the Spanish Courts, in the mark, especially, of the Congress of Deputies, among not only the independentist formations, but also all those sovereignist democrats..., as wide as possible, because this does not only go from a direct attack against independence, but also from phonative rights and also democracy. We saw it last week, too, just by flashing the announcement of this scandal, in the European Parliament's mark, with a joint press wheel and with a commission of inquiry, which, there, in the European Parliament's mark, has been opened, precisely because they are aware of the magnitude of this scandal, of this scandal of the "Catalangate", which is a more exemplar of this repression that continues to exist before the independence movement, a part more of this general cause against independence, even though some people agree to see or say that it does not exist, and that this is why they cannot subscribe declarations, therefore, institutionals, from this general cause against independence, but rather from this magnitude that they agree to see or say that it does not exist. There is a persecution of independence by land, sea, air, and by the harpsichords, too, and now we know more than ever. And that is intolerable, in the 21st century: that it is possible to spy, that it is possible to pursue political dissent. And that's why we reiterate that we can't go unpunished, we can't make it look like nothing's happened. With repression, what the Spanish State is trying to do is say that they don't allow us to win; that we can be independent, maybe, but we can't win. And if we win, we destroy. Since they can't win us in the polls, they seek to win us for other lives: for repressive lives, for the brute war, for the harpsichords. So, you know? Despite everything, we won – despite everything, we won. [[Greetings.]] Ever since they spy on us, ever since they repress us, ever since they chase us, we still win. And we'll keep doing it, because our place is democracy and it's the polls. And as if there wasn't enough, he would advise, this morning, and even here, in this same faristol, we have had to feel that separatism is fighting to take it away and illegalize it. As if there wasn't enough to spy on us, to put us in jail or to send us to exile. We have to feel some of this pharystoll, which should not be... in short, it should be impossible, to feel these questions, to break out illegalizing us. This is only said by those who defend totalitarian rules or dictatorships. We are more than defending democracy, rights and freedoms. And it's bad that the weight of those who want us illegalized, in short, and with all the evils on us, we rule the country. Independence governs this country thinking of everyone. We have added the confidence of the citizenry, and so we will continue to do. So, before this capital scandal, he'll advise, we encourage the government. We pose again at your side to continue in this defense of the rights, of the freedoms, with this ambitious and courageous attitude that you now explained to us, and the rest... in fact, the joint government, also the President of the Generality. And they'll always keep us by their side at the service of this town and its people. They will also stand by them to defend and pursue... in other words, insisting that we do not want to give the flag of the democratic path and of the resolution of the conflict, of the negotiated path, to those who do not deserve it. We want to defend it because we know that it is the good one, that it is the one that generates the consensus of country, of amnesty and self-determination. And so we will continue to work to build political solutions. Therefore, maximum force to defend the rights, to denounce these scandals such as the "Catalangate", repression and political persecution, and to continue working to be useful, so as to build the necessary political solutions, along with courts, along with spies, prisons and exiles, and to be useful to build a new country, the Catalan Republic, which in place of keyloggers has opportunities, which in place of espionage is based on democracy, rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.296.0	And, finally, the President's Counsellor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.297.0	Yes, thank you very much. Well, Congresswoman, in fact, before I told you, in your intervention, what actions the government would do to combat this situation, and obviously we have tools and we will use them all. In fact, yesterday the Government of the Generality took action before the gravity of the events, and we agreed to promote political actions and exercise the necessary legal actions at all levels and at all levels. And in this sense, we demand that the State Government exercise its powers to raise the secret of all related actions. I can do it right now. We also ask the Council of Ministers for access to contracts that may have been signed between the CNI and any company related to Pegasus or similar programs. We also require reform of this Francoist law, of which I spoke before, on official secrets. But, for another band, it also repeals the digital decree, which facilitates mass espionage, and this is much more recent and much more damaging, too, to the fundamental rights. It is also our intention to join and express full support for the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into espionage in the Congress of Deputies, the European Parliament and the Catalan Parliament; to make known to the Catalan Data Protection Authority the existence of a security breach so that appropriate actions can be initiated in accordance with European data protection legislation, and, finally, to entrust – already in charge, in fact – the Legal Office of the Generality with the study and the proposal of actions coming from a legal point of view before the police, judicial, relevant institutions to defend the Generality and also all its servants and public servants. We don't have institutional normality – we're seeing it these days – and now it's been more than a few days since this scandal broke out. Because, in fact, historically, the State has repressed political dissidents, and now we know that, moreover, the State pursues and follows people for their ideas – independent ideas, in this case –; it follows them systematically with preventive intent, violating its intimacy, knowing which web pages look, which contacts we have, what our girls do... And that's disgusting. That's why we want to be independent, too. In Catalonia, he repugnant, that kind of behavior. We have common values that do not tolerate this modus operandi. And that's not normal in democracy. Nor is it normal to have three thousand reprisals, some pending trials, with incredible prison petitions. Nor is it normal to negotiate the political conflict so much; it is not normal, before a historical and democratic conflict, that it has such an obtuse view, so immobiliistic and with a very harsh repressive response. Therefore – and we reiterate what you have said and from the government we have also said – we demand answers, we demand explanations, we demand to investigate the question and, obviously, the assumption and clearance of responsibilities. Only then will there be guarantees of respect for the fundamental rights, and only then will we be able to consider the Spanish State as a democratic state acceptable to European democracies. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.298.0	Let's move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government about the vocational training system of course 2022-2023, which the Socialist and Unites Parliamentary Group presented to us to move forward. [[Interview with the Government on the vocational training system of course 2022-2023]] [[300-00155/13]] And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.299.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Counselor, hello again. Well, the pre-registration of the format cycles is on track, and from my group we found it necessary to be able to share some of the concerns we have about the new developments that the government has announced to the communication media in the field of vocational training. And, first of all, if it seems right to us to explain the integrated offer of vocational training, we have to say that what has been announced in the field of education – therefore, medium degrees, higher degrees, IFEs, PFIs, because you have to agree with me that it is not the same title as a certificate of competence, for example –..., so this offer seems to us to be all insufficient in response to the demand that has been registered in the last years and to which we want to aspire to achieve an increase in the medium and higher level of format of citizenship. We understand that we have to increase in seven thousand places, when the last few years we have had pre-registrations of more than twenty thousand people, who later have remained excluded from the system due to lack of public offer..., so we do not seem to give to make triumphalism or great headlines, and so much good is wrong. And, in fact, if the past course and the previous ones the problem was the injustice that I assumed, because many students from ESO's quarter had ended up opting for different format cycles than they had been – for example, a person who had applied for information purposes ended up being administered, for example, because there were places there; not to make him, to stay at home, with the frustration that this implies; to make a call without wanting him or a distance training, with the difficulties that he supposes for the creation of the necessary link, especially when we speak of smaller students, and we know the other thing about abandoning all these options; and here I would like to ask him for the necessary link, especially when we are talking about smaller students, and we know the other thing that can be done in the form of these options; and here I would like to ask him to create the necessary link, especially when we are talking about smaller students, so that we can not register this problem in the form of the first form of this. But it's that this procedure designed could also leave no room for other people who want and have right to access it. For example, those people who came from battling, some who went through the year chose battling for lack of seats and who could now take the step; adult people with ESO title who would want a new opportunity to improve their training or qualification– and here we know that one_of_each_five people who ask for the middle degree is already in this situation. Not to mention the difficulty of continuous training that we can find between the middle and upper grade students who want to continue attending and consolidating a specialized training itinerary. Well, that worries us a lot, and we see that we find access barriers that can give places to unfair situations. Because this is not only due to an insufficient public offer, but also due to a lack of planning. And it is that the advertised offer remains uncorresponding with a correct prospect of the sectoral and territorial training needs to be made with participation and consultation with economic and social agents, with the territorial councils of the FP, with the municipalities, with the regional councils – to give some examples. And, in this country, since the 2015 Vocational Training and Qualification Act, we don't have this map, and it's starting to get desperate. And we ask ourselves how they can do the planning correctly, if they don't have a map of training needs in the territory. How can that be done? So surely it's done as it is done. And, obviously, therefore, the Catalan model of production and a society that we want dynamic, like our own, requires a system of professional training uplifting, which is a lever of transformation of an economy that has to be digital, green, knowledge-based, that drives industry 4.0– to set some examples–, and which also enables people to be trained, specialise in, improve employability, and can revert to a better integration and job reintegration capacity of many people. So it can't be that we have so many businesses that paint the difficulty of attracting, retaining talent, professionals specialising in different areas, when we have a youth tourism that exceeds twenty-i-set_per_cent, and that so many young people are excluded from entering a middle-grade qualification training, when the great challenge we have as a country is to change this training structure, is to increase much more people with medium-sized and higher levels to precisely face the backs of our day's labour market. And that is why a policy of initial and lifelong training of quality, that is flexible, that is inclusive, that is accessible. And, therefore, we do not understand that we have so many form cycles that require businesses without demand and many very demanding cycles with low employment. This means that the orientation does not exist. And the orientation is the great assignature hanging. And it's hard to hear that, seven years after our law, there's no manual on the orientation to be made to the student. Just yesterday they say they've finished an orientation guide for guidance people, but it seems like everything... so, I don't know, maybe we should congratulate ourselves on that, but, look, no. The orientation service today doesn't work. And it's urgent to approach him. You're urgent. Just like the impulse of institutional campaigns to promote vocational training. Or is it that the government considers that it is a second option, that better not to announce it, it was not the case that the demand again overcomes them? And, on the other hand, we're worried about this offer, where it's created and how. This offer to 276 new groups that have announced... how many fans are in a new creation center. I would like to know how many professional training centres will operate and how many groups, therefore, will be set up in existing centres, in the afternoons or in barracks. And ask him if he can take note of this question, because yesterday we insisted several times on the President of the Public Professional Training and Qualification Agency and he did not answer us at any time. Because it is obvious that there has been an insufficient investment in secondary schools, also in machinery, in technology. We have young masses of obsolete machinery that are not what they find at the market; in technologies that are not of later generation that we need to dominate future specialists. And, therefore, much more investment in the maintenance of educational centres, especially in the renovation of materials, machinery, litigation, programs, as well as in the adaptation of laboratories, classrooms or workshops. About raties. Here, then, we understand that you can't get a foot from the reduction of rates to children and keep the FP with rates of thirty-three. We accepted the exceptional situation that somehow found the past course, with a demand that they did not expect, that they had not planned, but encany is not acceptable, because he knows perfectly well that such large groups are difficult to manage, because they do an eminently practical formation, which, moreover, would have to be inclusive, in order not to talk about the distance teaching that the IOC does. And we also need a different governance from professional training in the line that Basques or the system that the Government of Spain has promoted, not an agency that calls on the Presidency to agree with the Department of Work and Business, the Department of Education, the Department of Universities, the Department of Climate Action. And we understand, therefore, that it is an integrated system that does not depend on so many departments, because this remains agile. And I wanted to end up with some telegraphic questions. In the first place, about integrated vocational training centres. Here, if we compare it with other autonomous communities, we have Castella and Lleó in thirty-one, València in fifteen, Catalonia in zero. And, therefore, I would like to ask you, counselor, if the proper course is in operation already some integrated professional training center, such as Martorell's car, or if there will be even more. On the other hand, we ask ourselves how they intend to approach the challenge of the accreditation of competitions of people who have experience, but in change, they do not have a title that certifies me. And what is the forecast of accreditations this 2022 also to take advantage of the important resources that are coming, therefore, from the Spanish Government with this objective. For those who do taxes, here we ask you to eliminate professional training taxes. In the same way that they do not exist to batsillerat, they must not exist in the professional formation. We think it's a shame that a government that says it's from the left to keep taxes that the government of Artur imposed on its day but, with the support of the People's Party, that it was a government, therefore, that it didn't believe in the FP. And you haven't moved a word to change this situation. This is neither encouraging FP nor working for equal opportunities. And we are also concerned about the low incorporation of women in cycles related to industry, with STEM disciplines, so as not to reproduce or make even greater the wage gap in sectors that are of the future – which, in fact, are already present. And, therefore, here we have to say that the measures, that if they exist, therefore, are moving, we understand that they are not enough, and that, in any case, they must be reconsidered or improved. For dual training, we understand that the bet to be made for FP is also a bet for corporate training – therefore, for dual training. And, in this sense, we want to ask him, therefore, what concrete aid will be spent on the very course of peppers, micro peppers, which are mostly those that configure our economic fabric, to encourage this dual formation, the formation of tutors or business guardians, because it seems to me that it is a very relevant subject. And, for what it does to help, we also want to know if there will be any help available to students, to people who are learning, because they can move to form centres, to companies with difficult access, which can also complement the scholarships of the ministry, as others do..., many others, in fact, autonomous communities. Yesterday they also explained that the Government has announced an inn out of a pilot platform to encourage foreign languages in one hundred and sixty groups of formed cycles. And we want to ask him, so, in which language is he going to do this formation, with which criteria is sort of one language or another, and if that depends on the formation family. And, finally, we know that the social and economic consequences of Putin's invasion of Ukraine on the international level are also being noted in the education system. The centres have seen a significant increase in their administrative expenditure, and, in some cases, the monthly bills for lighting have doubled, especially in vocational training centres which make intensive use of machinery or technology. And here we want to ask if the department has planned to increase the allocation to the educational centres for sub-administrations or if the government has issued some kind of order, instruction, consumer or energy education that may affect the functioning of machinery or technology in vocational training centres. So, thank you, counselor. I hope, therefore, his answers. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.300.0	Then, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.301.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Niubó, as always, you raise a lot of fears, and I will try to answer them. Before, if I may, I will give you some background elements of the new vocational training, and we will also share some of the concerns that you raised and we will also try to share these novelties in front of the next course. We said it last year. Last year we found ourselves with many more requests – that's right, that's right – with many more requests that you place. I had just come in as a counselor, and what we said was that this has to be the legislature of vocational training. And, therefore, this went on to make different decisions than had been taken until then. Basically, these different decisions were aimed at some of the aspects that you have raised, and we have started a path in this direction. The first is the subject of adapting the offer, really, in the cases you need, when you need it – and then I will talk about prospecting, which we have begun to start this way in a more structured way – because the offer of vocational training places has to answer yes or yes to the needs of the labour market. And this is a way we've started to do. Another important issue, which you also referred to, is that we have a lot of margin for guidance, a lot of margin for guidance. We're not doing well. And, therefore, this year we have also begun to implement a series of measures to improve, to structure this orientation so that the student really knows..., having all the information possible to see which are the format cycles that most fit their attitudes and abilities, then, precisely, also..., this orientation is fought against abandonment, that, unfortunately, we continue to have the format cycles, above all of the medium degree. Therefore, orientation, training and – you also mentioned – accreditation of competitions; an important leap in this legislature in the accreditation of competitions, taking advantage, as you well said, of European foundations. There is another look that until now was not present to the professional formation, which is this integration of the offer. Or, integration of the offer into a professional training with the certificates of professionalism, which until now was the training for the occupation, the continuing training and the titles suitable for the Department of Education. Therefore, this integration of all the offer of vocational training, where, regardless of the courses you take..., this is all a mess and you can go accumulating and taking advantage of the time to go betray different titles, it is a change of look very relevant to the education system for which it does to vocational training, to make it more flexible, more useful, more adaptable to the needs of our young people and our young people. You were talking about the subject of requests. Before I said – it's true –: "Last year there were twenty thousand requests for more than places we offered. This information up here is right. What is not true – and we have shared this on different occasions, and I go back to moving it there – is that these requests answer to a student who really wants to do professional training. And there is a fact that it is very relevant, and it is that, from these twenty thousand requests, the past course did not have four thousand in the middle and 3,700 in the higher grade format cycles that had made the pre-registration, if it was assigned with an option requested to its pre-registration and did not end up enrolling. Therefore, it is certain that there are more demands than it offers, but it is also true – and this, if we do not want to transmit information that does not conform to reality, we need to be able to explain it this way – that at present there is a lot of students – and this will continue to happen, and it will continue to pass through the coming course – that it is making a quarter of ESO and does not know if it will still be battled, and aims at a medium-grade format cycle. Or, when they finish batting, they aim for a higher-grade formatting cycle and then they select to go to college. Therefore, they are students who can do the pre-registration that after they do not study; that they are assigned the plaza they have asked for, but do not take these studies. It was about the IOC. The year passed to the IOC, of all these requests that in a first instance did not enter the requested option and that after, as you know, they made an extraordinary expansion of the offer..., there was only one norm that was registered to the IOC – therefore, it was one more possibility. You know that the IOC offers distance training in many other format cycles, in many format cycles. And, therefore, what we did was empower and..., what we did was that everyone who wanted to study format cycles offered by the IOC at a distance could do it, regardless of the places the IOC held. And that's what we ended up doing, but only a ninety-one chose, from those who had made the request face-to-face. Therefore, I gave you, to improve this planning, above all the orientation, and to what you refer to foresight, which is this coordination with the economic and social agents of the country. And, if I may, a couple of uplifting novelties, very important in the face of the coming course. The first: inspired by the LEC of 2009..., the LEC of 2009 what we see is the universality of the student who finishes fourth of ESO because he can study medium-grade format cycles, but this never happened. And so what we've done this year is to change the pre-registration process to ensure this continuity, because all the fourth-grade ESO student who wants to attend a middle-grade format cycle study in the format cycle in which he's been oriented has a guaranteed place. And that's what we've done, and this is a novelty. Second important novelty of the offer of the coming course: increase of offer – increase of offer. For the coming course, we would increase the offer with the titles of the Department of Education of vocational training; we would increase the offer more than the sum of the increments of the last five years. And, if we add up to what we've been doing the year with what we're doing for the next course, these two years we're increasing the offer more than the sum of the last twelve years, the increments of the second twelve years. Therefore, it is true that we came from a few years where vocational training had not grown enough. And, therefore, before the increase in demands, which is a country's success, it is a country's success, because vocational training is sorting out every time as the first option, and, therefore, it is a country's success – –, what we are doing is reacting and making this increase of offer. And we are convinced that with this balance that I gave you, of which I really want to study the format cycles as much of a middle degree as of a higher degree and this increment of places that we have already brought for this year, but that we consolidate and increase with 276 groups for the coming course, we give answer to the needs and the demands that we will have for the next course. If I may, I would explain a lot of things to him... some outstanding news, too, of this offer for the coming course. We put the emphasis on..., a twenty-i-five percent of the increment was geared to the student in a vulnerable situation. And that's very important, especially for what it does in the middle. We are implementing a pilot plan to encourage foreign languages between the student and the teacher in the format cycle: a 20_per_cent of the teaching hours will be taught in foreign language in more than one hundred_sixty groups of format cycle. We offer training and support for teachers in digital and technological skills applied to teaching methodologies. It's very important, too, that. Curriculum changes must also be given in many formative cycles, and, therefore, what we will guarantee is that all the teachers, the 100_per_cent of the teachers, of the professional formation faculty of Catalonia, can access, during 2022, these formations in an open platform, twenty-four hours, with the support of a tutor who will guide them. We also increase the classrooms of applied technology and the promotion of entrepreneurship. We implement – very important, too, this – thirty-six specialisation courses, which we understand by masters of professional training. What we do is implement thirty-seven specialisation courses, with a duration of between fifty and seven hundred hours. For what you are doing to the foresight and what you were talking about, we are on the line of what the European Union says. We increase digital economy, green economy and people's attention. We create cycles for sports, health, skin-related activities, fish and seafood, and animals and green spaces; this has been done with a prospective land raid. Let's increase some form cycles that know they're in demand and that know they're also responding to job market needs, such as driving transport vehicles. We also increase renewable energies, promotion and gender equality. We also respond to this increase in demand. And as they continue to go out on the labour market, we also significantly increase the scope of computer science. Last year there were two cycles with an increase of offer much above the rest, which were of micro-informatics and xarxes systems, and of nursing care and auxiliaries. And what we do is we increase the offer very significantly, too, in these groups. On the subject of orientation, then, if you give me time, I would like to explain something more to you, to which you refer for what you do to the orientation manual. Orientation does not only focus on the quarter of ESO and after batting; we have started a course to offer it to other courses to advance the information as much as possible. Encanny we open an office..., this is important, because we open an office and this will go further: we open an access office to professional training in the city of Barcelona to inform the student of the formary itineraries, with this comprehensive and flexible offer of the different fields that integrate professional training. And I'm falling for a little while. I've got a few things left to answer. Then, on the other side, I hope I can do it. I've got notes on them, haven't I? , Esther; well, Congresswoman Niubó – forgive me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.302.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.303.0	Yes; thank you, counselor. Thanks for the explanation, for the answer, but a lot of answers, I'm missing, huh? Now I just don't remember any, if you've got them pointed at you. The theme of creating new groups: if they are in new construction centers, how many of us will have the year you see, where they will be created, if they are done in late hours... And on top of that, too, the degree of abandonment of those students who last year were unable to access the cycle they wished for precisely lack of offer. And, look, advising the offer is insufficient. You can give him back. If we want to aspire to change, to "transform – which you like so much, this word – the formative structure, if we want to increase the number of citizens with a medium and higher level of formation, that is to increase the offer much more. There's not enough to guarantee that the ESO quarter students can make the cycle they want. Obviously, it's a step ahead of your fans, I already recognize it, but it's very insufficient. Lack of planning and prospecting of needs. If there is no map, the famous map that already gave the law of 2015..., how to make a correct planning, if there is not this prospect? There's no reversal. Lack of investment in equipment, technology, machinery. There's no right direction. And, actually, so, in the end what they've done is a guide to guiding the counselors. That's not enough, it's not the guidance service we need. And we are convinced – and we are so wrong – that this pre-registration process will leave many other people out: those who come from battling, the adult people who have an ESO title but who were working and who want to strengthen their training... And they're right. Integrated vocational training centres are missing. We've got zero. This is another very important issue. I, above all, lack resources: of the 700_million euros invested in vocational training, 500 of its department, whose share is intended, for example, for Chapter 1? To see which part isn't Chapter 1, right? And it seems to me, counselor, that this doesn't give to make any triumphalism. To bet for the FP is to create, for example, as we propose from the Socialist Group, 38,000 new public places. This... seems to us to be an adapted, modern, future offer. It is to publish the famous map of needs and training offer, pending many years ago, and, moreover, to do so in agreement with the participation of economic and social agents, with the territory. It's a better system of governance unique to vocational training. It's massive accreditation of competitions. It's a real bet for the dual, accompanying the peppers and micro peppers. It's more student help. It's tax elimination, which he didn't answer here either. It's fighting abandonment, and that's also a key issue, having, besides, how we have such an important youth level. And it's working because there are many more women in format cycles, especially those who have to look at STEM professions and who are future professions, and here the percentage of women is still very low, it's around four percent. And it is also an inclusive requirement, with more specific format paths. The one that's very insufficient. And so, counselor, I'm not getting any wider. Let's hope they can work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.304.0	So, finally, the word has the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.305.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, deputies, deputies... yes. See, whatever I'm up to, if I can go and answer it and share it at what time we are. Integrated FP centres: we don't have one, that's for sure. Now a decree of integrated centres is working which is expected to be able to present itself in July. And this one worked in dialogue with social workers. It will be presented to the Rector Commission for Vocational Training, which is the governing body. And from here on, it will be processed as per decree, in the period to make the relevant contributions. Therefore, we anticipate that it is possible to present the July. For what you do to taxes, obviously, we can check it out, huh? The middle grade format cycles are already free, the upper grade format cycles are not free. We can review it, but they're high school students, and so, obviously, we don't have to be conscious. I, I'd just miss it, we'd all be happy to review those taxes. Whenever presuppositional availabilities permit, forward. For what I'm referring to, I'll explain the topic of the centers, but what we've basically done is: with this perspective, what we're doing is... We've followed a process. You already start to know me, and things don't happen alone, and if you're not able to create methods, you can't guarantee that they end up happening or not ending up happening. And, therefore, what we have done is to establish a method, which, as we begin to do, so, obviously, will always have a better margin, but..., that we can go integrated into the system. And, therefore, what we do is to collect with special consideration the needs expressed for companies, with a collection of territorial data, prioritizing the offers where there is this commitment to provide the cycle jointly and with cooperation agreements with the production sector, with the business sector. We prioritize the implementation of cycles and professional families where there is no offer to the area and with requests from the economic sectors; there have been many adjustments in this sense in view of the offer of the coming course. Later, we also ensure the availability of space. And that's it, obviously. You meant very well... we tried to take advantage of all the margin we had on late return to the institutes where that was possible. And, therefore, ensuring the availability of space and equipment, also, as well as equipment, so..., we also make an important reversal with all the growth of number of cycles. Availability of space and equipment in the centre once deployed [[if you feel the alarm of a mobile phone]] , taking into account the current occupancy situation of the building. It'll keep ringing, if you don't... if you'll just give me a moment... [[You're looking for the bottom and the rialles.]] I'm sorry, huh? I was in silence, but it was an alarm, that I thought I'd be out by now, I had to make an urgent call... [[Rialles.]] Excuse me. He apologizes – he apologizes. I haven't had time, President. [[Rialles.]] The president didn't stop my time. « Mecatxis!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.306.0	I missed it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.307.0	He forgave – he forgave. So, I said... I'm sorry, I'm coming back. Deia..., the subject of ensuring the availability of space and equipment in a centre taking full advantage of the possibilities. We have agreed and materialized alliances with 5,569 collaboration agreements, 5,308 of them in dual FP, which you referred to. The theme of the dual FP..., the bet of the department is very clear: every time it works more and better, the dual formation. I don't think that, at these pre-registration and enrollment steps, we can say that the offer is insufficient. I say this very sincerely, because, if not, we have dimensioned it with measures, too..., with the capacity of the department at the presuppositional level, but we have dimensioned it in the sense that we offer. Therefore, it is a size of offer so as to give an answer to everyone who wants to make medium and higher grade format cycles. In any case, that's what we're talking about, but I wouldn't be able to say that it's insufficient, a little with the arguments I gave him before. The subject he gave of the reversal. At the economic level, I'm going to get him the xifra, but what I can tell him is that we're going to get the next 1,022 more teachers. Now the president's doing very well, because the clock's holding up. So, I can go talking, huh? [[Rialles.]] We have 1,022 more teachers in the system for the coming course in vocational training, more than a thousand more teachers. It's important, this step forward. I don't know... I don't know if it looks like it to you, but I don't know about triumphalisms, I never do. Anyway, what I'm explaining is what we're trying to do to improve the system, to improve things, and they always recognize that things can always do a little better today than we did yesterday. And what's obvious and what we have to do is mark the time we want to get there and start making a pass, because after the first pass you see it next. The map. You're right. The vocational training map is being prepared, which we still don't have. We have begun to do this prospect in a more methodical way, but we still lack the margin to move forward. PS promotion campaigns we haven't done. We ran the competition accreditation campaign and ran the campaign in the twenty-four professional families. And now, next week, we're also expanding this campaign in all three formats. The rates to vocational training: of thirty-three are very exceptional, today. They're very exceptional. The middle of the career paths... are between twenty-five and twenty-five, the subjects of the courses. The accreditation of competitions, you also referred to: important bet. We will. We'll increase it a lot. The subject of women is also very relevant. What we have now is a program that is free of charge to higher-grade form cycle subjects where there are no women or there are not enough women. There's a project that makes this free of charge for the license plate. And, then, the expenses of sub-administration: yes, we have predicted this increase, and we will make up for it with what is needed of the educational centers, depending on the derivations that we have had. It was perfect. We've been coordinating superbly, President. It was perfect: four, three, two, one. Perfect. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-27-2901.308.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you very much.
