ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3083	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you and the 145. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. My greeting, of course, also applies to the present journalists at the gallery and to all spectators at home in front of the screens. [[Members of the ÖVP and the Greens wear yellow-blue buttons; SPÖ representatives wear red buttons with a white Venus symbol; FPÖ representatives wear buttons with the label “Neutrality – yes, Nato – no”; NEOS representatives wear blue or yellow masks.]] The official protocols of 141 and 142. National Council meeting of 23. ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. February 2022 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented are reported today the Deputies Lukas Brandweiner, Mag. Michael Hammer, Dr. Gudrun Kugler, Ing. Klaus Lindinger, BSc, Christoph Stark, Ing. Johann Weber, Christoph Zarits, Mag. Christian Drobits, Cornelia Ecker, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Dietmar Keck, Maximilian Köllner, MA, Mario Lindner, Nurten Yılmaz, Hermann Brügl, MA, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, Christian Lausch, Mag. Christian Ragger, Walter Rauch, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Petra Steger, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Mag. Ulrike Fischer, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorffund Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3204	The Federal Chancellery received the following letter: ‘I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution,’ of 8. March 2022 "In accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, Federal Minister Dr. Wolfgang MÜCKSTEIN has removed his wish accordingly from the office. At the same time, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President appointed Mr Johannes RAUCH as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection.” As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3424	Before entering the agenda, I should like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Health Committee report to the Commission on the request 2227/A for a period of time until 9. ==References== The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I can announce that the meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 5 p.m. ORF III will be presented with the statement of government, the presentation of the Minister of Health. With current developments in Ukraine, ORF III is increasing flexibly. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3451	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, the total speaking time of 4 “Vienna hours” according to § 57 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure so split that 78 minutes on the ÖVP, 54 minutes on the SPÖ, 44 minutes on the FPÖ, 40 minutes on the greens and 32 minutes on the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club, 5 minutes for today's only debate. I shall come to the vote on the speaking time presented. If you agree to this proposal, I would ask for a sign to be drawn. - Thank you, that's accepted. We are in an extraordinary situation today. I welcome the members of the Federal Government, at the head of which the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, quite cordially in our midst. Our greeting also applies to the newly appointed Minister of Health in a very special way. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] In fact, today is a special day, especially for women, the World Women's Day, and we know that we are certainly not at the end of what we have done and want to achieve, especially as far as Parliament is concerned, as far as the number of female Members is concerned at the end of the day. That is why I ask you to take this into account again and again, not only today, but all this time. [[14:38:42]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the restructuring of the Federal Government and on the current situation in the crisis between Russia and Ukraine
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3507	International events have been overlooked. That is why we come to the declaration of the Federal Chancellor and Vice Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request put forward here. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3537	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Dear people living in our country! In these times, a declaration of government is about welcoming a new member of the government in our midst, one – and on the other hand, it is also an opportunity to comment on developments that are currently taking place internationally. But now on the very nice aspect for me: Today, Johannes Rauch was praised by the Federal President as a new Minister of Health. I am going to dedicate myself to him immediately, but I would like to take the opportunity to say a warm thank you to Wolfgang Mückstein – a thank you for being willing to face up to the very demanding task of the Minister of Health at a difficult time. Wolfgang Mückstein was someone who was willing to get out of a profession that has anything other than to do with politics, namely as a doctor, to assume responsibility as a minister. One thing is to be called upon as a minister in the field – and yes, the pandemic does so massively with all its consequences and consequences, just as the pandemic has massively burdened and tormented people in our country for too long; but also Wolfgang Mückstein has had to learn that the political office and the associated burdens are the one, but unfortunately we are now also living in a time when this alone is not enough, but in the personal threats, the danger of one's own life, the threat of the family, all this coincides – and that's very much. I have great respect for the decision he has made to withdraw from his office so that he can also have more security and a better shared life with his children. I think that is absolutely understandable. What I can say as Federal Chancellor is: We have worked together very well together, found pragmatic solutions and put ourselves in the best possible position, according to the best knowledge and conscience of the challenge of the pandemic fight. The Office of the Minister of Health, especially in the pandemic, is one of the hardest jobs in the world. Dear Wolfgang, from this point of view a great thanks for your commitment! [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] This hardest job of the Minister of Health now takes over Johannes Rauch. We've known each other since the coalition negotiations. Above all, one thing connects us, that John Rauch – I could see this today and rejoice with him – is a family man. Today, his family members were also witnesses to his Angelobung, and his mother was there. I have seen the joy in my eyes, on the one hand the family members, but also in your eyes, dear John. It's just this empathy, next to your professional qualification. You've been a member of a state government for many years. You know how extensive political craftsmanship can be. And in addition, I have experienced you as a passionate fighter for the matter, but always in addition to passion I have not lost sight of the goal in order to find a solution together. Dear John, welcome to our government team! I wish you and us a good cooperation and I look forward to it. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] This has been the case for some time: The famous 100 days Already there has long been no longer for new ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] You're already in the middle and you're required. The Commission will submit its report on vaccination requirements and this Commission report will be sent to the National Council in addition to the Federal Government. Your first tasks are to deal with a demanding question together with us. Now, as I said earlier, on the subject that has been working on us all for too long a time now, the Ukraine crisis: The Ukraine crisis is a crisis that is not caused by a natural disaster, but is an invasion war, which is not a limited military action, but a comprehensive war against the people of Ukraine, against women, children, vulnerable groups such as those in need of care. I just got back to the mayor of Kiev recently: There is just the biggest challenge to try to actually give some protection to those people who cannot go independently in air protection cellars. This is just now, while we are sitting here, one of the main tasks of the administration in Kiev, namely to protect civilians from artillery fire, explosions and sniper fire. We also experience that very many people, especially women and children, are fleeing. They need our help, they need our solidarity. It is now about helping quickly and solidarically in Europe – and the willingness to do so. I am very glad that the legal framework has also been set up to ensure that this assistance can also be carried out without problems at European level. But one thing is clear from this point of view: It now takes the determined action of the Russian President to end the war. He's got it in his hand. He is the commander-in-chief of the Russian army. His word has weight. His word has weight to end the suffering of people in Ukraine. Every day counts, every hour counts. You – those who are developing a great deal of understanding for the Russian Federation – can now say that this is the German Chancellor's polemics, but if you hear the reports from Charkiv and other shot cities in Ukraine, then you know that something is happening right now, which in the history after the Second World War has been simply unimaginable, namely that again civilians, women with their children, with their babies, older people are sitting in air guards, if they exist, or in subway stations and there looking for refuge from artillery and missile fire. That's not a war propaganda, it's not a one-sided sign of circumstances, it's happening right now. Then, suddenly, there is a new discussion in Austria, whether our neutrality is being debated. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I find this particularly interesting, because the Austrian neutrality is not one of the no- write-out ports. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who's going on?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Austrian neutrality does not mean looking away, but rather looking; we have committed ourselves to that – internationally as a member of the United Nations. Not to name war, breach of international law and artillery fire of civilians, which is never covered by our neutrality. As Austria, we are a voice for the victims, we are a voice for the women and for the children, and we are not sure those who hide and withdraw because it is suddenly said that we are neutral. When neutrality was decided at the time, it was also decided that we would become a member of the United Nations. This was a clear sign of solidarity and the commitment to assist each other when international law is broken. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That is, our neutrality is more than helpful when it comes to building bridges, offering the dialogue, but let's not pretend and let's not be naïve: We're talking about victims and perpetrators, and we're talking about having a counterpart. Nor will I tire of doing so to call for dialogue, to appeal for dialogue to be better than killing, but it is necessary to get the weapons out of hand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] The one to enter the dialogue now has both hands full of tanks, guns, airplanes, missiles, artillery. [[raising hands one after the other]] And anything has to disappear from the hands, because otherwise no dialogue is possible. Furthermore, I have noticed that one is concerned that the clear positioning of Austria could offend a president. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! The question of a state of mind cannot be linked to the question of whether war or peace exists. Our task now is to seek opportunities together – and this is what we are doing at European level as well as in Austria – to create these dialogue bridges, to build them whenever they are needed, but also to make it clear that we are not silent, when suffering and misery are in our neighborhood, right in front of the door. This is a common commitment and, from my point of view, a common claim – also in the sense of our neutrality, which was, is and will remain. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What is the current situation on the ground? – We are on the day 13 of the Russian offensive, it runs significantly slower than clearly planned. There are dramatic losses on the part of the Russian armed forces like on the side of the defense forces, and there is one thing above all: far too many victims on the civil side. Every day there is this war, every day more means suffering and sorrow for people, and now at last the promised – but never respected – safe corridors are needed to provide the people with supplies, whether it be with supplies or to evacuate them. It takes safe escape routes from the cities, it needs safe escape routes from Kiev, from Charkov, from other besieged cities that are just being shot and in which the free movement on the road and flight is not possible, because people are currently trapped and afraid of being crushed by an artillery shell. Yes, you can ask: Wouldn't it be better for us to slow down? The clubman of the liberals last quoted a Chinese sage at the end of his speech, Sunzi: If you are weak, handle wisely!, those were your words, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Cashier: If you're not strong, you have to be smart, he said!]] The problem is: If Russian occupation troops are in a country fighting against their own people, the ability to act is no longer given, but only one thing: to defend. That makes the difference between a proverb or recognize reality. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] What are we now doing on the part of those who have decided to do so – and I think this is important – how does the West react, how does the European Union react to this war? How would it have been decades ago? – Not by military means. That is, and we must be aware of that, a wise decision, that is wise action, because the West, which now intervenes militaryly, would speak of a world war. There is therefore a clear decision on the part of the NATO Member States, but above all on the part of the European Union, which we can see: Our path is, as clear as possible, to respond as sustainablely as possible with civil possibilities to the fact that war is taking place; these are the sanctions, and they have now been gradually increased. There is also a clear commitment from the European Union that we will decide further stages of sanctions as long as this war continues. He's got to end. People in Ukraine must find a right to life again, not death and the constant threat. But what has also shown: Europe has woken up to an extent I would not have expected. [[Call:Not only Austria]] The willingness to defend, the willingness to increase defence expenditure, the strength and the will of war have increased dramatically – a miscalculation of the Russian President, for he has always said that NATO is so dangerous and has reached its limits. The truth is: How often there was criticism of the The United States of America is that the expenditure on defence is too low, that the European armies have too little capacity to use and too little presence. This will change after this war in Ukraine. There is a clear commitment by the European Union, the Member States, to do exactly that. Just to mention it again, because it was already the subject: Anyone who here in the High House has an understanding of the Russian side, may speak to people from Poland, the Baltic States or our neighbouring country of Hungary, should talk about what it means to be taken out of the house with death lists, to be shot, or to be taken to the Gulags in Siberia. Polemik? - No, I don't. You can talk to the Estonian Prime Minister, whose family was directly affected. The Polish Prime Minister will come to us tomorrow. Poland has suffered twice: once under Nazi terrorism and once under the terror of the Soviets. Poland has clearly stated in the Council of Heads of Government: They will never share and occupy themselves and have their fellow human beings murdered again, but they will take their stand against it. This is not my rhetoric, but that of our Polish friends – and it does not come from superiority, which arises out of fear of an aggressor. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] In other words, we will be measured by how much we put our common efforts to increase security to the ground. The Austrian Federal Government acknowledges this. We will significantly increase defence expenditure, and we will have to re-evaluate military national defence in its entirety, namely the comprehensive military defence of the country, in terms of content, spiritual – why it is important to defend itself – as well as economically and in fact also to implement it; I also think that we will soon adopt the Gas Supply Act. We will also be aware that there is a powerful willingness to defend the country through the Austrian Federal Army. This is our common responsibility. What else are we doing? We are also preparing to become more independent from fossil energy sources in the long term. This is a long-term programme, but that has already been a goal of this government coalition. What we have seen and experience now is: It is precisely this common path of determination that is decisive and even faster than planned, because it is only independence that brings us freedom. At the same time, however, we must pay attention to the present and the present, to the security of energy supply – therefore the Supply Act, which is why we look forward to the next winter and therefore our international efforts to find other gas suppliers. I am just from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, these two regions are particularly important to us in two respects Abu Dhabi is great partner of the OMV and thus strategically important to us, Qatar actually has liquid gas that we need, and the OMV with Qatar includes a delivery contract that includes fix and option deliveries – and from the option deliveries we will now make fixed deliveries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Highly democratic!]] This can only be done if you meet at eye level when you signal trust as a trading partner. Because I have already heard that there are concerns here in plenary that these are also not forms of government that comply with our standards in the European Union: That is true, but the issue is the objective of energy independence, which we must achieve when we think of fossil fuels. With regard to the countries of production You find this finding very often. The decisive thing now is: first phase: Making energy security for people that we also have safety for the next winter, storage of gas; second phase: more energy providers and thus structural reduction of dependence on Russian gas; third step: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Where do they come from?]] Independent from fossil energy sources. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What it needs at this hour is closeness, unity and clarity, and I am grateful that the European Union has so far shown it. At the next Council of Heads of Government this week in France, it will again be our task to demonstrate as heads of government closeness when it comes to: Opposition to war and suffering for the people and for unity in protecting Europe and the people living in Europe. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We in Austria are no longer alone as we were until 1995, but we are part of the European family, of 27 EU Member States, of an economic power in the world compared to many other regions. This must give us the safe awareness that we can also cope with this crisis together by being confident by being clear and by showing that we can help people that we are in solidarity and that we are not being divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3743	Mr Vice-Chancellor is speaking on the floor. I can give him the word. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3771	Mr President. Honourable Members! Dear Austrians and all the people who live in Austria! The occasion of today's special session is, among other things, a government transformation, and I would also like to address first of all the very difficult, the more responsible, but serious, decision of Wolfgang Mückstein. First of all, thanks to Wolfgang Mückstein for the work of the past eleven months, which he has pursued with his very special character characteristics, namely with sincerity, with honesty, with determination, with great commitment and with great commitment – thanks to Wolfgang Mückstein and also to his team in the cabinet and in the ministry, to all those who have contributed to this work. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] But thanks also go to the President of the Federal Republic, to the Chancellor of Germany and the coalition partner for the smooth and rapid transfer of the office so important at this time – in no way easy time – also thanks for it. People should know this calmly that we are always working together and keeping together in the top institutions and bodies of the Republic in difficult times. – Thank you, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Eleven months are not a long time now, you might think. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There is, however, a very, very tangible record of success, which we have partly reached over the factions, but at least with the government partner and in the health resort at the top of Wolfgang Mückstein. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We know that the care reform is a huge task, but it is - - – thank you for the comment. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is she? Yeah, where is she?]] The care reform will always be something that you can only recognize by many building blocks, and from these a building will be built. A care reform that comes down to us like a big bang and then solves everything will not exist. The first building blocks for this foundation are laid. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Building blocks? It's a construction site!]] It has been invested in a new training system for the first time, at least 50 million euros. Those who act here as experts and call in between will also know how important the establishment of the community class is – there has also been much further progress. This has all happened at this time, as has the psychosocial care, which has been increased with large amounts for the fight against the consequences of the pandemic psychosocial support especially for children and young people. If, and for special reasons, we are still going to discuss and have just heard, we really need to recognize and accept considerable pressures, then it should not be mentioned that for the lower income groups, for the poorer households, we have made two times a cost-effective balance, in which the Ministry of Social Affairs was significantly involved, just as in the increases in minimum pensions far above the average, and that twice in a row. No one would have believed that this would succeed twice in a row. I know that some also criticize this – you can discuss it all. In any case, it has happened in these eleven months – also a thank you and my recognition. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since I had the opportunity to speak here in the house of Waltraud Klasnic the other day, I would also like to mention that she felt this as a great milestone, and that she was not at all sure whether this could be done so quickly, namely a very good-looking teaching of palliative and hospice services through a law of her own own – that is, there is also a big step right at this time. What seems particularly important to me today is not only the participation of the Social Ministry and the Social Minister – that is already important enough – in a campaign against violence against women, but also the Social Ministry – which Wolfgang Mückstein has initiated – plays an essential role in the package against violence against women. You can point this out calmly on that day. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Only as much as 8th. March and 111 years of women's day: The last year was again dramatic as to murders of women. There is now also a separate expression for this: Femizide. We have a high number in Austria – that's all too many violent crimes, that's clear, but it's striking that in Austria, you have to address it openly, it's very common, and you can't do it enough. That often starts before. That is why it is also so important that we call on men themselves to watch, listen, and act when it comes to it. This is, I believe, very well expressed in the current campaign from the Ministry of Health, and we should also be very kind to it ourselves. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, if it's 111 years old, The International Women's Day will retain this legitimate meaning until it finally takes into account equality and equality in all areas of life. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Have you also advertised in Qatar for this?]] To Wolfgang Mückstein, however, it should not be mentioned that the decisive reason for his withdrawal is also that he was faced with a threat, not only to himself, but also to his family, his children. He has expressed it and made it even more clear to us from the Greens. I think this is of such importance that we have to stress this once again – thank the Federal Chancellor, too, that he has already done so. If it comes so far that a health minister should only drive with bulletproof vest in the car, then something is wrong – then something is wrong! That is why we should take this on the occasion, and it should be a reminder to all of us that we are looking at such processes and phenomena and not to say nothing about them – across all party borders. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP, representatives of SPÖ and the Agg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In any case, it is once again an occasion for all of us, at least with those – and these are the most common ones – who are able to talk to each other, who are willing to discuss, not only the political parties, but all the people who are good will that we may succeed. This is certainly another reason to look more closely at cohesion and cohesion, even if the decisions a health minister has to take are difficult. It will always be the case that fundamental considerations are to be taken, which are quite, quite difficult, namely those between health protection and the impairment of individual freedom – this will remain difficult. But I am also quite sure – and now to John Rauch – that we have with him a professional who will master exactly that, with his experience – I don't need to introduce him for long, I believe – with his depth, with his far-sighted and also with his ability to name things clearly. He has already had to fight with many resistances, but she has always mastered all the bravouros. He knows the local policy, the local or the city level, the state policy and the federal policy – after all, he has negotiated the government programme – and that is, I believe, a particularly important feature as a health and social minister, and therefore I am very confident that it will continue well. By the way, Johannes Rauch is also one who can look far beyond the national borders – he has regular contact with the Prime Minister of Baden-Württemberg, and his contacts with the European Union will also help us. His knowledge – from the community level to the level of the European Union – characterizes him, with these qualities he will do well to master his tasks to our satisfaction. In any case: Welcome, Johannes Rauch! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But now on the second issue, on the illegal attack by President Putin – not even by Russia – I would like to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This is actually an attack on international law itself, an attack on democracy, on freedom and on the rule of law. You just have to call it that way again and again. The enemy who really makes up Putin – or exclusively – is not Ukraine, is not even the Nato, but is the life model for which Ukraine has chosen. That's it. The enemy in the neighborhood is an orientation towards a more democratic, freer world. It fears Putin above all, and we must name it! Therefore, not only are the people in Ukraine heroes and heroes, but also those thousands and thousands of thousands who go to the streets in Russia and call them those who are partially locked away – these people also deserve our full respect. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and NEOS]] Putin's on his way to war law, that's what he sees in all his actions. I do not know how long it will take until, with a de facto war law, it also limits the last small freedoms of the citizens. With regard to journalists, it has already happened – that is enormous! –: You can't call war war anymore. I would like to say something about it, with all those who reach us: We must also call war crimes war crimes, even if they are the Russian Federation. We will not be silent here and let ourselves be intimidated – be sure that the Austrian National Council will know this quietly. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and NEOS]] If it is true that Putin has once again assumed that, unfortunately, the European Union – which has often happened enough – or, in that case, the North Atlantic Pact will not react properly, it has not only deceived itself, but with its actions, with its illegal attacks, even the opposite. This gives us hope and confidence – it also depends on it, I agree with the Chancellor completely – that with all the difficulty we have to perceive there, something can succeed. In the General Assembly of the United Nations – I believe it should not be underestimated – three quarters of the UN Member States, that is, more than 140, have massively condemned these operations by means of a resolution and have called on Putin to withdraw. I know now that some will say: This will not scratch him – as would be said in Austria! I still think it's important. It was not clear from the outset how this vote will take place. That is why I should also like to thank the governments of these 140 and more states which have worked in this direction. This is important, at least in the long term, if we go back to strengthening the world order, which is just being shaken, because this one-sided aggression is present. On the other hand, it is not hopeless when many others come together without risking a third world war – you have to name it so dramatically. That is why these votes are more than just a sign. The next signs of closing, which are more than a sign, are the sanctions – we know them. The next package will be prepared, also with the participation of Austria. They work, we've discussed the last thing, I don't want to go into it any further now. [[Abg. Kassinger: What exactly? What concrete? How do they work?]] It's not like that wouldn't create something. On neutrality: It is said in the result of military neutrality and that does not mean any participation in military action on the part of one of the parties. It does not mean, however, that it is not possible to take part without participation, when it is necessary to condemn these illegal attacks by a state of high level to its neighbours. In addition, we participate in sanctions and also in possible peacekeeping measures. It reminds us once again that active neutrality policy is very important. We can go further than many of us suspect, at least by international law, whenever there are UN decisions or Union decisions that support them and give them a foundation. It is therefore very correct and important that neutrality remains, but that we live it the way we want to apply it, and there are more possibilities than some people want. The whole thing – Austria – gives us the opportunity to act as a mediator. We've always said we're bridge builders. I think we should try this again and again – with our special role – within the framework of the European Union. It can also succeed if we adhere to the old tradition of Austrian foreign policy and do not give up and suggest possible economic individual interests. Of course, this honesty must prevail, but Austria has the opportunity and the ability to do something about it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the same way as in the refugee and war-stricken question: Of course, we are making a big contribution again in Austria, which has often been so, I would like to expressly mention it, and is now the same. There is also a gratifying fact: I cannot remember, at any rate, that the European Union, the many Member States it now has, has been as united in refugee issues as it is now. One must also mention positively how Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania participate by providing great help. However, all other Member States will also be required, in part this is already the case: In Austria, the Ministry of the Interior with many institutions, especially with the municipalities and the federal states, but also with private and with aid organisations, is a major step in expanding the capacity we need to accommodate people in Austria. I think we're on a good way. Today I have been able to convince myself at the Wiener Hauptbahnhof, what the ÖBB do about the trains arriving there – thank you very much for that. It will also be organized at the station intermediate quarters for people who do not find a quarter immediately or do not immediately push on a journey, which most do. This is also organized as an example. Thanks to the large aid organizations – at the main station it was the Caritas – and to the ÖBB. We can be proud of Austria and the institutions that work together again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The last point, of course, refers to the dependence of Europe and Austria on fossil energies, especially from Russia. That also concerns us very strongly. I think you have to distinguish two things, I'm completely aware of that: One is that of course it is true that everything that is really climate protection policy – and that should now happen – accelerates the transition of fossil energies, especially from gas, to renewables maximum. At the same time, however, that this is also security policy and geopolitical interest, it is not entirely new, but it has never been presented to us as now, and therefore the answer must be – I know that this is a medium-term, we should have it in the long term – to speed up the transition, the entry and the final switch to renewable energies. So: Climate protection is also a security policy in place. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the short term, it's different, you have to address it honestly. That's why it's so important that we get into the diversification of the delivery destinations on the one hand, so: Where do we first get the gas? And the second, of course, is that in the months that are less consumed, we will also be able to raise the stockpiles. There, I think, are all agreed – I have heard this from the first day of the crisis – that we have to get into the regulation. There has been nothing yet – and therefore also the gas supply law, which is already on its way, with the aim of filling 80 percent of the large storage capacity that we in Austria really have, thank God, over the summer. That is, I think, the right way in this place. And one last thing: Although it looks very, very difficult, I certainly – and I hope that many of you share this – believe that at the end of the day will be stronger than dictatorship and tyranny. Let us not take this confidence and hope! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3964	Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e3985	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Dear Minister of Health and Social Affairs! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Bundeskanzler! Unfortunately, it took a little while for you to get through to clear words regarding neutrality yesterday, but it was right and important that [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] You did that, but that your interlocutor spoke about it very differently yesterday, that is more than remarkable. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is the most important thing now! In Ukraine people die, this is a humanitarian disaster, but that is the most important thing that social democracy...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing has to be said at this point, namely that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, spoke on the weekend that neutrality was imposed on us in 1955. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That alone is a reason to correct a few things, and I would like to read to you a quote: “This draft law is only coming to the vote today because the last foreign soldier has left Austrian soil to clearly state that the decision-making of the legitimate, freely elected Austrian people’s representation is carried out in full independence and freedom.” [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer: Hugo Portisch!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: And the social democracy does that, that is not to endure!]] [[Abg. Scherak: The Russians didn't want to! ...!]] Do you know, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is the source of this quote? – This is from one of your predecessors, ODP Chancellor Julius Raab, from 1955, from a parliamentary speech on the decision-making of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Neutrality of Austria. [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer: Yes, because otherwise he does not...!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Mrs. Colleague, now people are dying! Can we talk about this today?]] I would like to read to you neither a sentence that says: “[...] the Austrian people will not regard future neutrality as a forced commitment nor a spiritual sterilization [...].” – These words are from Bruno Pittermann, then SPÖ-Klubobmann, later SPÖ-chairman, from his speech also on Neutrality 1955. [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer: It's funny that you had to...!]] In full independence and in full freedom, not forced! – Mr Bundeskanzler, Austria decided in 1955 not to join any military alliance. We wanted to be neutral, we wanted our neutrality – and we want it today, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Her statement of the forced neutrality somehow distorts the facts of our Austrian history, and you know what it is: It is a blow to the face of the founding fathers of our Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer: What you are talking about is a blow to the face!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Ah, now it's all...! That's a theater!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You also have the opportunity to correct this today. You would not be the first in the last few weeks from your party to make his statement about Austrian history correct. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's incredible, this speech!]] [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer: Is that a Communist speech? I don't understand!]] At the same time, I also tell you, Federal Chancellor and ladies and gentlemen, the defence of our neutrality is necessary. [[Abg. Wögerer: Well, it's no longer annoyed!]] That is why it is undisputed that the equipment of our federal army needs to be expanded and renewed. It also needs to be adapted to the modern risks of time, and therefore it also needs means to ensure that. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today due to the sixth – the sixth! – Government statement on government reform, the sixth within two years. It is the sixth declaration of government, we have the third chancellor in these two years, the third Minister of Health and Social Affairs, we had twelve ministerial and ministerial changes. These are almost monthly changes of government members, not at some point, but at a time when the biggest health crisis has been taking place for 100 years, a war has been returning to Europe for decades with all the terrible social and economic consequences. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This rapid change of chancellors and ministers in Austria in the last two years, almost on the running band, will become a dangerous one, I would almost say, normality. This normality is dangerous because one can get used to it, but this frequent change is not normal, and the question arises whether it would not be more honest, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, to admit that your coalition does not do anything anymore and that you are therefore unable to deal with these great, these urgent tasks that already exist in Austria – many have already been mentioned in your speeches today. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] Today is International Women's Day. In the area of women's policy, nothing has happened for two years and everything is broken. [[Call: That's not true.]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you do not like to hear this, that is understandable, and I also know that you will not: You will not honestly deal with this balance sheet. They're going to continue as before. You will continue to wrangle, you will continue to argue, whether at the CO2 price, to read today whether the question of refugees from Ukraine: Who can be admitted, who is a refugee, who is not a refugee in Austria?, whether in the necessary measures against the price, whether in the corona measures in recent months, even there has been a dispute. The worst part: All of this you do on the back of the people in Austria, just because you can't admit that your government is at the end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Health and Social Minister, dear Johannes Rauch! You take on a difficult, but a very important task in Austria, and I wish you all the best, like your two predecessors. I wish you a lot of strength and, above all, sustainability in this important role. But I also wish you one thing, and I have already wished your predecessors, namely enforcement; Enforcement within this Federal Government when it comes to protecting human health and doing the right thing – and you can start with it today. You said something very right in your PK on the pandemic yesterday: The most important task in the new office is a serious preparation for autumn. Now, for me and for many, the question is: How do you want to do this? How do you want to prepare yourself serially for autumn? If we look at the current corona situation in Austria, we see the following: We see that since last weekend there have been almost no more rules, in many places no more masks that need to be worn, hardly any effort for vaccination. The number of vaccines has decreased to a minimum in Austria, and soon no free tests, PCR tests, will be available, and therefore no overview and no control over the development of infection in Austria are given. I know, and you know that you have the opportunity to counter it, and I hope you will. Vienna shows how it works and you can take it all over Austria, Minister of Health! [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] However, one point is still important to me, namely one that has always been lacking in your predecessors: social policy. They have been ministers of social affairs since the morning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take things in hand, Minister, there is enough to do! The inflation is as high as never before, the people suffer from it, it has to be helped now, really to prevent poverty in Austria. Take the things in hand, in the care and at the pensions! You know: We have proposed, as a result of the strong inflation, that there is a preferable pension adjustment, because the pensioners in particular suffer even more from this inflation, and life must remain and be quiet in old age. Yes, all of this would be possible, all of this would be necessary, all of this would so urgently need people in Austria now and all of this would help. But for all this, a federal government needs to do that. Only: I do not believe in the desire of this government to actually improve the lives of people in Austria after these two years. You personally, Minister, I wish you everything, all good and much strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4299	Mrs Schwarz has been spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4320	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! [[In the direction of the Federal Chancellor Nehammer, who left the hall:]] I would also like to explain why the Federal Chancellor is leaving the hall: The Kiev mayor has already tried several times to reach him urgently by telephone. [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course!]] [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] If you doubt that, then that would be without any basis for me, and I don't understand the whim at all. We know this 8. March, this year's International Women's Day is characterized by pictures of women who are fleeing together with their children, leaving their homeland, Ukraine, where war has existed for 13 days, who must flee, their husbands, their brothers, their fathers must leave. It is a war that the world is looking at with great concern, which makes us all unscathed; and I would like to say one thing about it: Just as brave as the women who leave their home now, although they do not want to, are also the Russians who demonstrate against the war in their homeland and thus have to fear really bad repression. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] We are currently experiencing the greatest escape movement after the end of World War II with just under two million people on the run. Austria has given its position from the outset, and the Federal Chancellor has made it clear: Austria was neutral, Austria is neutral and Austria will remain neutral. There is no debate on neutrality! We are proud of this Austrian position, and we are also proud that in the past we have always been bridge builders and put on diplomacy. Vienna is home to many international organizations. Vienna has always been a place of dialogue, and the discussion on a question relating to neutrality, which does not arise, is absolutely indispensable. And something else: Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you said that the speaker would have made a completely different statement. That's where I want to correct you: He has not doubted neutrality at all, only so that this is clear. It was about the ability to defend, but not about neutrality. This is just as important to him as all of us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What has always been excellent in Austria has been a great deal of helpfulness. I remember 1956: Hungary, 1968: Czechoslovakia, 1991: Yugoslavia, and the pictures of 2015 are still well remembered to you and us. What happens now is quite clear: Within a few days, whole trucks were packed full of supplies, it was donated. I would ask you at this point: Never forget the appeal of the Austrian Red Cross, donate blood now! I believe that these incredible signs of solidarity and willingness to help in these times are more important than ever. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who, for example, managed to bring out a small, young Eisenstadt family, just before the residence in which she had been accommodated for two weeks, was bombarded from Kiev, with the support of the Hungarian Embassy. This was a convoy that had a journey of 1,600 kilometres for four days; Checkpoints, tire pans, fear – and finally a good end. The family has arrived in Eisenstadt. Thanks to the staff, but also thanks to the employees of the Hungarian Embassy who organized and carried out this convoy. Köszönem szépen! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] Because I also noticed this in the social media: All Austrian journalists who report from the war zone, from Russia and also from Ukraine, deserve our deep respect. Devaluatory remarks in social media are absolutely inevitable and completely inappropriate. In my last speech, I have appealed here for increased protection of journalists, similar to the health staff during the pandemic. I find it – and I would like to join the vice-chanter fully – absolutely crazy that in Austria ministers and ministers need personnel protection that a health minister has to drive around in the car with a ball-proof vest. Where are we going, please? That's something unimaginable in our world! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] It starts with small things like that when I say to me, the journalists need more protection, a colleague says: Well, a bit of what must be done! – Ladies and gentlemen, what does a bit mean? Violence, whether verbal or brutal, is to be rejected in any form in which this violence is expressed! There's nothing to discuss. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] After the appeal for more respect and tolerance, another appeal: Use In connection with the pandemic and the corona measures, please never again the words Forced regime and dictatorship! That's last-class. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I am sorry, Minister of Health, that I will come to you so late as the health speaker of the ÖVP. I would also like to thank you, also on behalf of our social spokesperson and Clubobmann August Wöginger, for your predecessor for the ever-esteeming cooperation at a glance. I look forward to working with you. You said it: The pandemic will still accompany us, we are far from the end, and you know that we have a really thick government programme with very important issues that remain a challenge: the health care of the rural population, the specialist doctor or the specialist general medicine; my personal particular concern, mental health, where we have already launched first things. I believe that we can and want to do a lot together, and I really look forward to working together. Welcome to our circle! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, in order to close the circle on the International Women's Day, I would like to come to a woman whose meaning is still unbroken after so many years: Bertha von Suttner was the first woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize in 1905. At the time when the Nobel Prize was handed over, it called for a lot of things that still have nothing to do with brilliance and genuine expressiveness: Arbitration agreements to resolve conflicts between States by peaceful means, a peace union of all States that would have to reject any attack by one state against another with Community expenditure, and an international institution representing the right as a court on behalf of the peoples. That is why I conclude with the title of the most well-known work of this pacifist, author and first woman who has received a Nobel Peace Prize: “The weapons down!” – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4415	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. – Please, Mr Klubobmann, the floor is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4436	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Austrians! I'd like to start with our federal anthem today. This German anthem contains a passage in its second verse, in which our homeland is called “Vielgeprüchtte Österreich”. “Valid Austria” – well-tested for many centuries, much tested over many generations: by wars against external enemies, by wars inside, by oppression of their own population, by phases of dictatorship, by repression against their own citizens, by social outrages and by poverty. To be honest, I have always been a critic of this government constellation from the beginning, this strange mixture that we want to sell as best from two worlds, but I would not have thought that this federal government, with its effect from 2020 on these historical tests, will provide a whole series of new and current severe tests for this country, to the detriment of our state and to the detriment of our population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I thought ladies and gentlemen from this Federal Government that you were not so forgotten about history. I would have thought you learned more from our story. They, the coalition, have put together the fundamental and freedom rights in this country for two years to ultimately ignore them. You have treated the Sovereign in this country as if it were subjects as if it were your own. [[Call the ÖVP: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Now stop!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have replaced freedom by force, you have split society, you have exerted pressure on people and you have lived exclusion – and all this with the help of billions of euros, where the thick end – that you will also have to pay – and many, many follow-up costs will only come after, and all that I have described, without achieving a single positive effect on the health front that you so-called. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] – This is the summary of your corona policy. Finally – just a few days ago – you have the positioning and, above all, the acceptance and recognition of Austria as an ever-increasingly neutral country in a way that, from my point of view, is disastrous and playful. They played with a blow a capital that has built up generations for decades. There will also be a whole series of follow-up costs – at the political level – which are still inestimable today, and all of this you have done without making the slightest contribution to a peaceful development in Ukraine. – This is the summary of your security policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today there is another declaration of government; I do not know how much it is. It doesn't matter, basically, because it always happens after the same pattern: Once again you believe that you could somehow hide and overtone your catastrophic corona management by presenting a new person, a new face. That's the big plan behind it. You think if you put a new face in the layout, then people have forgotten what you have done to them for two years – up to the absolute perversion in the form of the vaccination obligation. Mr. Health Minister, who is new to you! Now, in connection with Corona, you have only one task: to finally end this vaccination pressure to finally bury him and to throw this damocles sword into the dungy bubble of history – where it belongs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you do so with these personal chocolates and if you insist that you can somehow overthink all of this, then, I tell you, this is an insult to the intelligence of the Austrian population. And it is a disrespect for the Austrian population, if you say here and today that the population does not notice that this unity, so clearly presented here, is nothing but the fear of the electorate that you are pressing for stability, for sense of responsibility and for continuity. This is the real motive and kitt of this coalition – in addition to the fact that you no longer trust each other and meet with hatred. That is the truth that holds this coalition government together, and, [[Abg. Hörl: This is the truth...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have been caught trying to gain only once more time for your escape from responsibility. This is a disrespect for the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Kogler, Vice-Chancellor Kogler, the suit would have resigned for a long time. Please point out to your Federal Chancellor, who is so pleased to speak of attitude, that attitude is to open the way for new elections, because in this country too much has just happened, which not only I but also the people rightly consider to be inexcusable. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] They chose another way: They have decided to continue poldering and to continue by internal and external policies. This is your approach, and so we are constantly in the situation that we have to deal here in Parliament with your damage – and so is today. That's why I'm coming to Ukraine: You know, for us liberals, it is perfectly clear that the military aggression by Russia cannot find any acceptance and is strongly condemned, but I welcome something you always forget: This must also apply to all other military conflicts, in which a great power believes that with its military supremacy it is blessed elsewhere – and in fact leaves only a trace of devastation. I haven't heard from you yet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The weapons must be laid down – immediately! We owe it to the poor civilian population, and we owe it to the soldiers who are heated in this senseless war. There can only be one solution, and this solution must be achieved at the negotiating table and nowhere else. And I also say, as the chairman of the Freedom Party, that I consider it absolutely necessary that we avoid any further escalation, any further turning on this escalation spiral, that we must break this spiral of violence and suffering, of misery and death, of escape and expulsion, instead of further heating it, because the war only knows losers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Get to your knees before Putin! That's your policy!]] Ladies and gentlemen, now I tell you one thing: I believe that we share all these positions – at least I hope you can sign all of what I have said – but if that is the case, then a few questions I would like to ask you. The first is: What did the Federal Chancellor of this Republic do, what did he think when he called our neutrality “compulsory” in the “press hour” of the ORF, where he certainly thought of every word? I have heard this, all of Austria has heard it, and I am afraid that it has been heard in many parts of the world, because in times like this one listens very carefully to what Heads of Government of various countries say. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Since when has the...?]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is getting more exciting! Communist understanding! The new role of...!]] This forced neutrality, ladies and gentlemen – just for memory – is that neutrality of which it is in kind. 1 para. 1 of our State Treaty, and I do not think that this prominent place is chance, means that it is always permanent and that we have declared it out of free space. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: USSR Glorifier!]] In this – quote Nehammer – forced neutrality – quote; Copyright Karl Nehammer, ÖVP, can be said – it is of course the military neutrality of Austria, because everything else he has already erased from the table. Any other and far-reaching interpretation of neutrality is no longer acceptable from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party and this government. I think this is irresponsible, I say to you immediately, because it suggests that these days wars cannot also be waged with economic measures. It is completely abstracted in this strange concept of neutrality, but it seems to be about military neutrality, and this military neutrality, according to Karl Nehammer, is a forced one. Now I ask you, as far as normal language is concerned: When do you call something forced? – Something is called forced if you don't like it. Something is called forced if you want to get rid of it. It's called something forced if you want to throw it off somehow. Then that term makes sense. Look, and there we are at the point. Here we are at the point on which the ÖVP is in truth: Here we are on the point that the ÖVP has believed that in these difficult times of our Republic it is possible to advance its actual approach, namely a NATO accession. There we are at the Pudels Kern, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Nato was once a defense alliance, at the time when the Warsaw Pact was still in place – that was it – but in the meantime it is quite different, it has become a strategic intervention alliance under the command of the United States of America. The Austrian People's Party has believed that it is now possible to use these difficult moments of our homeland to send our sons under American command to all possible fronts on this globe, because some good reason to free a country has still been found on the part of those who play geopolitical games. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli shakes the head and makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Your Mr. Khol has made further progress, your spokesperson has made further progress, and you have only been shaken back when you have noticed: Hoppala, that doesn't matter so well with the Austrian population! Then you have put in the reverse – the next Salto backwards! – and then Karl Nehammer announced: Neutrality remains, the debate is over! – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, which, by the way, no one other than this one, Karl Nehammer himself, has not ended when he declares it to be finished, but it will end if we make a credible neutrality policy in this country and adopt your one-dimensionality. Then the debate will end, but you are the last address in terms of credibility when it comes to this repair work. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Well, the right one is talking! That's what the right one is talking!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next question: I think you have to de-escalize from a neutrality position. Now I ask this Federal Government, I ask the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor: Yes, believe You are all serious that this is de-escaling if your political confidant, Mrs von der Leyen, her sign of EU Commission President, wants to negotiate with Ukraine on accession to the European Union in these days – and then perhaps Moldova and Georgia will do so in their luggage? Do you believe that this is wise and responsible and, above all, de-escaling? I am not talking about the fact that we are dealing with a country with over 40 million people, with an average income for the working people of 260 euros per month, including all the social outrages that this brings. I am only talking about the potential for conflict with Russia, which would bring about the realization of such considerations, and I believe that it is a relevant consideration to ask this question. I'm telling you quite frankly: I think what you and the Leyen are doing is a game with the fire. I think that's a fire risk. There is a danger that the whole European Union and Austria will be taken into this war with it instead of ending this war as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Is Ukraine's status as an EU member or as a NATO country or as an EU member and NATO country worth this from the point of view of Austria? Is it really worth taking this risk, and is it worth it from the European Union's point of view? [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Inconceivable cowardly!]] I'll ask you that. I have my doubts, I don't think so, and you're happy to condemn me for that. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Inconceivable cowardly!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Fig! Fig! Fig!]] I see a peaceful future for Ukraine in a bridge between East and West. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You are coward! It's cowardly and downtrodden!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Spouse of Freedom!]] I see a peaceful future in the function of a neutral link, because that is also what corresponds most closely to the historical development of Ukraine. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: traitors of our values!]] Now I am again, Chancellor Nehammer, in your forced neutrality. Take Austria here! Look! We've done well for this forced neutrality, haven't we? With this imposed neutrality, has Austria not developed perfectly in the last decades, between two blocks? Have we not lived in peace and freedom and generated prosperity you are destroying? [[Abg. Steinacker: Destroys the Federal Chancellor?! Such a false claim!]] This is the result of your forced neutrality. You should also think about this model. If you don't believe it, maybe the name Henry Kissinger will tell you something. Henry Kissinger said in 2014 – and at the time one discussed the Ukraine crisis in the context of the Crimea – To survive, Ukraine must “be no outpost” – it is probably also cowardly, Mr Kissinger, Mrs. Mienl-Reisinger, just as you have accused me of “no-one’s outpost”, neither one’s nor the other. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Is impossible!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You are also cowardly!]] I believe that it is precisely about this survival in peace and freedom for Ukraine, and about survival in peace and freedom for Austria and for the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] See: That would be a neutral position! That would be a neutral position. This would, by the way, be a reasonable position, and it would also be a courageous position, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, simply because I believe that in the meantime, for example, it takes some courage to extend to the European Commission, in the form of Mrs von der Leyen, for example, that it is an act of absolute responsibility to start accession negotiations between Ukraine and the EU now. That's why it's courageous, but I haven't heard from you in this direction, not one syllable. Finally, on the sanctions against the dramatic development of energy prices, fuel and gas prices, which in the meantime have become a luxury item and where a chain reaction will be launched, where the Austrian population will have to pay the bill for your responsibilitylessness: You're probably saying, All right, that's the price you have to pay for it, so that we can defend freedom and human dignity here, and thus we can ward off misery and misery. – I say to you: They pay no price at all, but the Austrian population pays this price. It pays this price, millions of Austrians who can no longer afford their lives now and who are increasingly under pressure in view of the energy prices, the food prices that will follow, the housing costs and so on. You shouldn't be so easy to deal with with your sanctions, but you should question things. Another thing: If you already claim that you are acting on high motives, I ask you: What, then, do you have in the United Arab Emirates and what have you lost in Qatar? These were your new wishes in relation to natural gas today. Yes, have you forgotten that the United Arab Emirates is a very close strategic partner of Russia in this region? They're in touch with the Russians. So you're saying the Russians aren't working, but with the best allies of the Russians in the form of the United Arab Emirates? And did you escape – and there I am at the World Women's Day – that, for example, the Sharia in these United Arab Emirates is a central building block of the legal order? Did all of this get away from you? Did you escape from the Greens that homosexuality is threatened with the death penalty according to the laws of this country that you now call wishful suppliers? And so on and so on, just to mention a few examples. The second wishful supplier of this government, Qatar, is also not much better – the next ally of Russia in this region! Didn't they tell you when you were there that there should be no parties there? So democratic are the rulers. Have you not been told that the Sharia is also a central part of the legal order, that we will find everything when we go from the death penalty down to the extermination? Haven't you been told that a religious withdrawal there is treated as capital crimes? Did they not tell you that domestics in Qatar are not treated as human beings, but as property, like the slaves in the Romans? Didn't they tell you all that? I'm just telling you this because I have to ask the question: These two countries now provide morally clean natural gas? Or how is that? Then: The Russian natural gas is not morally clean! That from Qatar? That from the United Arab Emirates? Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is hypocrisy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, in conclusion, my call: Stop sniffing, stop making a policy that threatens our homeland Austria and our people and at the same time does not benefit Ukraine because it does not offer it a serious and serious perspective! In three words, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Step back – and take the rest of the government right away!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4812	Klubobfrau Sigrid Maurer has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4834	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! We from politics, here in Parliament, are mostly dealing with internal policy issues, economic policy, social policy issues, social issues, of course also foreign policy issues and European policy issues, but none of us would have thought that in 2022 we should be dealing with a war on European soil, a war taking place a few hundred kilometers away. All of us are persecuting the latest news from Ukraine that reaches us, the pictures, the videos, the personal reports in social media, the people in the air protection bunkers, the subway stations that have been converted for this purpose. The extent of destruction and suffering is unimaginable: Babies born in these bunkers, people fleeing, people injured, people killed. It's unbearable. Today, International Women's Day, and as mentioned and addressed by my previous speakers, women are particularly affected by the horrors of the war. The responsibility for this attack war has a person, a man, Vladimir Putin – a man who pursues his interests without regard to loss and human life. This war of attack is not just a breach of international law, this war is an attack on European values – the European values for which people in Ukraine are willing to resist bitterly. Resistance, which the Russian President obviously did not expect to oppose, which also in his own country, to a far greater extent than he expected, and which he tried to defeat with absolute brutality. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Koza.]] All of Europe is resisting and will continue to resist in a closed state, which has not yet existed, by putting Putin's regimes, as hard and as consistently as it can be, in the barriers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] For this we know the population behind us. In Austria, throughout Europe, people around the world demonstrate solidarity for Ukraine. The Austrian Federal Government, the European Union are doing everything to support Ukraine to the best possible extent to support refugees and neighbouring countries. One thing must have become clear in this context, including those who did not want to realize it so far, namely that the dependence on the Russian gas is a danger to our freedom. It makes us vulnerable, it makes us play ball for Russian interests, and that we are in this dependence is a failure of policy of the past 15, 20 years. It is terrifying to read, for example, in an interview with the former head of OMV, how attempts to reduce or even prevent this dependence have even been actively suppressed. What has been missed over the past 15 years, namely to drive the exit of oil and gas massively, now is to ensure Leonore Wiessler. I am very glad that German Chancellor Karl Nehammer and the coalition partner fully share this concern and we work together to create this exit. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Every windwheel we build means independence, every host flock we exchange, means more freedom. Yes, we will have to look for alternatives to gas, even in countries that we do not like, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, because what has been abandoned in 20 years of politics cannot be picked up by a new Minister of Energy in three months. Yes, that will cost, and yes, the sharp sanctions on Russia will cost. But the freedom, sovereignty and the right of life of people in Ukraine must not have a price tag, and our solidarity is certain to them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to come to the second part of this declaration of government and find a few words on it. Johannes Rauch said it himself in his press conference: Against the background of a brutal attack war on European soil, the importance of a change of ministers is fading. At the same time, the major health and social challenges do not await. I would like to expressly thank Wolfgang Mückstein for his work at this point, for his courage to take over this difficult office, for his commitment and the achievements – it has already been mentioned, for example, the expansion of psychological care or the hospice and palliative medicine – but also for his consistent commitment to violence against women. Thank you, Wolfgang! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today we now welcome our new social and health ministers in the middle of Johannes Rauch. Dear John, I am delighted that you are ready to take over this office and do so with great joy. We know you as sensible, as experienced, as a prudent politician, as someone to whom the common good and the keen view of injustices and social outrages are central concern. Even from the small Vorarlberg, you always had the big picture in mind, and I am glad that you will bring this far-sighted view into our federal government. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] The challenges are undoubtedly considerable. The pandemic is not over, our claim must be to be best prepared for the next autumn and winter. But other topics, such as the situation of the caregivers or those of the persons to be cared for, must also take an intensive look at us over the next few months. The place you take over, dear John, offers a lot of room for design: What can we do for consumers, for animal welfare?, but especially: How can we improve the situation of people with disabilities? I'm sure you're going to deliver a lot of good answers, and I know you're working hard, even if the resistance should rain from one federal country or another. I have full confidence that you will master your business well, and I promise you full support from my side and from the Green Parliament Club. Thank you and welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4949	Club-wife Meinl-Reisinger is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e4970	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. New Minister for Health and Social Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! It is a bit difficult to speak today, because we have to talk about a lot, of course about government reform, on the one hand, and on the other hand I would have liked to pay more attention to the International Women's Day, but, of course, for us too, the war in Ukraine is in the foreground, and this I will devote to the main part of my speech. However, I would like to start by welcoming you, Mr Minister, here in the House. I also wish your predecessor Wolfgang Mückstein all the best in person. I was very moved by what he said about the hostilities in politics. It's not like we don't get along with that, like the mood and the tone are getting rougher and rougher. Especially on the International Women's Day, where we also talk about violence against women, we need to talk about the fact that violence always starts first with verbal violence and that border crossings have long since taken place in our country. Something we don't want is that verbal violence is taking place in itself against politics or against politicians – this is unbearable. I think we should all work together to descale. I really want to thank him everything, to wish him all the best, and also to thank him. We were not always of the opinion that we did not always find it happy how he acted. However, I think that everyone, and I have said this many times, should be grateful to him for putting himself in the service of our country and our community and people in our country. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] However, please allow me to say – and I have clearly said so – that I find it more than unfortunate that there is now, especially in a pandemic, the third Minister of Health. It is more than unfortunate what a picture of an unstable state the Austrian Federal Government not only now gives off, but how it actually wanders around. Also, the war in Ukraine and the very clear and good rhetoric in part must not conceal the fact that nothing was effectively accomplished on major tasks. It is to be hoped, therefore, that the great tasks ahead of us, which also need a real restart, will now bring in another swing, another energy, another action force and also another leadership. I would like to come to the war in Ukraine and say something about it. I was in Ukraine yesterday. That's what happened. It wasn't planned that way. I wanted to go to the Slovak-Ukrainian border to accompany an auxiliary transport that our employees put on their feet in a really great way within a week; it became a small truck with a large trailer and more than 10,000 euros of donations with which medicines and food were bought. Because of confusion, where our truck landed, it happened that we – with the support of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs – were actually in Ukraine, namely, around the Ushhorod area. We are from Slovakia to Ukraine to Ushhorod and then have left Ukraine again via Tschop – that is at the Hungarian border. We also had the opportunity to meet two Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and I would therefore also like to thank you at this point. These two, which we met together with administrative officials and military officers, but above all also the volunteers we have experienced in a logistics centre that was in the process, not only our transport, but a lot of what is currently coming from Austria, so to speak, to continue working on trucks or otherwise to bring them to the east of Ukraine, have asked us to express their heartfelt thanks to the Austrian Parliament and to the Austrian people for the great support that has been given in recent days. Yes, they need certain things, such as helmets, protective vests, knee protectors, medications, quite massive, but they also say quite openly that they take everything and are happy about everything that comes. What I would also like to say to you is that, in the area of Transcarpathia, about 100 000 displaced people, as they call it, are more persistent in Poland, but also there tens of thousands are streaming across the border, so to speak, a little guided by a border with the car, at the other border on foot. These are streams of people: so many women with small children – so many small children! – so many older women, so many women and so many small children who walk across the border with a backpack and with a small children's backpack, young women who look like they're just coming out of a lecture hall in Vienna, and who are now just walking out of eastern Ukraine on their way to the border – hopefully, because it's not certain that humanitarian corridors, like now for example on the big question of Mariupol, are actually working. It is very important that we make it clear here that, as Austria, we also stand together with the European Union and do what is necessary, namely to make clear to the aggressor, who has initiated this war of attack: This is Vladimir Putin and his official Russia! [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also quite clear that people in Ukraine and, above all, the representatives of the Parliament there wish for one thing: a flight ban zone. But we know what that would mean, namely, the entry of Western powers, in some cases the NATO into this war, and that would be a step that would have a very far-reaching consequence. That is why I think it is necessary to turn uncompromisingly on all the other screws. And yes, I'll stick with it. In my opinion, it is also cowardice or another in-the-knee thing before Putin that I do not clearly confess to one side, namely freedom, peace, democracy, human rights. This, of course, also means economic sanctions. It has been mentioned: Economic sanctions are those in which Austria is also involved, and I am convinced that a calculation has not been made. I said here a few days ago, when you remember that Putin, of course, also has a calculation, namely that the European Union may not act closed. That's what she's doing! She's been doing that again for a long time. It is a conclusion, particularly on the issue of economic sanctions. The question I ask myself, however, also with regard to the question of what further steps can be taken: What are we waiting for? I believe that Europe must decide these sanctions together, and I hear that there will be more – but what are the moments when one says that it is at the moment for another sanctions step? – If Kiev was laid in the same way as Charkiw in the rubble and ashes? - I think that's too late. That's clearly too late! If you have cards in your hand and you are ready to take another step in Europe, I am not quite clear what you are waiting for – no matter what you may do – because the human rights violations, the war crimes are taking place now! Charkiv has been laid in rubble and ashes. I was also reported by Bombardements – you can read it all anyway – about a hospital in Kiev, that is, the one where Ukraine’s largest childoncology is housed – that has been bombarded! So if there are further sanctions, then I believe that now is the right time for this, of course quite clearly also on the question of what this means in relation to the dependence on gas and oil and a possible import stop. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] But I would like to say something at this point, because this debate has now been very passionate or not passionate: When, if not now, at a time when war is happening again in Europe, on European soil, we see clearly what nativity the West and Europe have shown, especially in dealing with Vladimir Putin? I would even like to go one step further and talk about the fact that it is not only naïve, but also a terrible policy of appeasement, and Austria is not excluded from this appease policy, of which well-known and high-ranking politicians in Austria are not excluded – since I do not have to go so far as to remind myself that anyone who has actually been kneeling before Vladimir Putin did. [[Deputies Hauser and Stefan:Haselsteiner!]] This naïveness and this appease policy may have blinded us to what was already evident in 2014: namely, that it is not about putting some territorial claims in Crimea, but that further steps are planned. [[Abg. Stefan: Hazelsteiner! He's building everything in the east! He must have best contacts!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] I would also like to say the following to all those who say: Yeah, it's the Nato, wouldn't have the Nato! – It is not the NATO that has committed a breach of international law, it is quite clear Putin, who has removed the Budapest Memorandum with a breath and thus committed the international breach. I think that just today is the time for us, I hope, to experience a very strange lesson in history, from the FPÖ, too; They are obviously not only Russian understandrs, but they are also Soviet understandings, and this has been a remarkable volt, which I have come to know today -, solidified in the Western community of values of freedom, democracy and human rights also talk about an actionable Europe, a truly capable Europe, also independent of the USA. [[Abg. Kassinger: Where? Where? Oh, that's great!]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] I know, and I read all the articles that it would be much easier to go over NATO and so on, but I remember that the President-in-Office of Donald Trump has just shown us that we Europeans must finally put themselves on the back feet and have to take care of our affairs. To take care of our own affairs means to be sovereign, to be operational and, of course, to be defensive, against all those who question exactly this way, as we want to live, this Western way of living, this – I say quite consciously – of living in European ways, with the eco-social market economy, not only questioning, but currently shooting with missiles and bombs. Now the time has come for many dusted dogmas to be thrown overboard, in the statement on which side one has to stand here, to have clarity – not somehow a false Putintümelei, Russiatümelei, perhaps out of an American critique – may also be entitled to make it clear, but to take a clear position and work together with our European partners to ensure that we ensure an actionable, a defensive Europe in the future. I would expect this – also about honesty and intellectual political discourse in Austria. It is a pity that there is obviously no such thing as this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5065	Mr Lopatka has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5086	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Welcome to the new Minister of Health here in Vienna, here in the National Council! We wish you a good cooperation with us, as we had it with your predecessors! It has been addressed by SPÖ chairmen the length of the term of office – by the way, it was shorter in office than the Minister of Health criticised by it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You don't have it in your hands how long you're Minister of Health. - So much for it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 24. February 2022 has put an end to a period of time in Europe, and many have not considered it possible. It's a day we're like 9/11, like the 11. September 2001, will be remembered. In the middle of Europe – and we must never forget that – we have war through this invasion of Russia. A cruel war broke out. He's only 13 days old, and it's already so much misery, there's a need to complain of death victims. In these dramatic days, however, there has also been something positive for me: I have not seen the European Union so united and strengthened for a long time, even at parliamentary level. We were more than 100 Members from more than 30 countries last week in Paris at a meeting of the European Committees. And this mood there has already shown that it is an argument that the Ukrainians are fighting with a dictatorship for the free West, for us, and this war has only been triggered by dictatorship, only by the Russian side. This is quite clear here and not to relativize how the clubman of the Freedom Party keeps trying to do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens, as well as on Members of NEOS.]] What I think is so positive for the European Union: Poland and Hungary have often been rightly criticized. Only what Poland and Hungary are now doing will bring them closer to the centre of the European Union. It is overwhelming – more than 1.2 million refugees are now in Poland – what the population in Poland is willing to take on. This is a model for Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yesterday we were with some colleagues in Slovakia – this is also to be called. Slovakia, actually a small country in the European Union, is well prepared. Furthermore, what is being done in Moldova – not yet in the European Union – and also by the Romanians is also to be mentioned. They are not examples for us in many other areas, but what is being done is exemplary. What we also notice is that many things are inconvenient. On the one hand, there is more and more right in us who admire the courage and will of the Ukrainian people to use their own lives for freedom as well. On the other hand, of course, at the same time among the population, the grief is increasing that so many people, totally innocent people, from the civilian population and their lives pay for it. As far as the two presidents are concerned – and they are very crucial – too: Respect on the one hand for Volodymyr Selenskyj. This respect grows. People see with what courage he is at the head of Ukraine. On the other hand, more and more people are becoming aware of how long Vladimir Putin has been pursuing his humane policy, which, of course, has now reached a negative peak. He – and only he – has the death of thousands and the escape – according to figures of today from the UNHCR – of more than 2 million people. Mr Meinl-Reisinger said: Half of them are children. In my opinion, that alone deserves an apprehension by the State community. In my opinion, the war crimes and the crimes against humanity that are now happening in Ukraine must also have a legal replay. This is not in the centre now, but it should not be forgotten, because we have more and more the right to break through on these issues worldwide. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Order murders, poisonings, arrests of oppositionists, the occupation of Crimea, the war in Donetsk and Luhansk – I too have criticized all of this, the European Union has slightly sanctioned it, but really the eyes have only been opened to me these days. This desperate courage of Ukrainians and Ukrainians has led us to see that we in the European Union too must be more prepared to fight for our freedom. Russia is isolated worldwide. That's what we need to see. Only four of the 193 members voted in the UN General Assembly with Russia. Who are the friends of Russia? – Klubobmann Kickl, you know, you know her: Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea and Syria. Only these four states voted in the General Assembly with Russia, more than 140 against. However, you, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, are returning today, the Nato are teasing, criticizing the clear attitude of the European Union and the President of the Commission. Yeah, what do you want? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Do you want a weak, one-of-a-kind EU? Do you want a free West that is not protected by NATO? [[Abg. Hauser: You need to watch out for this!]] What do you want? Tell us! [[Abg. Stefan: We do not want accession negotiations now! Do you want accession negotiations?]] Do you want to deliver us systems like Putin's? Is that your concept? Then we'd like to leave you alone, sitting alone like you're sitting here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Should Ukraine become a member? Yes or no?]] Thank God all the other political groups here in the house and the community of states are far away from your attitude! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] What we need is a sustainability of the European Union when it comes to sanctions that will also hurt us. [[Call the FPÖ:Worscht, right?]] What we need is a rethinking on energy supply, as has already been mentioned by German Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors. What we need is a commitment to a strong Austrian security and defence policy, as Chancellor Nehammer said here today. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That too will... not distract!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can conclude and say what is most important to me in these days: That is that our community of states does not tire out daily by President Putin – and only he has it in his hand, he alone – to demand an end to this war, an end to the killing of innocent people. He has to return to the negotiating table. I can only conclude by saying what courageous women and men in Moscow, in Saint Petersburg, in other cities in Russia: President Putin, end this war!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5236	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5257	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Faithful spectators, who like to follow Parliament's debates, have certainly already learned that the relationship between Herbert Kickl and Karl Nehammer is a very, very special one and they are always very intense in their discussions. This may also be due to the common past in the Ministry of the Interior. Since Herbert Kickl quoted Chinese philosopher Sunzi at the last session, Karl Nehammer thought about himself, he must also start with a quote today, with a wisdom from Karl Nehammer. This wisdom is: Political sayings are something different from reality! He may have repeated it so intense and mantra for himself that he said: Because reality in Austria is a very, very difficult one for the people, for the population, he does not even talk about the work of the Federal Government, because it is actually unpleasant and he does not even want to touch it. He himself notes that the Federal Government is in truth overwhelmed by crisis management in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] He then went to the field of foreign policy. Many points can be shared and discussed together. He just forgot to tell Werner Kogler his wisdom – that political sayings are something other than reality. And Werner Kogler has had the pleasure today that he was, as it were, the beautiful speaker of the Federal Government, the only one who has still sacrificed and tried to explain what this Federal Government has not done in the last two years. The tension was when he then tried to say openly how good the cooperation of the members of the government is, how well the cooperation in the Federal Government works. This is indeed remarkable on a day when we praise a new Minister of Health, who is the successor of two people, both of whom have been disassembled by the ÖVP within not even a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember: Federal Minister Anschober is located in the hospital with a weakness attack, as it has gone on, since it has begun to assemble top officials from the Ministry of Health. There were brutal attacks from the ÖVP, and when he was gone, Minister Mückstein was very active here in Parliament – at the time still in gymnastics – and he said he really wanted to take over the central coordination in the field of corona crisis management. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It only lasted a few weeks, then was the first one that brought him up, Elisabeth Köstinger, and those who had let him down were the Greens. The Greens – Sigrid Maurer, Werner Kogler – were then those who have looked at each other wordlessly twice in a row, as ÖVP hopes its own Minister of Health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this is the tragic fact that the Greens are in truth bubbling just as much before the ÖVP as the liberals in front of Russia. This is the only parallel we have noticed today in the speeches. That's why I personally wish the new Minister of Health everything, everything good at work. Our support, if you want to bring something forward, you will definitely have. Only with regard to your own rows, once it becomes brilliant, can you be quite sure: In any case, courage does not choose green – in order to describe it this way – the propriety so and so no longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to focus on what Werner Kogler then said when he claimed how it went on. That was white cock, white cock for the people in Austria, for hundreds of thousands of caregivers, for the people who are there in hospitals day and night for us when Werner Kogler told us what not everything went on in the care. Werner Kogler is not here now, I'm just allowed to ask him to go to a nursing home or hospital at some point and tell the fairy tales there what he didn't do in the area. He's right, it won't go from day to day, and it won't fall the miracle reform from heaven, but one thing we all know: But nothing will go on at the green snail pace. We all know this together, so it would be very urgent at the time when the Federal Government is also doing its work. Unfortunately, this is a government that is not optimally positioned. We have experienced it in the Corona crisis management, where a lot of problems are waiting for us, we now notice it at the price of the price, if Elisabeth Köstinger is not only responsible for gastronomy, but has also been described as a minister of raw materials in the media. It is, as so often in the government, unfortunately always too late. Elisabeth Köstinger has forgotten that in Austria the gas storage systems are almost empty, that we are final light throughout Europe. Now – sometime, much too late – she has come up for a photo appointment to Abu Dhabi and is trying to fix what she has actually broken in this area. I do not want to address the other members of the government, a Foreign Minister Schallenberg, who has literally claimed: We will measure the Taliban by its actions, perhaps they have become better now! – In truth, you are missing the words anyway. What else do you want to tell us about this government? Mrs Bundesminister Raab, I think, is a pilot project for unconditional basic income anyway. To this day, no one knows what it is doing in the Federal Government. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you can submit a job description. I may ask, precisely because the times are serious and great tasks await us all: We have now found out that under Karl Nehammer the political apparatus in Austria has become the most expensive political apparatus of all time. [[Abg. Hanger: If you have nothing to say, sit down!]] There have never been so many people working in the political cabinets in the history of Austria. There's been a change of color. Historically, there have never been so many people in the political apparatus. [[Call to the ÖVP: Most employees have the head of state in Burgenland, and this one is known to come from social democracy!]] That is why it would be urgently necessary – obviously money does not matter – that you really work for the population. If you care for your ÖVP party friends on the one hand, it would also be time for you to think about the population – the key to being expensive. There are many, many people who would wait urgently for answers from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5379	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5401	Madam President. Minister and Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can bring you back to reality from the fairy tale hour that Mr Kucher has just mentioned, and at the same time the SPÖ can diagnose collective amnesia. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] It is already impressive and time and again amazing to hear what trouble situations you are describing here, while you always forget to mention that you have been a Chancellor's party for decades. Why didn't you solve these problems? Why not? Let's do it now. All right, let's do this! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today 8. March, today's International Women's Day is overshadowed by two world events. On the one hand, this is a global pandemic that has still not been completely overcome, and on the other hand, a brutal war that Russia is leading against Ukraine. For two years, media have been reporting in great detail on gender-specific effects that the Corona pandemic has had on women, and also our discussion here in the House has been with us for a long time. As diverse as these effects on women were, the measures that we have taken together as a federal government were as diverse. Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner is not here right now – she asked for it, I like to tell her in the quick passage: Where women were particularly affected, we have very decisively opposed them. In the fight against corona-related unemployment, we have launched a 700 million euro labour market foundation with a very clear, decided priority on women's policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have corrected a turquoise-blue mistake and once again made sure that 50 percent of the AMS funds are spent on women. We have made more money for the unemployed from the anti-social plans for reducing unemployment benefit, we have increased the minimum pensions, we have increased emergency aid – all these are important measures for social security, in particular for women, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us also look at the protection of violence: For years, anti-violence organisations have demanded more money for their important work, but for ten years the past government has not been interested: ten years of SPÖ-led governments, SPÖ Women's Ministers – 10 million euros. The turquoise-blue government has even cut short. We have increased the women's budget, from which central measures in the field of violence are financed, for the third time in a row from EUR 10 million to EUR 18.4 million, and in addition we have created a package of 246 million for the protection of violence. In addition! 10 years – 10 million. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With violence prevention projects such as the campaign Man's talks to or also with the financing of the project Stop – districts without partner force, Federal Minister Wolfgang Mückstein has implemented important measures, and for his really great commitment to the fight against violence against women I would like to thank him once again. You, Federal Minister of Smoking, I would like to welcome you here in the House. I am looking forward to working with you and I know with you another ally on the government bank when it comes to social security for women, especially single parents, on women's health issues and even when it comes to the further fight against violence against women. We will continue to fight this together. I am looking forward to working with you and also to giving you today a five-party proposal as a backwind aimed at strengthening women's health. How male violence becomes a male war shows a look into Ukraine. For the first time since the Yugoslavian wars in the 1990s, our continent has been shaken by a war of international law, which is led by Russia. There is no reason for this war, there is no explanation for this war. A single man, Vladimir Putin, has decided that his personal claim of power is more important than the sovereignty of Ukraine, more important than the foundations of modern democracy, more important than human life. According to UN data, at least 351 Ukrainian civilians have been killed so far, and the number of darkers is of course much higher. Almost two million Ukrainians have already fled, most of them women and children, as men of defence are no longer allowed to leave. And for decades, international organisations have been drawing attention to the particularly dangerous situation of refugees women. Even now there are reports of NGOs about human trafficking who want to take away and tow refugee women at the borders. We are really facing a fire-threatening situation that could lead many vulnerable women to modern slavery and also to forced prostitution. We know from past wars that gender-specific war crimes such as rapes of women are part of the warfare. In the present war situation, the World Women's Day is an important opportunity to resist these abuses decisively and to prevent the need for protection from being exploited in a large way. The first, an important step is the EU directive on the temporary protection of refugees from Ukraine, which entered into force yesterday, but we have to start earlier in order to protect refugee women from male violence. This requires safe escape routes for women and girls, as well as targeted humanitarian aid on the ground, on the borders to help. And Austria is helping, for example, with 17.5 million euros from the foreign disaster fund, which goes to Unicef, UNHCR and also to Austrian NGOs that are truly providing humanitarian aid in Ukraine on site. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that today, on the International Women's Day, we are giving a strong signal as an Austrian Parliament, with a request made jointly by the women's representatives of four parties represented in Parliament, with which we call on the Federal Government to work in both the European and the international contexts for the faster and more efficient assistance of refugee women and children. I very much regret that the FPÖ did not want to support this contribution because it could not join the word attack war. I'm very sorry. In conclusion: My respect applies to all those who go to the streets in Russia against Putin's illegal war, risk being arrested, perhaps risk their lives. And my heart and my thoughts are with people in Ukraine today and with all those who have already fled or are on the run.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5512	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5533	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Yes, my speaking time is only 5 minutes, of course it is very, very little, and that is why I try to take a short look and make some clarifications. First – and that is what I say as a foreign-political speaker of the Freedom Party –: Of course, we strongly condemn a war, this war that is taking place on European soil, which brings much suffering to Europeans; no question at all. Of course, we are committed to this and will also actively participate in providing humanitarian aid, according to our possibilities – and they are great – but taking into account that first of all the immediate neighbours are helping and, of course, we are also helping, just as we have done so to Czechoslovakia, in the Hungarian crisis and so on. Klubobmann Kickl has already mentioned it, and I would like to address three points: the topic of neutrality, your somewhat peculiar relationship to neutrality, the sanctions that Mr Vice-Chancellor says they work – I do not see what is working there, at least nothing in the sense of Europe’s interests – and the wave of inflation and energy policy, that is, your roses in the United Arab Emirates and in Qatar, which Klubobmann Kickl has already mentioned. Of course, a war occurs in a number of dimensions today: as the pitiful physical war we have, but of course also as an economic war. Prominent authors call what is happening there an economic war. There is also a media war and there is war in the cyber world. In the case of neutrality, it is even in the physical! Mr Bundeskanzler, to send war equipment, 10,000 helmets and scatter protection vests, this is somehow not the case with the concept of neutrality, and there we are with the military component. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And not at all what you do in the economic war: They throw themselves to one side, namely to the side of those who cause the sanctions or implement the sanctions. Mr Vice-Chancellor said they were acting. I'd have a request: Explain to me where they work! I think they are already, but not in the direction we want, but they damage the Austrian economy, the European economy, dramatically and massively. They cause unemployment, they cause a cost explosion under which all citizens suffer have, and they do not cause any change in behaviour in Putin and the Russians – if this is the aim, at least it is not perceptible to me. If the sanctions result in something, then the opposite is what we, as Europeans, do not want to see the interests of Europe: Putin turns away from Europe, which, in our view, is an insanity, he turns to China, he turns to India, he turns to Iran and so on. There are now new alliances being promoted, completely to the detriment of Europe. We are spectators and passengers and we have the damage – but Mr Vice-Chancellor will certainly explain to me at times what the positive effects of these sanctions are. I conclude with the field of energy policy: That's where we pay the bill. Now emergency measures are being taken, this and that – you tell us what you are going to do; apart from that, if you look at the government's performance in recent years, you can say quite: I hear the message, I alone lack faith! Let's see what you've done in the last 20 years, because that's on the table: They have made an energy policy that is completely unwise, out of the interest of the European and Austrian economies. That's completely overlaid. We liberals have always said: Energy change yes, but please with measure and objective, we do not forget the security of supply, the economy and the practicability. With your envelopment of all fossil energy sources, with the envelopment of the coal and the nuclear power and so on, you deal with it grossly negligently. And if you claim that all of this can be replaced with renewable energy, I'll only tell you two numbers: The Republic of Austria needs 300 terawatt hours of energy, which is still mass oil imports and gas imports, and 140 terawatt hours of gas. I call you a second number: How much do all windwheels and all photovoltaic systems produce together throughout Austria, how much is that combined? – 8 terawatt hours! [[Calls to the Greens.]] And create with your century law You're an extension of 20 terawatt hours, then we're at 30 terawatt hours, that's a tenth of the need. So please don't tell us, we can use the windwheels to meet our energy needs, because that's just beyond any reality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I conclude: Who represents the interests of Europe in this conflict? – I do not feel that this is the European Commission. Who represents the interests of the Republic of Austria in this conflict? – I don’t feel that’s the federal government. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I believe that there is total failure. There is a policy of interest for those who benefit from it, who have strategic interest in this conflict on European soil, namely the United States of America. In addition to the topic of willingness to talk, Putin does not talk to anyone: I've let you find out now. Joe Biden doesn't talk to Putin in principle – so you can't blame Putin. This would be the most important thing for you to put together and talk to each other and listen once. They do exactly the opposite in the media war: There everything is declared a standard propaganda, and you will now – we will not, we will be against it – decide a law by which you will ban the evil transmitters – Russia Today; that is all just propaganda. Please, this is not a solution, it does not contribute to the solution, nor does it mean that Ukraine will join the EU – is NATO. Please, you have to take note of that. Nor would the Americans be happy if China, Russia or a military alliance were to station its missiles in northern Mexico. I don't want to defend anyone now, but you have to show solutions there, and you can't go into a conversation with demands that are being articulated as unacceptable from the front; that's not how it works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] That means pouring oil into the fire, that's what you're doing, pouring sanctions, oil into the fire, delivering weapons into Ukraine, guessing people to get Molotov cocktails – that's international insanity, that's compatriots. This is not a responsible solution-oriented policy! I haven't heard a single solution from you yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5633	Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, this is a very emotional debate, which we are right to hold here today. I have not now given any calls for orders to the last speakers, but I would ask you, however, to be moderate in terms of expression in the course of the debate. Neither “amnesia ” nor “full sense of deception” are ways of expressing ourselves here in the House. That's why I'd ask you. Now Mr. Federal Minister Johannes Rauchzu has spoken. – Mr Federal Minister, I too would like to welcome you to the House and now give the floor to you. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5660	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, seers! I know, and this is also appropriate, that there are in times like these more important and serious questions and problems than the change in the Federal Government – I do not want to talk about it in small terms – and I would like to refer to the statements by the Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor, who – as well as Members – have pointed out very strongly what is going on in these days. If I stand before you here, the National Council, the High House, then I do the first thing with deep respect for this House, in front of democracy, and believe that we should also recognise the value of parliamentaryism, democracy, legislation on the basis of the Constitution, and see how quickly this can be eliminated. And in this spirit, I am very glad to be standing here before you, the Parliament, also in the appropriate humility, I say that. I am looking forward to working together and I also thank you for this kind to friendly, critical recording that I have found here. Thank you very much! [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Now I already know that you – perhaps rightly – also expect me to make concrete statements in terms of content. You have a certain expectation – as you have said – of the Third Minister of Health in the pandemic, and of course I have the priority of ensuring health; but, as I say the second, I am not just health, I am also a social minister, and I will come back to that. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now I know that there has been a great deal of debate in this House and outside of the population about the access to this pandemic fight, and that there has been a great dispute about it, which is now the right measures, which is appropriate, which is not appropriate, which is a too strong an intervention in the rights of freedom of every individual and which is not. I know this, I perceive it, and I still seek to maintain this dialogue with mutual respect, because I already believe that we should not allow it to be divided with words where democratic dialogue is appropriate. [[Abg. Belakovich: You must tell the Federal Chancellor!]] What is particularly important to me, as future Minister of Social Affairs, to say: I came to the house and then I saw the gallery of social ministers who were, so to speak, my predecessors. There is also respect and reverence for this, I say, because there are names like Grete Rehor, Dallinger, Hostasch, all of whom have made their contribution, that we are living in Austria today: in a social state that envys us Europe, in balance, balance and balance, which are looking for the same in Europe, and I would like to join it. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Some previous speakers have already addressed the wishes, demands, legitimate demands, including me as future Minister for Health and Social Affairs. Care has rightly been referred to as one of those areas in which there has been a massive need for action for years, in which for years also the actors there have called for improvements – and yes: I know. I also know the conditions under which people in care have worked now, in the last years of the pandemic. I also know that it was women in particular – the World Women's Day was not just called for that reason – I know what has been done there. In any event, my aim is to get the necessary relief measures on the way there quickly. I know that has already said and promised several things before me. The fact that this has not yet progressed so rapidly is not only a decisive factor in the Federal Government's area, because responsibilities in care, in which implementation is crucial, are also the federal states. It will be my job to get the dialogue with the federal states so close – difficult enough – that there is something to do there, but I would like to do so on this occasion: simply thank all those who work in this area for their invaluable work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The second important point is the need for care. There are already substantial building blocks in preparation. I have already found this in a first quick overview in the department, and you can be sure that there will also be one of my priorities. In social terms, I can point to my professional past, as I say, because my heart is also very strong at home. I tell you, as Minister of Health and Social Affairs, it will be up to me – and also to us as the Federal Government – to correct the social consequences of the pandemic, and these social consequences are omnipresent. The pandemic should not lead to poverty spreading further that social injustice is increasing, but rather it must lead, quite the contrary, to accentuating it in order to dispel it. This is what people rightly expect, and it is a matter of ensuring social cohesion and peace in the long term, the primary task of a Minister of Health and Social Affairs, to pay attention to it. Only one example is mentioned: We all know – you all know – how the costs of living in Austria have developed. I come from a federal country where this is particularly dramatic, where we face loose 10 percent increase rates, which means that people often have to spend more than half of their income for rent. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, because you rule there!]] It's also World Women's Day today. Unfortunately, we still need him – that's what I'm saying. It should also be mentioned that – and that has already brought Wolfgang Mückstein to the fore – violence protection is a very special concern, because I simply believe that it is unacceptable that we in this country, as far as the number of femicides is concerned, are constantly in the forefront in Europe. This must not become normal and must be stopped together. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] I have already been confronted with a demonstration of animal welfare at the Angelobung. I know the concerns in this area. I know how important they are. I also know that there is a need to find a balance and to conduct the discourse with my colleague at the Intergovernmental Bank Köstinger. I was long enough agricultural speakers in Vorarlberger Landtag to know where the pressure points and pain points are located. But at any rate, to go a little further where it concerns animal welfare, animal transport, full-column soils, that would be my claim I want to take care of. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Now to fight pandemic: It's going to be Of course you are interested: How am I going to prepare myself – or us – for the best possible autumn? – I am saying this because I am not one of those who say: The pandemic is over! – I would warn against it urgently. I would like to choose access: as many measures as necessary, and as few as possible. That is to say, to keep this balance and this balance and to regain the acceptance of people far back. This is due to the length of the pandemic, and perhaps also due to some measure which is not quite understandable, a lot has been lost, and it will be necessary to achieve this consensus again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That means that I am on the subject of vaccination: The Commission's report will be presented tomorrow. As I say quite clearly to that, my access is, there are two guiding principles that are important to me: One is science, science, expertise – which is to be built on – and the second is constitutionality and integration into the Constitution of the Republic of Austria. These two outlines are in place, and the action of the Federal Government with regard to further action will have to be taken between these two guidelines. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It's starting well!]] What it needs is, I believe, also a social dialogue, as we continue on these issues as a whole. In recent weeks and months, all of them – I too – have received a number of e-mails that have either raised completely in one direction or in the very other direction radical demands. One wanted to explain the pandemic for end – the masqueradery: all nonsense!, The vaccination is a fool!, that's not all going out! – and on the other hand: even more strict, even more stringent measures and a dress at all levels. I tell you, if we want to take the majority of the population – and that would be my claim anyway – then it takes art to keep this balance. I will make a great effort to do this – by the way also in dialogue with the parliamentary parties. A sentence on the role of the parliamentary parties: I would like to express my express thanks to the SPÖ and NEOS, who have taken part in this Parliament's vaccination obligation. That was not an easy exercise with God for you. I also know the internal discussions in my own party. You've done this, you've taken over state-political responsibility, and you can be sure that I'm trying to involve you in the decisions in the future, too, because that can't be an entry. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Belakovich]] It is not possible to require consent to the vaccination obligation and then, on the other hand, to decide on the cooperation and the offer of the extended hand. So you can rely on me and take me by the word. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Let me conclude personally: I have taken over this office in a situation that is tense, which is not easy, which is not simple in geopolitical terms. I am not sure whether we have all understood what impact the events in Ukraine, in Russia, will have on all of us. It is important to me to stress the social role of my office, to value it. I've been in politics for a few years, but humble enough to know I've landed at the federal level now, I can't get away from the first day. I also say that to you because I believe this arrogance, I come to an office and then I can't have it right away. The requirements are high, I'm going to ask them, I'm also going to criticise them. Now let's finish by saying: I would like to express myself here and today in front of my house. The employees of my house have done incredible things in the last two years and have worked partly until exhaustion and beyond. If someone has to take responsibility, that is me and not the employees of my house in the future. I have this claim, and that is why I would like to ask you to do so. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] By the way – and I would like to conclude – I am looking forward to the debates in this House, I would like to thank you once again for this kind reception with all – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Vice-Chancellor, also with the other colleagues on the government bank – and you can be sure that I will do my best in my office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5791	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Bettina Rausch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5813	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a congratulations – very personal and also from my group – to the newly praised Minister of Health and Social Affairs, a great deal of success and good for his diverse tasks that he has just outlined! He is, however his statement may be heard, truly not a political newcomer and will start work immediately. He still experiences, I think, a remarkable meeting in front of his premiere in the House today in front of a remarkable background in a moving time. I am aware that he is not Minister of Education, but Minister of Health and Social Affairs, yet what I have experienced before his speech reminds me of a little bit of concepts from school. I would like to remind you that, just before the Federal Minister, colleagues Kucher and Kassager were speaking. Mr Kucher, I would like to say what you have done here at the speaker's desk, which was ultimately a smooth issue, and also the great verve, the commitment and excitement you have presented here, cannot in the end be fooled. To colleague Kassinger said: The term that comes to my mind is a follow-up mistake. That's what math works mean, if you don't have the basics right once; then in the end, nothing can come out of it. If one is unable and unwilling to expressly condemn this war of attack against Ukraine, then the proposals that are being put forward here cannot be meaningful proposals. – That was said at this point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] To make it concrete: I have listened very well, i.e. to hear how you defended Russian propaganda media here, and I think that is hardly beyond absurdity and danger. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Let's make ourselves aware of the situation we are in today: We have war in Europe, and to be honest, I would not have expected that in my life, in 21st century. It is still to be seen that a sovereign European state is being attacked and attacked, bombarded and occupied. I was the first time in the region, including for a long time in Ukraine, about 20 years ago, and I experienced a mood there that had already been borne by such a thing as awakening and confidence 20 years ago. I met people – many young people – who were just in the process of finally being able to live values such as freedom. That was about ten years after the Soviet regime was overcome. They have experienced that society can function differently, that state and politics can function differently. Countries as well as Ukraine then turned Europe around – not because they were forced to do so, not because they were forced to do so, but because they wanted to live and want to live by Western values: with freedom, with democracy, with social market economy. It was and continue to be the people in Ukraine who are heading west towards Europe who want to live in a society that we know and appreciate – and I think that in days like this, learning to appreciate it all the more. Yes, it was and is – and I believe it must be said openly – a contest between the systems, the political systems, and it was the people in Ukraine who turned towards the Western system who said in an ever greater number: That's how we want to live, and that's how we want to live together! This has shown the Orange Revolution 2004, the movement of Euromajdan in 2013 and 2014, and we are now again experiencing this incredible will of the people, this courage, also their freedom, their democratic values and their democratic country. The Federal Chancellor also impressively describes the contact with the Kiev mayor again and again. So now the Ukrainians see their chance in freedom and democracy. The Russian leadership around Vladimir Putin, however, apparently sees freedom and democracy as a danger, and that is the essential difference that we need to draw attention to and call into mind. Many Russians see that God is different. On the other hand, they go to the streets, and we in Austria – and this is very beautiful – show in a vast majority – unfortunately not completely here in Parliament – on which side we stand, namely, on the side of peace and democracy, of freedom and prosperity. We assume our responsibility, which always comes with freedom, namely, to share with so many other countries in the EU and in the UN position, to take a clear position for Ukraine and against the aggressor, even if it hurts – a keyword of sanctions – but I think no economic pain can be as great as the suffering that people in Ukraine suffer. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: They will stand it!]] When I talk about values that are important to us, I would like to say one more to the people in Austria: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you at this point too! Thank you for the wave of helpfulness we experience in Austria that goes through Austria! What we are currently experiencing is solidarity in the best sense of the word, namely not solidarity as a comfortable attitude, but solidarity as a concrete action and action – neighbourhood assistance, private associations, communities and organizations. I would like to recall – and this is remarkable –: In a very short time – the Minister of the Interior has said it this week – 20 000 accommodations have been provided for Ukrainians and Ukrainians. This real commitment is great, it characterizes us and ultimately makes us a country in which it makes me proud to live. The Federal Government was also thanked by Parliament at this point. She – the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence – accompanies, supports and complements – in the best sense – the front. Thanks to all those who have built up structures so quickly that help really works, for effective help requires not only open hearts, but also wise planning, and every commitment is all the more important, the more effective and goal-oriented it is! All those who follow the debate, who now want to help, which may have been stimulated many times today, are saying that we have many organisations. For example, I am thinking about the Caritas, the Red Cross in Austria, the Relief Agency International, which knows exactly what is needed and where you can help. Please contact these organizations, central coordination bodies and you may also donate money to support the logistics and organization! Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your hearts open at this time, possibly your wallets! Be ready to help in Austria and on site – not only today, not just this week, because unfortunately God will take longer than we love, and therefore we need your support on this marathon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5879	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5901	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Health Minister, welcome! Current: It has been about humanitarian corridors, and we hear that the one in Mariupol is shot by Russian troops. Let's find out: Putin is a war criminal, and he should actually find the end of a war criminal, he should go to The Hague. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, women are the most affected again. I said it last time, and I say it again today, not only because of the World Women's Day: Of course, they are the most affected. Just think of those terrible pictures we see that women have to have a child somewhere in a basement, that they are now on the run. But it has also weathered Kira Rudyk, the chairman of the Liberal Party Holos: Actually, we women should get flowers today, but we have weapons in our hands and we also defend ourselves for our country. – This too is the message from Ukraine today. I have always said that we are the happiest generation that ever lived in Austria. I know very well, Bedrana Ribo, the Minister of Justice and others, you have experienced flight, yes, and I have always found incredible what fate you had, and now we see this much closer. We were lucky that we never had to experience a war, that we were told how terrible that is – and now we are experiencing it from nearby. But we must also note that we should have known what Mr Putin is for one. We should have known! I can only tell you, read this book! [[Keeping the book “Putins Netz” by Catherine Belton in height]] What was the rise of Mr Putin? With the KGB, with the Mafiosi, with the old Communists, they first stole together in Saint Petersburg, and then they stole all over the country and distributed the money among themselves. And those who did not participate have been arrested, partly also killed, the media have been destroyed one by one. Then in 2014 the Crimea and the East of Ukraine were attacked, and a few months later one got swirled here! With him who was a war criminal at the time, one made jokes in Vienna, dictator funny back and forth! This is also a piece of our story, for which we have to confess and there we also have to say: We should have known. Unfortunately, what he did in the end has been logical. The following is also true – I wrote this in 2015 in the “Kurier” and was very criticised by Mr Wolf –: I said it could not be that the employee of an oligarch becomes the head of the Austrian state industry. And what did he do? – That the OMV delivers itself to Russia, and we have the result today. What we're experiencing is a tragedy. Karl Marx has continued to paraphrase Hegel – colleague Kickl knows himself – and has said: History occurs twice, once as a tragedy and once as a farce. – After the tragedy of Communism, I thought that this Putin, sitting naked on the horse and giving herself so great, was the Farce. No, he's the second tragedy! Unfortunately, Mark Twain is right, who has said that history is rhyming – from communism to Putinism, and it has become nothing better. The only difference is that we thought he was our friend and we could operate with him – but we can't. The next thing I have to say is: Putin is also responsible for terrorist attacks. That is why the very big question is not neutrality, ladies and gentlemen. The very big question is: How do we secure our security? How do we ensure the safety of the people living in Austria? Someone says neutrality. That's where I like to quote Hugo Portisch. I conducted an interview with him, and on 26 May. In October 2015, we published it in the “Kurier”. He said quite clearly about neutrality: “We talked to many generals who were in the planning staff at the time, both in the Warsaw Pact and in NATO. In the moment where war would have been, the generals from both sides said, all would have marched to Austria immediately.” I myself am a contemporary of a conversation with Helmut Kohl 1987. At the time, NATO troops have practiced that they naturally enter Austria when Russian troops come through the Danube valley, and I said to Mr Kohl: Mr. Federal Chancellor, how can NATO march into Austria? We're neutral. – He has become quite aggressive as he has done so much: You don't think you're yours. Defend land with your federal government! We're defending you, but not you with your federal army! Then I read briefly what the Swiss Minister for Defence says: Switzerland has a strong army and has neglected it less than Germany and Austria. - Quote. And what am I reading in the “standard” a few minutes ago? There is a strong debate between the Presidential Office and Mrs. Tanner, and that is to say, the Presidential Chancellery notes that the reorganisation is at risk of the German army and its capacity for use. Yeah, what does that mean? We say we're neutral and we're sure of that. - No, we're not! If we want to be sure of terrorist attacks – which we must fear and which we can only hope will not take place – we will only do so together with our European friends; and if we really want to defend ourselves in Austria, we will only do so together with the other Europeans. I know, of course, a European army, but now we have to cooperate. This starts with the purchase, which starts with joint exercises. That doesn't bother neutrality, please stop telling people nonsense! Of course, what we do is possible within the framework of neutrality. The Swiss have agreed to all sanctions just as we do. When we joined the EU, we changed the Constitution, namely on common foreign and security policy. So before we even hold the debate, it is clear that we can do even more within the framework of neutrality, because the objective is to endanger the safety of Austria – eh, to ensure. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Kassinger.]] And the security of Austria is at risk, says Major General Thomas Starlinger, who works for the President of the Federal Republic. This is reality, and we must face up to it, as we have said, with our hearts and with our deeds. Thank you to all who were in Ukraine! Thank you to all those who have donated! Thank you to all those who are now taking up people! We're going to have to do that now. And then you can only say: Hopefully this war criminal will soon be stopped! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e5998	Mrs. Susanne Raab has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6019	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today is world women's day, and World Women's Day reminds us every year that we still have to go a long way in service for women and for equality. He reminds us that we must also dare to look at the borders, that there are countries where women are pure objects in which women must not decide whether to take a job or who do not let women decide who they are not allowed to live in; that there are countries where safety and physical integrity are a pure illusion, because women are forced to marry because they are genitalally mutilated because they are even stoned. Although in Europe and also in Austria equality is such a fundamental value and we are in the happy situation that we are also entitled to equal rights on the basis of human rights and also with the protection of our constitutions as We are not where we should be, yes, where we must be, where it is commanded to be our liberal democracy. Where a society stands, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that equality is progressing. That is why the World Women's Day always reminds us that we must fight very hard on this matter together. This year, however, there is a special shadow over the World Women's Day, especially for us in Europe, even for us in Austria, because it is painful to us that the freedom and security, values that have become somehow self-evident for us – for my generation and for the generation after that – are a perfectly normal and everyday good – that these values are not, of course, even on our common continent, not even in our immediate neighborhood. Women are always the very quiet sufferers. They are the ones who must be strong for their children, who even try to give their children a bit of normality, to give them a little bit of everyday life that their fathers, their husbands and sons have to leave and go into an uncertain future, and all this about 600 kilometers away, so close! That is why we have a very central responsibility in the sense of neighbourhood assistance, a responsibility which we have to meet differently: on the one hand, with the immediate solidarity of Ukraine, on the other hand with humanitarian aid on the ground, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the fact that those displaced, especially women and children seeking protection in Austria, also receive this protection. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I met a group of Ukrainian women last week, women who have lived in Austria for a long time, but have just Ukrainian roots. It is inconceivable what these women are suffering at the moment, because, of course, they are on the phone during our joint meeting, because they are constantly waiting for news from home, because they are constantly getting the news, as the war develops, as in the cities, whether the families still in Ukraine are still alive, whether the families make it to them to Austria. With all the suffering and all the worries in space, it was nevertheless an inconceivable strength to feel inconceivable power in this room. This strength has encouraged me again, and it has encouraged us together to give the women and, above all, the children who are now coming to Austria all the help we need. I have just opened a new women's centre today in the Austrian Integration Fund, a centre specifically geared to the needs of refugee women, because, especially when women and children come, there are special needs, because it is often about the integration of children into the education system, because it is of course also a matter of violence, because it is often also about what women have to suffer, even on their way. We have good integration structures in Austria. We will also give them to women and children. We have a broad system of German courses, we have a broad system of orientation courses, and of course we have good labour market and integration measures. Now, however, it is only once that the sensitivity should be exercised and that the special situations in which women now have to flee with their children should also be taken into account and perceived. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the World Women's Day, it is also our task to look at Austria. The key findings are: Yeah, it's done a lot, but it's still a lot to do. I would also like to express my express thanks to the coalition partner for the fact that many steps have been taken in the last two years, from the increase in the budget by more than 80 percent since I took office to the largest package of violence protection – around 25 million euros invested in structures – to the steady increase in the promotion of women's and girls' advisory facilities. When I see Federal Minister Martin Kocher here, I imagine: There is an disproportionate promotion of women on the labour market, a record budget for women on the labour market. There is also a steady improvement in childcare in the area of family and work compatibility. Our goal, however, must be that every woman and girl can live independently in Austria, financially independent. We need real freedom of choice for women in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] In addition, it is very central that we continue to work on quality childcare. This is the key to the genuine freedom of choice of families so that families and women can decide for themselves which model of life they choose, whether they want to enter the acquisition earlier or want to be at home for longer. We need this genuine freedom of choice, and therefore we will continue to invest in the development of childcare together with the federal states. In addition to what we have done, further measures are needed. I just set up a new facility last week. The fund is called LEA, which stands for Let’s Empower Austria, and it will work in the field of knowledge transfer, because I want women to be able to make conscious decisions, that they know what it means when they are longer in the karenz and what this may mean for their pension. I want us to free girls from their boundaries in thinking. They should know that they can learn every profession they want. I want them to also be interested in, so to speak, male domains, for the future industries in the technology, in the scientific field, in the mathematical field. I also want to get the great women we have in Austria, who have done so much here, in front of the curtain. Federal Chancellor, aside from Brigitte Bierlein, supports our project as well as the director of the Technical University Sabine Seidler, as well as the team leader of the Austrian football team of women Irene Fuhrmann and many other brave women who want to reach together with me the young women and girls to be a model for giving them inspiration. Ladies and gentlemen, equality is a task that we do not only do in the Ministry of Women. It's a task that concerns all of us. It is not only a very central question of fairness, but it is also a question of making Austria future fit. I want every woman to be able to live self-determined, I want every woman to be financially independent, and I would of course like no woman to learn discrimination that equal work is also paid for; for less to earn, just because one is a woman, that is totally unacceptable! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Of course, we often have different approaches to women's policy. I am convinced, however, that there is simply a great deal of agreement over the parties, That we should jointly call injustices, that we should together recognise that we still have to go a long way to genuine equality, and that we all need to work on it together, men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6138	Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6159	Madam President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ministers and ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Granted, discussing the Ukraine war on women's day is not quite easy. On the other hand, it's all related. Everyone and everyone wants to live freely, self-determinedly, without violence in peace, and this concerns women affected by this war, especially. War is war to determine in principle just as a human being is. It is important to me today that the war fighting always leads, without exception, to devastating consequences, to escape, violence, to crime. Whoever believes that we are creating peace with purely military upgrade, has not drawn the lessons from the Cold War. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is important that we decide today on a further request from the two government parties, which clearly condemns Russia's aggression, in which we clearly declare our solidarity with Ukraine, which clearly demands protection for all persecuted people, and which clearly states that we will continue to refer to Russia with our international and European partners. That is why I do not want to repeat what has already been said about political will. Instead, I would like to take the time to put this Ukraine war in a political, foreign-political, peace-political context. The world order has been awakened, we hear of the often, and yes, the world order will never be the same again through this Ukraine war. But what we don't hear today is how all of this is related. Those who condemn Putin today say that we should have done this much earlier, but at the same time ignore what networks it is, which allies it is, which support it is that allows Putin to act in this way. China, which has been guilty of genocide within its own borders, will observe very closely how the Western world is positioning itself in terms of the Russian threat. China will observe very closely what we are doing now, because what is now being established in Ukraine will become a reality for Europe as a whole. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We, the international community, are experiencing this world history in a very concentrated mode of acceleration, democracy against autocracy, open to closed society, multilateral world order based on international law against a world in which only the power of the stronger counts. If we are human now and if we now call for humanity, we must not forget that on the Greek islands people continue to suffer, then we must not forget that Putin's bombs in Syria are the same as now in the Ukraine and that man is always war and man! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP and NEOS.]] One thing that is overlooked in the whole debate and also in these very clear convictions against Russia: We overlook the role of the Western Balkans, we overlook the role of China and we overlook the role of the South Caucasus. To mention just a few examples: Vucić has had his media printed in Serbia the Fakenevs who spread Putin, and there were mass demonstrations in which the war against Ukraine was approved. Dodik, who says Srebrenica was not a genocide, has exchanged with Lawrow, the Russian Foreign Minister, two days after the beginning of the war. In Bosnia, elections are soon being held, and if we overlook how all of these despotic autocrats around Russia Putin are not only helping but supporting them, then we will be very surprised by a devastating domino effect, which will now be used and which may no longer be stopped. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In this sense: Yes, let us continue to condemn this war! Yes, we are human to our responsibility to help people who are now fleeing from this war, but we do not overlook that Putin has back cover and we in Europe, when this war arrives in the Balkans, to which not only are completely exposed, but nothing more can be done. In this sense, an appeal to the Austrian Parliament to look further in the course of the debate than only to Kiev, to look further than only to Moscow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6247	Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6269	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Bundesminister, I have to go straight to They replicate: Yeah, it's still a lot to do, but as a minister, we have a different claim to you. It is not enough to impose, within the framework of the women's day, an intruding fund for any parliamentary control. It is not enough to convey empowerment only through webinars and role models, but it needs clear legal regulations that finally treat and equal women, namely clear legal regulations in the area of wage transparency, the mandatory father's care and many others also, clear legal regulations instead of intransparent funds and simply away from this individual elbow policy: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If you just go far enough out the elbows, everyone can do it. No, no, no, no, We want solidarity, legal and feminist women's policy and away from the elbow mentality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, there is another statement of government. Two weeks ago, as SPÖ, we discussed the subject of Long Covid. It's really a big heart concern to us. Two weeks ago, 200 000 people were affected, in particular women and children who suffer from fatigue, muscle weakness, breathing, concentration disorders and much more. The treatment options are still far too little, whether outpatient or stationary, and currently young women with 35 who actually want to be in the middle of life are getting into retirement. We'll ask you. to take Long Covid seriously as a topic and to address it very soon, as a health minister as well as as as a social minister. I do not think we can signal these women, especially on World Women's Day, that we leave them in the rain – but: hope dies last. I have already been optimistic about your speech that you are addressing a wide range of issues and are trying to do good here. As has been said, hope is the last one to die, so we have also agreed to a wide-ranging party proposal on women's health. However, I would also like to appeal to all of you here in this House that this women's health plan should not only remain a paperist, but that it should then be taken into account both distractions and implementation. Unfortunately, as short-term as this proposal has come, we have no longer managed to negotiate it. But it is important, I believe, that we not only produce a paper for the drawer, but also take this women's health plan seriously and actually implement it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On Women's Day, a second topic is also very important to us: Poverty and the current cost explosion. We know that women are particularly affected or threatened by poverty, as single parents, as pensioners, as students, and all these women are of course extremely affected when heating and electricity become more expensive when prices for rent have almost doubled over the last ten years. However, women have earned more, they have earned the same wage as the male colleague at the side table, and they also deserve to know that, with a burden of proof and a wage transparency law according to Icelandic example. We really need to strengthen them in self-employment, and a transparent wage law would be an important approach to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Unfortunately, however, we have to put up with energy prices very directly today, so I am putting in place the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Today, however, I am also particularly important: The women's movement was always a peace movement. Already Johanna Dohnal said: “The peace is too important to leave it to the men alone,” and she was right: Women at the negotiating tables in peace policy, women at the negotiating tables in security policy, women at the negotiating tables in every policy area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Women's solidarity – which I believe, unfortunately, is also always important to emphasize – is international. We stand with the refugee women, whether from Afghanistan or from Ukraine, and also with those who flee Russia because they go to the streets for peace. Women's solidarity is international, women's solidarity is peace policy, and we are quite clear about that too. That is why we are also in the alliance of a broad request, but it is also important to me in this respect that concrete steps must be taken on him: How do we really want to support women when they arrive at us? How do we want to work with the children on the trauma they have experienced in the last few years? How do we protect women from trafficking in human beings, from which we read in the newspapers, on Twitter and Co, namely that women and children disappear and become victims of trafficking in human beings? – We have to stand up very clearly and really put in place the fastest measures and strategies. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[17:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6461	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr is now speaking. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6485	Mr President. Dear Minister of Women! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) No matter with which weapons a war is waged, there are no winners. To describe it in other words by Bertha von Suttner: At the end, “exhaustion, destruction on both sides. ” The World Women's Day, which we're going to be the 111 today. Whenever you go, this is always used to express solidarity with all the women of the world, as Mr Holzleitner said earlier. Today, of course, he is under the impression of the terrible military actions in Ukraine. The Ukrainians are currently doing superhuman things. They care about elderly people, they care about the sick, they care for their children, they provide humanitarian aid, or they also actively resist the brutal war of the attack of Putin. This brings me a lot of respect. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Others, together with their children and older family members, have decided to flee, leaving their husbands, fathers and brothers in uncertainty and do not know if they will see them again alive. They are fleeing where they are exposed to great dangers, and they do not know in the end where they will land, which land they will take up. Many international organisations are constantly drawing attention to the disproportionate deterioration of the situation of women and children in armed conflicts. In particular, such conflicts have an impact on the human rights and humanitarian situation of women and children, as they are particularly vulnerable. Sexual war crimes, such as rapes, are a tactic of war and, of course, affect women and children. There is also the danger that women and children will be victims of trafficking in human beings. In my opinion, this is the most cruel way of fighting, and it is always used in wars. There are, of course, examples of this, and the war in the former Yugoslavia is such a one. I myself have met and talked to women affected by it; that was on the occasion of the Syria war, 2014 when this war reached its peak. I have spoken to Jesidian women who have not only been expelled from their homeland and have experienced mass rapes, but have subsequently also been sold on slave markets. Some were bought back by their families, but then kicked out because they had been raped. These faces, these eyes, these stories I will not forget all my life. I really hope that the Ukrainian women will be spared from these effects. There are already reports, however, that women and children are being intercepted directly at the border, for example, to Poland and that holders are admitted to trafficking in human beings. We must prevent all of this, please, as far as possible. In Austria, we need to ensure that these women are adequately treated to meet their needs; the Minister has already said that. I would really like to thank all those who help to welcome those people who have started all kinds of assistance to make the apartments available. For example, the country of Tyrol has decided to provide treatment places in the field of children'soncology to those children who had previously been told by Mrs. Col. Meinl-Reisinger, who have been bombed out of childoncology, or part of these children, in Tyrol. In this context, I would also like to make a four-party proposal summarising all these concerns and some more that I am unfortunately unable to address now. This proposal concerns the support of women and Children as particularly sufferers of war. He includes all that I have now told you, and even more, and is addressed to the Federal Minister for Women, Family and Integration, to the Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution, to the Federal Minister for the Interior and to the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs. [[Quoted print version removed]] I have heard that the colleagues of the FPÖ will also vote in favour, and thank you in advance. - Thank you. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[17:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6637	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6669	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! The main reason for today's meeting is the 12th government reform of the Black-Green Coalition, more precisely the start of the Third Minister of Health, after both predecessors failed not only in the management of the Covid crisis, but obviously also in their coalition partner, the ÖVP. Federal Minister of Smoking! They actually have a heavy burden to take over, because this federal government has led the country through the corona crisis in data-technical chaos – one could almost say one has been more pomped through. On the basis of empowerment laws, which have been unnecessarily extended, Parliament's regulations have been passed and the fundamental and freedom rights of people in this country have been completely disproportionately restricted. Whoever does not believe this, may read your predecessor's answers to the questions of the Constitutional Court. There it is black on white to read. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kogler speaks of a success report, I ask myself: What success do you think, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? Austria today stands clearly worse in terms of health policy than it did two years ago. We have fewer treatment capacities available in the hospitals, there have actually been fewer treatments, there have been much fewer precautions, even the vaccination rate has declined in almost all areas. There is a massive increase in overweight people, also caused by the blockades for our children and young people due to the closures of schools, clubs and fitness centers. We see an increase in the number of diabetics and – quite massively – people with mental disorders by at least 50 percent, in some areas there is even a doubling. If you say, Yeah, that's all the corona virus! No, these deteriorations are not caused by the corona virus! The deterioration in Austrian health care and the health status of the population are the direct consequences of the measures of this federal government, not the corona virus, and therefore we really need urgent action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] We need a change of course. We need a change of course, we need a new epidemic law, in which it is clearly defined, when an epidemic begins, and when it is also over again, Mr President of the Federal Minister of Smoking. We certainly do not need a vaccination law that forces people into therapy against their will. We also do not need any more covid measures and, above all, we do not need a WHO-pandemic agreement in the form it is now in place. We don't need all of that. We need a health policy again – not against citizens in this state, but for citizens in that state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are many other things that have to be dealt with urgently away from Corona, some of which have already been mentioned today. First of all, we need to see that the capacities in health care are rebuilt, creating the necessary flexibility to cope with future health crises without restricting our citizens' freedom. We need to strengthen the established area – the key to lack of care, but also the lack of specialist doctors – because in the crisis, it has also been shown that these systems are particularly important but have been seriously neglected. We don't just need placebos of a care reform, but we need a real one. Care reform. We need to attract the various health professions and to intensify training. However, we also need more investment in health education for the population, Mr Federal Minister, because then we can actually rely more on our own responsibility, as the successful examples of international life have lived before us. And we need a reform in the field of health authorities, because it cannot be that after two years of health crisis there are still districts in which we do not even have an official at our disposal. All these are tasks that have to be dealt with urgently, which have been seriously neglected by your predecessors from my point of view. As a free health speaker and the FPÖ, I am happy to be at your disposal for a discussion, and we are happy to make proposals. I hope you will not repeat the mistake of your predecessor, who has refused any dialogue with the FPÖ in recent months.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6741	The next speaker is Michel Reimon. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6763	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government, especially Johannes Rauch! – It is beautiful and pleasant that you are here now! As Minister of Health, you will certainly take over one of the most difficult, if not the most difficult, political office at present. Your long-standing experience in a state government and the handling and interaction of federal competences and national competences can only be very helpful. I have also found it very encouraging that you have pointed out again that you are also a Social Minister that you are coming from the social area. This will certainly have to and should be of particular importance in the next two years. I would like to talk a little bit about this: I was wondering when she started. Following the declaration of the Federal Chancellor and Vice Chancellor, Mr Rendi-Wagner came to the speaker's desk as opposition leader, and of course I expected her to criticize. I would have expected that, as a former Minister of Health, she might criticize the health sector or criticize social policy as a social democrat, or say something as a feminist to the women's day, or as a chairwoman of the Foreign Policy Committee, say something about foreign policy and Ukraine – but I really did not expect a purely tactical internal-political debate on a non-conventional neutrality debate and I honestly do not think very helpful. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not think that they are helpful because we should have a neutrality discussion, but not the wrong ones, which is a purely domestic policy tactic to maximize votes – after all, we are talking about a war, about the situation of people in Ukraine that we need to help. A purely tactical play just doesn't matter. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] It is true that the Austrian neutrality is not at all a debate, because it is military. The ÖVP stands for it, the Greens stand for it, I hear from the Social Democrats, the position of NEOS is – with regard to Europe – something different, but ultimately they are not for a NATO accession, and I would not have heard of the liberals either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] There is no such discussion. What we should discuss is not whether Austria is neutral, since I would expect seriousness, but how it is neutral – and I have not heard a serious proposal on this matter. I'd like to make one: What I would expect and hope for is that we will live our neutrality in such a way that we actively go to people who need support. Neutrality is not a contradiction to human rights issues and no contradiction to democratic issues, so let us take action in this area. It is simple and simply not honest to believe that we could return to a neutrality like in the – no idea – eighties. We already have to look into the facts: At the time we were also a tool of the two superpowers who needed a neutral in the middle; there is no longer that. What we should do is support democracy movements, in the present situation, as I think, especially in Russia and in Belarus. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That's what we should do. Let's do that! The National Council Bureau could make a meeting, an event, on behalf of Parliament. If we invite dissidents, democratic activists, human rights activists from Russia, from Belarus, we will discuss this in Parliament – the four parties! If we make such an event, we live active democracy instead of some inner-political charities about neutrality – the four parties that oppose this war that are against Putin! Let us make such a discussion and help human rights activists! Let's do something like that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] And I'm just saying, "the four parties," because one thing has to be said: The role of the liberals here today was clear again. You are the extended arm of Putin in this Parliament, and if anyone here is not neutral, then these are the liberals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Of you, of the FPÖ summit, there are photos in Moscow, there are the photos of the Foreign Minister who takes the Knicks – if they were sitting in the Council now, she could make a veto. Do something to her, make it transparent once! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'd be interested in what influence Putin has with you. [[Abg. Stefan:... Chamber of Commerce!]] Show the Court of Auditors your books and see what came from Putin in your reign and what it was like! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Stefan]] The Court of Auditors may only look at what you are presenting. [[Abg. Stefan: Who welcomed Lukashenko? Van der Bellen, right? ...!]] If you have nothing to hide – where is colleague Kickl as party leader? –, please submit your books to the Court of Auditors from your time of government! I would like to know what Putin is saying in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6881	Next speaker is Mag. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6905	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In my eight years in this House, I now experience the eighth Minister of Health and the seventh Minister of Social Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The resorts have been grouped together for a few years, and I personally consider the task not to deal with at all – all the more success I wish my fellow countryman. In the first statement today, we have heard something about care, we have heard about health, about animal welfare, about consumer protection, but we have not heard anything about the most important pieces in the social minister's area of responsibility, namely pensions. In the year when this government took over, the federal grant to pensions amounted to only EUR 9.9 billion, and at the end of this legislative period – if the coalition continues until the end – it will be EUR 14.3 billion, i.e. an increase of 44 percent within a legislative period. A good social minister assumes responsibility, and the experienced social politicians know he has responsibility for the boys, because the old are already in retirement and their pensions are relatively well insured. The Austrian average pension is 60 percent higher than the German average pension – by 60 percent! – but the boys who retire in 40 or 50 years of age cannot be sure if they get a pension that covers their needs in old age. [[Call: My God, after]] [[Abg. Lightenness: We have heard this from you for 100 years now!]] A good social minister must ensure that social systems are built up in such a way that they can still provide solid benefits in 40, 50 years. A good social minister must also be on the table in the government, so that the Republic does not lose billions of tax money for non-violence such as energy vouchers, single-time payments and immunities. And if we spend more than twice as much on Coronatests as on the entire minimum level of security, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health must be upset at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The new Minister for Social Affairs and Health has great opportunities in the fight against pandemics. If one comes to the house with a lot of experience, is 62 years old and no longer has to pursue career goals, because one has achieved everything, then the national leaders, as one says with us, can come to the church ordination, that is to say, uf d’Kilbe ko; then one could go through something and give a direction according to the Epidemic Law and do not have to be quoted at the Achensee and let the nine heads of state put the Wadln to virus, but vice versa. And then I also take the statement on the floor: only as many measures as necessary. We've seen it over in Switzerland Lockdowns don't do anything. [[Abg. Lightenness: What about NATO accession now? That would be interesting!]] The Swiss have the same pandemic as us, but the schools were open, the hairdressers were open, the Gastro was open, the ski lifts were open. There is a lot to do, Mr Minister, and for that I wish you, dear John Rauch, I wish you, Mr Minister – with the official I am, of course, by you – a lot of energy and more success than he had done to all the predecessors!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e6986	Mrs Mag.a Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7011	Mr President. Dear Representative and Government Representatives! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's the 13. Day of the war against innocent people by Putin, and it's also International Women's Day – and what, my Ladies and gentlemen, do we see? – We see pictures of desperate women, of weeping women, of mothers who put on their frightened children, of their husbands, of their fathers, say goodbye and don't know if they'll ever see them again. The suffering is great, yes, you can't put it in words, but for me everything relativizes otherwise. Yeah, it's all relative. How dissatisfied are we, in fact, very often? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is particularly important that we stand together that we put the constructive at the centre of our work in Austria, in our work in the Parliament for the people of Austria, that we do everything we can to pour graves in order to get cracks in order to prevent divisions that have been discussed and discussed very often in recent times – in all areas of our lives, in all areas of society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] It is now important to stand together to give people security, cohesion, trust in our society in Austria, but also trust in Europe. Let's give the Austrians a hold, confidence and security, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Zorba on his work.]] And if a new Minister of Health and Social Affairs is to be welcomed here with Johannes Rauchheute, the latte for him – which has been mentioned several times today – is very high, and he knows that. But your long political experience, Mr. Federal Minister, is particularly important at this time of crisis. The first major challenge is certainly the current corona management. The first tasks will be to make all preparations for autumn and winter, to create clarity in testing and vaccination, but also in terms of further measures. It is necessary to act prudently here. You said it was important for you to find a balance. I think this is good and important, because the interests are very different: the interests of young people, the elderly, the economy, the interests in the various areas of society. And yes, everyone has enough of the limitations, we all have enough of it, but that also relativizes myself in my view. That is also relative. Let us continue to consider each other! The pandemic is not over. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, you stressed in your first statement and said today that you also want to be more visible as a Social Minister. I think this is particularly important in this situation, because the consequences of the pandemic, but also the consequences of the war will have a very strong impact on the social fabric, also here in Austria. It's been done a lot. It has already been mentioned a lot today: Psychosocial care for children and young people has been greatly increased; poverty reduction, the elimination of inflation. Previously, pensions have been mentioned: Yes, Mr Loacker, we support the fact that people who have worked for a long time also receive a corresponding pension. The care reform was addressed. There is also a great deal to do, not only to achieve improvements for employees, but above all to combat the shortage of skilled workers. There are first important approaches, but that is too little. There is still a lot of progress to be made here, and we will all be sure to stick to it together. The caregivers need to be strengthened at home. I would like to mention something because it has not yet been stressed: It is also waiting, Federal Minister, for implementation of the National Action Plan as a basis for disability policy by 2030. This is about educational issues, but it is also about the inclusive labour market. This is also a very important area: work for people with disabilities. The latte is very high, and I think the challenges are getting bigger from day to day. We have very large cohesion in the area of humanitarian aid here in Austria, which obviously also needs to be organized, which needs to be coordinated and merged. It has already been said, but you can't stress it often enough: a great thank you to all the people in Austria who donate, all non-profit organizations, all the helpers, all the volunteers who are tremendously involved. I refer to the Red Cross, the Diacony, the Caritas, the Relief Agency International, for example, which also organize emergency sleeping places in Ukraine. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, I wish you all the best of your work here in the House. I think that if someone has started as a youth caretaker in the community work when someone has graduated from the Academy of Social Work – in addition to work, I think that is great – when someone has worked in the field of unemployment care, in the debt counseling, when someone has worked in the social psychiatry, then he has the conditions needed to have a good social sense and the social competence that is so urgently needed, in addition to far-sightedness, in politics. I believe that we need this social sense especially in times like this one. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue to work for peace in this world, for security in Europe, for peace and for freedom in Ukraine! I think the thoughts of all of us are among the suffering-tested people in the war zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7095	Mr Josef Muchichist, the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank Wolfgang Mückstein for the time he has provided to politics, and to wish him every good from this point of view. I can immediately transfer to the new Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Johannes Rauch. I should also like to welcome you very warmly, on behalf of my group and in my capacity as chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I hope that good and open cooperation will take place. I am already admiring your courage and your determination to take over this difficult function, knowing that you are taking over this function at a time when seniors are going to the streets because, due to the price of their pensions, they no longer know how to pay their bills, at a time when short-time work is unfortunately going to rise again, because of the fact that production in Austria with its economic links with Russia and Ukraine is naturally difficult, at a time when the export volume will also fall, in which there is also the risk that unemployment will rise again and the incomes of workers will be reduced again, but this is at increasing cost of living and living. All the more so, your intention and your desire to do everything that poverty in Austria does not continue to increase, to counter action is very important and welcome. Mr Sozialminister, the problem is that the government does not take any action against this costing that the government has not yet taken any anti-inflation measures. I do not want to resort as far as Mr Loacker is concerned, but I say that there has been a social reduction in Austria in the last five years alone, in the time of the ÖVP's Chancellorship. In these five years, I was allowed to accompany six social ministers in the Committee – six ministers in five years! This was a time when the pensions were shortened, in which a twelve-hour day and a sixty-hour week were made possible by law, in which the social security was broken down, in which the self-administration was pushed back, in which the patient billions were promised but never realized, in which – that was already 2018 – a care reform was promised, but which has not yet come, and in which – since 2018 – the poverty rate in Austria is rising. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Yes, Minister of Social Affairs, you are responsible for social security. They are responsible for social compensation in Austria and you are also responsible for social justice in Austria, and if we can support you in your projects, we as the Social Democratic Party are willing to do the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Social Minister, the expectations of your person as a political pro from Vorarlberg, who has now decided to switch to the political federal league, are really great, and I would really ask you to take all the measures that will help those people in Austria who now urgently need the suspension of these economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine. And these are all professional groups, these are all people, these are pensioners, these are families, these are employees, but these are also entrepreneurs who now need our support. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Sozialminister, it is a motion for a resolution which covers all occupational groups, self-employed, self-employed, seniors and families. Today, in his speech at the beginning of this plenary session, the Federal Chancellor said the sentence: We need to be united and united against this war in Europe. Mr Sozialminister, we also need closeness and unity in Austria against this inflation and against any kind of increasing poverty. [[Abg. Lettschauer: In climate change...!]] Please support our motion for a resolution! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7271	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The word is now known as Mag. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7298	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sozialminister, dear Johannes Rauch! I am particularly pleased that you are sitting here today and have decided to take up all of this at this time and to follow Wolfgang Mückstein in whom I would like to thank him very much for everything he has done – for his commitment, which was anything but simple. I say it quite honestly: As the working and social spokesperson of the Greens, I was particularly pleased that you have highlighted the issue of social policy and your role as future Minister of Social Affairs. There's actually going to be a lot on us once the pandemic has been overcome so far that we're going to, Although we have already done so, even more burning, we can take greater care of certain social problems which we actually have. As a social minister, you are something like the minister of protection of the social state, a social state. You have today stressed the high importance of the social state, the importance of the social state. In fact, it is thanks to this social state that we have come through this crisis without gross social outrage, that we have come through this crisis with a functioning health system capable of putting up vaccinations for very many people, ensuring the care and care of very many sick people, and which has proved to be very resistant to the enormous loads we have had. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Fortunately, we have a social system in which we can react very quickly and easily as a policy to make it even more secure in crises than it is anyway. We have shown this with increases in unemployment insurance, with increases in emergency aid, in order to counter this social crisis, this threatening social crisis. It is not natural for such a pandemic with such economic and social outrages to hold social security in some way in the lot! This social state must be guaranteed at any price. However, this social state needs to be expanded where we actually still have gaps – and we have them, we have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The social state is always very much seen as a cost factor, as an exaggerating expenditure factor, and it is very often reduced to it. – No, social statehood is much more. Social statehood secures participation, social statehood secures trust; the social state is above all a huge economic factor. If at the height of the crisis, we spend 34 percent of our total economic benefit for social services, for which social security benefits have been paid in this country, for pensions, for unemployment insurance, for health care, then we only see how enormous the importance is. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Without this social state, economic or economic action would often not be possible, because the social state only creates the framework conditions in the field of education, childcare, care, health care, the unemployment system, so that economics is at all possible. It is my particular concern, and we Greens, to stress the importance of social statehood over and over again. The social state is not a cost factor. The social state is a factor of civilised society, is a civilisational achievement and an enormous production factor, a huge productive factor that serves all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7368	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7392	Mr President. Federal Minister of Smoking! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Ladies on the government bank! I therefore welcome Minister Rauch first because he is new here in Parliament – welcome also from our side! You have already presented yourself very intrusively today. You have said that you will stretch out your hand, but have your hand towards the Freedom Party. I'll be right back in. You don't want to negotiate with us at all because we were against the vaccination obligation. It will also remain, we will continue to be against this vaccination obligation, because it is a massive intervention into the fundamental and freedom rights of individuals and into physical integrity, ladies and gentlemen! We also stand, and if that leads to you not handing us, then we will take note of it. But then it also shows that what you said was not meant to be so, and that it is not only going on that way, but that it is going much worse; for one thing has to be shown to the excretioned Social Minister: He has at least been looking for the conversation, knowing that our opinion is a completely contrary one and that we will never meet there either. So you've already made that clear today. Thank you very much for knowing at the beginning what we are all about! If we're already there: You have today – which was very encouraging – here and said that you are above all also Social Ministers. That's good, important and right. We have not had that in recent years, but Minister Mückstein has done nothing in the social field. If the vice chancellor comes here and says he has prepared a care reform, yes, I wonder: So what did he actually do? – You hear and you don't see anything about it. Perhaps it was due to the pandemic, or to his work, he focused above all on the health sector. Of course, what has come out is different. You have also said - I have listened closely to you - that you respect parliamentaryism, democracy and the legislation on the basis of the Constitution. I think this is very positive and very pleasing, because legislation on the subject of the Constitution has not been given in the last two years. We know exactly how many regulations have been repealed by the Constitutional Court in the last two years. This is certainly not something we have especially appreciated, and we will, of course, measure you by your actions, Minister of State. The social problems, the social crisis – this is only true of us now. My previous speaker talked about how we managed the pandemic in the middle of the social fabric. - Yeah, I'm right about you. We've done that half way. But what is now happening to us is the social crisis, which, of course, comes in to us as a result of this pandemic. If you say that over 31 percent of the budget in the social system is already in place, that we have needed it, then it is good that we have a social network, but on the other hand, it is a bad testimony to the policies you have made: that we have to spend 31 percent in order to absorb it half way. I do not really want to, because we need an active economic policy. But you have completely broken them with your corona measures, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, but the economic crisis will come now, the social crisis will now come, of course also reinforced by the war in Ukraine, and I would like to make it clear to you, because today we have come here several times from all possible parties: Yes, there are four parties for peace! – The Freedom Party has condemned this war from the very beginning. Every military war is to be condemned, there is no If and no But! But what we are criticizing, and that is what we are talking about, is the theory of war, which has now returned from the German Chancellor's place, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly the rhetoric we don't need. We don't need to pour oil into the fire, and that's not a knee before Putin, but that's a consideration. What we need now is deescalation! In the next few months and weeks, we will have to talk a lot about social tensions, especially energy costs, which now, of course, are going to be fast at incalculable heights through this war. We will also talk about the social crisis, because people cannot afford to live, which energy costs cannot afford, food often cannot afford. Of course, the energy crisis makes it all more expensive. These are the tasks you will have to deal with in the next few months. We would like to be willing to help a little bit, and we will ultimately measure you by the actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7455	Next speaker is Irene Neumann-Hartberger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7480	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Values Advisors! I would also like to introduce the opportunity to welcome our new social and health ministers here in the House very warmly; above all, I wish you much strength and endurance in this very challenging time. And I am looking forward to a good cooperation and I am very confident that we will be able to implement the designation of origin required by us for so long with your support in Bälden. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Now I would like to take a look over our border. We are all at war, especially when it takes place in Europe. When I see the pictures of the destroyed cities, the open streets, the bombarded skyscrapers and cars, pictures of thousands of fleeing men, women, young people and children, partly with babies or even pets, I am personally deeply shaken. Many people across Europe, however, show solidarity and send help and food. Whoever helps quickly helps twice, but humanitarian aid is probably necessary in the long term; Continuity will be immensely important. Hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing, but many women have also remained in Ukraine, fighting like lions, trying to support their husbands, maintaining the local care as well as they can, or bringing their children, older and injured people to safety. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In this dangerous situation, women in Ukraine, as well as their countrymen, are overhuman. Especially in such times of crisis, there are once again dependencies which are often not so obvious and certainly not every man and woman. With an area of 600 000 square kilometres, Ukraine is the second largest country in Europe and almost twice as large as Germany – just to imagine the dimensions as well – and the Ukraine's agricultural area alone is 32 million hectares four times the total area in Austria. Ukraine is therefore the fourth most important supplier of agricultural products to the EU. However, the war in Ukraine also has a massive impact on global food supply, and above all it affects those countries that are characterised by instability and food scarcity. Thus, this war is also a fire accelerator with regard to hunger in the Third World. And even if food supplies are ensured in Austria, we cannot care about the serious distortions in agricultural trade. Only the rising fuel prices, which are partly non-existent or exorbitant expensive fertilizers are, among other things, an unacceptable challenge for our agricultural production in terms of economic efficiency. The exploding prices of wheat and cereals are already causing enormous price increases in both food and feed. This means, for example, that the already difficult price situation in pigmeat production becomes even more acute. And who will operate agriculture in Ukraine this year? Who will take care of wheat production there? If the men defend the country militaryly, it will be up to the women and children to take over. If we are celebrating the World Women's Day today, we should think first of all about women in Ukraine. We farmers in Austria will make massive efforts to support these women. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] If the wheat becomes scarce or no longer palatable, for example, for some countries in North Africa it is even worse than the lack of fuel or electricity, because bread from wheat is the food of poor people, often the only thing they can afford – and then it is no longer far to hunger uprising and rest. Perhaps we take today's day on the occasion of putting into proper light the inconveniences of the last two years – regulations, measures which one or another once again, once more, has less positively assessed or condemned – in their proportionality: War as a bad occasion to make us aware of how happy and grateful we must actually be to live in a country like Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7549	Mrs Dr.in Stephanie Krisper spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7573	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Conflicts are escalating to wars – all over the world, now on European soil. The reactions of Austria, the EU, the international community of states were different to these war situations, also to the same aggressor – Putin – because thousands of civilians were already killed and threatened by Putin's cruel games in Aleppo. We can talk a lot about the failure of the great policy towards Putin, about a lack of distance, short-sighted, selfish and therefore wrong decisions, but this is not one of the children sitting in the basement and fearing, helping and not serving any refugee people. I believe that we are not yet fully aware of the scale of the disaster – the number is today of two million refugees; the UNHCR, of course, is based on further movements – but this should be the guiding principle for what we as politicians are focusing on here: How do we best help the many people who fear their lives? We talk more, but it is civil society in Europe, in Austria, which is really more helpful than talking – the compassion is touching – with money, the high level of donations, the provision of private accommodation by mobilising people. We know that, we have experienced that before: 2015 and the years after. In recent years, the assistance at that time has been rarely recognized and often misrepresented by the government. Even today, Federal Minister Raab has shown in the interview, That it will be seen even further. She said it was a completely different situation now than 2015. But even in recent years, refugees from war areas such as Syria and Afghanistan – a majority of asylum seekers came from there – have come to be distinguished cynically in good and bad refugees and thus in good and bad aid from civil society. As a government, they should simply be grateful for the great commitment that is now being revived, especially because the Ministry of the Interior has failed to adapt to new refugee movements in recent years, both as regards asylum procedures and accommodation. At European level, it has also been shown to be destructively destructive. It is all the more gratifying now that one has swung in because one has noticed that one can only work together in Europe and find constructive solutions, because last week the mass inflow directive was also activated with the consent of Austria. This is both historical and very welcome, because it does not mean that people who have fled Ukraine have to take long-term asylum procedures, but that they immediately receive protection status in the EU, access to the labour market, school, health insurance and social services. Because we're badly positioned, the government needs as much help as it can get. This starts with the accommodation. As the Court of Auditors has said critically, we are in a very poor position, but unfortunately also as regards the accommodation of unaccompanied minor refugees. Many children have suffered in recent years, and – I have often discussed this with the Minister – the situation has improved far too slowly. But now, when I hear from the chancellor, when I hear that the Commissioner speaks of the danger of trafficking in human beings – and Save the Children now goes out of 800 000 children, many under 14 years of age, many unaccompanied – I am going to answer: We could also form safe corridors to Austria and rescue children directly from the neighbouring country before they are further in danger. That would be a concrete help to the most vulnerable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If people were here, they would be promised help quickly and unbureaucratically. In a humanitarian emergency, Rasch means not within weeks, but days, and in this regard we are slowly slowing down. We need to implement the directive by means of regulation in the main committee. What is it that does not happen every day, every hour? – Protection seekers come to Austria, thousands a day, and there is no official registration. There is no regulation as to how they come into basic supply. The next point: You're not insured. They sit around, partially wounded – physically or mentally – and have no access to medical care. That means we have to adopt this regulation very quickly in the main committee in order to enable unbureaucratic assistance. If the members of the government speak, I would like to remind you of one thing – the Minister of the Interior has said: “We need rapid and unbureaucratic assistance for Ukrainian war refugees, as it does not help if we involve third-country nationals.” I'm trying not to confuse you here: It is clear from the directive that the person who has already received asylum in Ukraine is also taking up the faster procedure here, that is probably also Afghans, Syrians and people who have already been in Her life as a refugee is recognized and now she has to flee again. You also have to enjoy this protection here. Let this confusion, this hard edge, that is simply not worthy of the whole debate! We have an inconceivable humanitarian emergency situation here. It's no time for playing games with words, just act – that's why you have enough to do and are used up! Thank civil society wherever it jumps, and take it with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7649	Mr Ralph Schalmeiner is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7673	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Also from my side to the new Minister Johannes Rauchein's warm welcome – a warm welcome here at the National Council, a warm welcome on the great stage of federal politics. Thank you also for the speech – my respect now! This announcement of policy over the next few months and years has been a good statement and makes me look very optimistic about the next few months and years. I would also like to start with a quote because today's quotations have already fallen: May you live in interesting times. – That’s actually a curse, but I think it’s just the work of a health and social minister at the time of the pandemic. In Austria, we have a system in which many topics have remained for decades, including social-democratic responsibility. I always find this quite exciting when a little bit of a child-moving happens as it is today when you sit down and say: Well, actually, we have nothing to do with the major social and health problems! For years there has always been a certain amount of child care, and in this pandemic these problems are all the more evident, in this pandemic, which also acts as a burning glass, as a focus. Here in Austria, we have not only a pandemic issue, that people, as we have tried to fight the pandemic, feel unfairly treated, but also that it is simply – the Minister has called it today, I believe, incomprehensible measures or incomprehensible decisions – that in recent years there has been some sort of decision that has just been incomprehensible and inappropriate for many people outside. Now and in the next weeks and months, we need to see that we restore this confidence. Before I go back to the future, these next weeks and months, I would like to take a short step, look back into the past, look at the past eleven months and take advantage of the opportunity to expressly thank Wolfgang Mückstein again. In fact, in these eleven months he has had the most likely difficult job in this country. He took over as Minister of Health in a very difficult situation in the end, he tried his best. He fought, he really worked, he worked very determinedly, but he also had to acknowledge that it was in the long run also due to a poisoned situation was not just easy to cope with. He said it himself at the press conference: It's not gonna last very long. It is not so much about the people who have threatened him, but it is also about those who have prepared this ground that such threat scenarios were possible for a minister or for a minister in that country at all. I think it would be high in time, with the words, with the diffamation, with the Fakenevs, with the announcements, with the half-truths not only here in plenary or on various demos, stop in speeches. It would be high time to disarm, to take back the words accordingly, and, as the Minister has said today, to deal with each other, to discuss with each other and to deal with each other at the same level as the Minister described today. I believe that this is a good thing for all of us, and this would also make this country a pleasure. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the coming months we have a lot more ahead, there are some challenges. The one is the pandemic, is autumn, is the topic to prepare us optimally for the autumn, the vaccination – a keyword – but of course also the question of Long Covid – colleague Holzleitner has also addressed it here today: There we are already leading in Austria and have already set a lot on the way. Now it is important not to let down and put Long Covid in the focus accordingly. The care reform has already been addressed today. In this respect, please do not forget that we also need to look at the competences again, this paragraph-15 competence distribution in the GuKG is to be looked in detail again. I think nurses can do much more. They are also trained accordingly. We should simply allow them more. It's about psychotherapy, psychologists that we should include in the ASVG, psychotherapy on a health certificate. It's about attracting general medicine. It is also about securing and improving the benefits of our health insurance system. It is also about nothing less than that of our Austrian health care at last in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense: I've noticed you're highly motivated. [[towards the Federal Minister for Smoking]] It's us too. I look forward to a good cooperation. We'll do this together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7749	Mrs Mag.a Verena Nussbaum is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e7774	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear High House! After the resignation of Minister of Health Mückstein, we now have the third Minister of Health and Social Affairs within two years. If I look at the urgent problems facing the health and, above all, the social ministers, I would like to see more consistency in both areas. We have been experiencing a pandemic for almost two years, which has put all of our lives on the head, and I expect you, Federal Minister, to be active, above all, as a Social Minister and as a Care Minister, and hope that you will be yours Government colleagues are not left alone as they are currently looking forward to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government announced a major care reform at the beginning of the government period. This has been mentioned again and again today, but de facto is not present. Mr Kogler has today mentioned the so-called building blocks of the care reform, the community and palliative and hospice services. These are rather building blocks and this is a little planless and uncoordinated, just as it has unfortunately always been with this Federal Government in the health and social field over the past two years. That would be like saying we have basement tiles and roof tiles, but the whole plan for the house care reform is not there at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How does it look in practice? – Closed stations and unoccupied beds because of lack of staff already belong to everyday life. Likewise, the shouts and protests of the nursing forces are getting louder and it is now time to put action. The care profession needs to become more attractive again in order to stop the flight of the nursing staff to other areas and also to make other people long for a qualified training in care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This could be achieved, for example, by means of a training fee, the same as with police students. The care is female, so it gives the impression: Is women's work worth less? In addition, the care sector urgently needs a reduction in normal working time, with full pay compensation of course, so that the care workers are relieved and protected from burn-out, because the enormous workload and the low staff key can hardly be worked in full-time. Access to the heavy work board must also be made possible immediately. It was only during the last plenary session that it was decided that the judicial guards would be included in the heavy-work pension scheme – this professional group is also mainly male. Again, the suspicion is raised: Is women's work worth less? We urgently need a uniform care system in all federal states and a care guarantee fund from which all care services can be financed. Proposing financing: The billion euros from the Köst reduction would be very suitable to be invested in care. However, I would also like to address the issue of health and social affairs with regard to the Russian war of attacks on Ukraine and, as SPÖ spokesperson for people with disabilities, I would also like to draw attention to the situation for people with disabilities in Ukraine. It is necessary to ensure that these people do not remain in facilities without care and continue to be provided with vital goods and medicines. These people must not be forgotten here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you yourself have recognized that there is a lot to do and that there is a lot to do. There are great tasks ahead of you. I wish you all the best and hope for a good cooperation. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8003	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8027	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! I would like to begin by submitting a motion for a resolution, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues on ‘further solidarity and support for Ukraine’, as part of the debate on agenda item 1: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG-NR on the occasion of the current crisis between Russia and Ukraine. This request has been made to all of you and has also been distributed in the Chamber, so I would simply sum it up briefly now. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for European Affairs, is called upon to continue to work hard for the immediate cessation of Russia's attacks and the immediate and complete withdrawal of the troops who are illegally residing in Ukraine, as well as the restoration of full sovereignty and territorial integrity in Ukraine. It also concerns the provision of humanitarian assistance, the provision of corridors, safe access to the civil society concerned, the population and ensuring the escape of women and children without delay, setting up aid corridors, protecting women and girls also on the run, supporting multilateral and bilateral initiatives leading to military de-escalation and the resumption of negotiations between Ukraine and Moscow. It is about imposing appropriate further measures of a political, economic and financial nature at EU level and about comprehensive sanctions. It is also important to include Belarus in the sanctions and to act in such a way that there can be no bypass structures. Measures at EU level are to be put in place aimed at gradually reducing Russia's energy dependence and diversification of energy supply and, in the long term, at transition to renewable energy. . I would like to bring this request with me. Now I come to my real speech. Thirteen days ago, this war began in Europe and we were sitting here together at that time. I noticed a mood in which my seating neighbor said: I'd rather go home to my daughter now. I myself felt extremely unwell and we were all actually emotionally incredibly touched by what was happening there. The more it shocks me now, what was done today in this session from what was not even two weeks ago, ten days ago. The mood we had at the time was afraid, that was a close of the shoulder between all, it was an ambiguity where we are going now. After two weeks of war, which we have in front of our doorstep, the political party – and several political groups – is being used in a polar way, and I think this is terrifying. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We see dying children, we see pictures of dead civilians on the edge of the street – you know all the pictures from the air protection bunkers. We know that if NATO intervened there, we would have a world war. However, this world war is already taking place now, but it is a cold world war that is taking place there. We're somewhere in the middle and I think it's polemic and maybe you can save yourself your button production affinity and use this energy for something else, for something completely different! [[towards FPÖ]] This is not about a NATO accession debate, about a long-awaited neutrality debate, we are not playing Wag-the-Dog here and are turning it off from anything, but it is about failure of the last decades. These failures have led to generations of previous generations, and we all have nothing to do with that. I'm not going to blame anyone here party-politically. It was failure and it was a naïve pacifism that brought Europe into the situation we are now on the whole continent. I have to give Beate Meinl-Reisinger the right thing: We are now in a situation that we need to do together, and we will need ways to do this, and we will need an shoulder closure and neutrality to do so. We will continue to commit ourselves to neutrality, but neutrality does not mean simply to watch when human rights are violated when people are killed and extorted – that is not neutrality! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the NEOS and the Agg. Ribo.]] The Latin proverb has often been: Si fish pacem, para bellum. If you want peace, prepare the war. – Then we also have to consider: What are we doing as a European Union? What are we doing in this situation now? – This is a Window of Opportunity, in which we are now standing, with all still touched. What are we doing now? – We will now have to make an shoulder closure. I'll be right on the second point, our security architecture: We need builders, architects of this security architecture, statics and statics. This can only be politicians who think European-political. That's where we have to think of the Western Balkans. – Karoline Edtstadler has made a very brilliant TV appearance, and you have to say that without party-political backgrounds. It is absolutely necessary for us to give these six countries, which have been working for decades, a realistic perspective in the EU, and also to signal Ukraine that they can, of course, seek to join the EU, but it will be a long way forward. Some of these six countries on the Western Balkans have already delivered incredible ones. Now we have the opportunity, if we all work together, I really expect all the political groups, including Mrs Rendi-Wagner – I do not think this instrumentalisation of the subject – to work on a close-up of all political groups, that we are now building a security architecture in Europe, that we are developing into a defence union, a security union in which all countries can be involved. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with NATO, on the contrary, it has to do with making ourselves self-evident that we ourselves are developing a strength here on the continent that we are not dependent on other players. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and NEOS as well as the Abg. Ribo.]] Last but not least: What is the purpose of this war? – The war is an attack on us all, it is an attack on our way to live, it is an attack on democracy, it is an attack on our Western world, it is an attack on the spirit of freedom. We cannot simply leave this attack on the free world. I brought two pictures here. My husband and I have decided that we should take up a family, and since the weekend this family lives with us at home. I now have a seven-year-old in my house who has a little sister – Anna is a year old and Maksym is seven years old – and he has said he wants to paint a picture of me. This is a picture, which is: [[keeping a child drawing in height]] No was! And I told him: Let me say: What are you missing from home? – This Bub misses his own bed, misses his toys, misses his family, his grandparents, his aunt and his cousins. [[Keeping a child drawing in height]] Maksym's watching today, I said I'm going to show his drawings. He'll probably learn German, he doesn't understand what I'm saying yet, but Maksym now knows one thing: He knows that he and his family do not stand alone, but that we let them live with us as Austria, that they have received them, that he has a chance here, and that here are people who agree that there is peace in Ukraine, that the situation calms down. And he knows we don't look away. This is very important to me – Mr Kickl is no longer here –: We don't want to look away and we don't want to make it a political field, but we want children like Maksym and Anna and all the others who are on their way, know that Austria was there, Austria has done the best in the sense of its neutrality, but it has taken a role, and that's the role that we take in these families. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] On the weekend they arrived, a son of a friend of theirs was shot in the car, a five-year-old. Pawlo has not managed to get here because the corridors were not free because the civilian population was shot. That does something in the lives of families, that does something in our lives. I believe that what is quite, very essential, when we now look at what our path can be, as Europe, as Austria, to deal with it: Stop with this Nato button or other world! Yeah, please, just go somewhere! It's not worth it now. The only value we now have is to say: We are open, we are committed to neutrality. - No one doubted that. That was supposed to be. That didn't doubt our security spokesman or anyone else. [[Call the FPÖ:The Nehammer!]] Never, that was assumed. [[Abg. Belakovich:... OTS sent out!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Check the “press hour” in the TV library!]] – Unfortunately, I understand you so hard. What I've experienced now is a wave of helpfulness. We've given you dozens of apartments. And what I'd like to say: A great deal of thanks to all these civil organizations, to all those who have taken up their best. I am proud of this Austria – an Austria on the side of international humanitarian law. An Austria that does not misunderstand its neutrality, however, an Austria that behaves militaryly neutral, but has a value neutrality, an Austria that itself claims to be an architect of this new world – we must do so together. And I miss that. That was so two weeks ago, and I would like to have that again, namely determination, clarity and that we live these attacks in our way, on our democracy together – together! -vert it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I would like to ask the FPÖ here quite clearly: In this case, please be just loyal and try to let go of this populism, this capitalist, KGB communist approach, in the sense of human rights, in the sense of these poor children who come here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... if you're talking about such a smear...!]] Leave it! Yeah, that's right. - Thank you many times. Thank you for the time. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] [[18:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8255	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8282	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I put to you a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request was necessary due to the neutrality debate which was set up by Chancellor Nehammer at the front – completely superfluously, and in such a situation in which we are in Europe, also very delicate. He rowed back, said she wasn't in the debate. Its statement, which was made a few hours ago, has proved that it is still a debate, because, in all its commitment to neutrality, even now by the previous speaker Jeitler-Cincelli, it is noted that it does not understand the neutrality and content and the mandate of neutrality, and that the Chancellor also does not understand the role and the task assigned to him by neutrality. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We have a federal constitution law of 26. ==References====External links==* Official website We have commitments from this: the constant claim of Austria's independence externally, no accession to military alliances, no establishment of military bases, no foreign troops in Austria. In times of peace, it commits us to build a defensive state defense, which we have indeed neglected, but the Freedom Party has always demanded. In the case of war, it commits non-participation in the war and in military conflicts – which does not mean that one has no opinion, no position and no humanitarian aid. This can, of course, be allowed to take part in wars, but not in active participation in wars, in one way or another, differentiated viewpoints, and in the other, a reticent rhetoric. Unfortunately, our Federal Government is not capable of both. One can only exercise neutrality, the mediating diplomatic function which would result and was so appreciated for Austria if one is willing not only to take one-sided party but also the role of the EU, of the West. and the Nato. One cannot talk about bringing Russia to the negotiating table, and, as we all want, that the weapons should rest, but at the same time support the EU and Brussels when they agree to the Ukraine accession negotiations. He would have to distance himself from this, and unnecessary insults, historical half-truths, provocations, that is, simply conflict-provoking rhetoric, are to be omitted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] It must also safeguard the interests of the Austrian population. He completely forgets that. He must also support us in terms of security policy and, of course, economic – what he does not do. He has today of: “Building bridges”, dialogue is offered, he even calls for dialogue. - Well, then it'll work. That's nothing more. That's over! We no longer have an intermediary function, because it is not associated with such a party. The intermediaries are now Turkey and China – a pity for the chance! – they now keep these, and they also keep the interests of their country and their population better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8432	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Bedrana Ribo has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8457	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today, at the speaker's desk, we have often been indignant about what this government has not done or what mistakes this government has made. And those who were very loud here – clamp on: SPÖ, to clamp –, have held the responsibility for a very long time, have also had the opportunity to make it better and different for a very long time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] In the care, for example: The SPÖ was responsible for care for a very long time, years, if not decades, and one has watched how a system coincides, how people break up. [[further calls to the SPÖ]] But then here you go and ask yourself: How can that be, how is that possible?, is not credible. - I'm telling you: You've allowed it. You were the ones who made this possible. You have contributed deterioration in many areas of social policy – and yes, it is exactly this SPÖ, because I know that many of you have been here for a very long time, even many of you have partly contributed all the decisions – so here to ask: How can all of this happen?, is simply not credible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are already talking about what this government has not done, please take the time to talk about what this government has done, in addition to a pandemic that has greatly influenced all our actions and that is still there, because the pandemic is still not over. What did we do? What do the Greens have, what did the coalition partner do with us? – climate ticket: around one euro per day across Austria; tax reform, eco-social tax reform: the burden on those who really need it; increasing emergency aid; increasing the minimum pension ; [[Call the SPÖ: Abfalls!]] cost compensation; Community nursing; increasing the female budget; Increase development aid and many million euros to bridge the pandemic. [[Call the SPÖ: Abfalls! Retirement fees!]] – Yes, yelling out loud does not help either! You don't want to hear your own conscience in any way, but the screaming doesn't help. Is that enough? - No, of course that's not enough. Need more? – Well, it takes more, but to say it to foreigners German: We haven't finished yet. We're still here. Other challenges are not so small, especially in social policy. I mean, we write the year 2022. We have war in Europe. People are afraid, even the people in Austria are afraid. Rightly, they are afraid of the future, they are afraid that they cannot pay the electricity bill or the rent. They're afraid they'll lose their job. They are afraid that the money – we all know how expensive everything has become – will not last until the end of the month. These are fears that we must take seriously. Unfortunately, the new Minister of Health is not here now, he will be required, but of course he can count on our support. [[call to the FPÖ]] I hope that all the other parties will be very supportive. On the subject of care, I would like to say a few words. Care is, of course, one of the biggest challenges of the present time. We are aware of the problems in care, although they are very complex, although they concern a lot of different levels. Dear people in care! We have the care, we have the caregivers, we have the caregivers, we have not forgotten all of you. We work with high pressure on further improvement steps and stay there. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Wolfgang Mückstein once again. Dear Wolfgang, you did a good job. You did not have a simple job. Thank you again for your commitment, for your work. Dear new Minister of Health, who is unfortunately not here at the moment, but in principle already here! I wish you all the best, much strength and courage for the new work, and of course I also look forward to the good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8527	Mrs Fiona Fionadier came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8548	Mr President. High house! Appreciate members of the government! Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Minister Rauch! I very much wanted to welcome him personally, but would like to thank Wolfgang Mückstein at this point and wish him all the best for his further journey. It is truly not easy to take over the role of the Minister of Social and Health in times of war, in times of pandemic and in this great place. I wish the Minister that he is strong enough to do all of this. That is why I come to the most important concerns. He mentioned it in his opening speech: the care. The important care reform was supposedly already finished in the drawer when Minister Anschober resigned. I'm afraid he took the key to this load, because nothing has been promoted to this day. The fact that the implementation of a care reform poses such a great ministry is logical, and the cross-sectional matter between health and social matters is certainly challenging. However, I do not allow the permanent debate on Corona to continue. The fact that we have a problem in the care sector was known long before the crisis, Corona has only strengthened the problem. This government attaches importance to care at least on paper. This can be seen by your own department in this department. But now it has to be proved. The Minister now has the opportunity to address this supposedly completed reform and to sort out the results so far and lead to a real success. Benefits Please give me this chance! We have many legislative instruments which were urgently and shortly before the deadline was extended, such as the biosimilar regulation and the extension of the price band. Please bring in a new access and use your political-systemic understanding: deliver timely negotiations, timely billing, and not all on the day of the decisive plenary session, especially when it comes to issues such as the price band regulation, because they affect not only Austria as a pharmaceutical location, but also the security of supply with medicines. For the pandemic, the Minister can't do anything, but many delayed operations have shown us how big the differences in the system for patients are, and now he comes to the handcushion to present something so that it doesn't happen anymore. Klubobfrau Maurer and Vice-Chancellor Kogler today stressed that summer should not be slept again. At least two summers have not been used by this government to make arrangements for a fall or mutations in autumn. [[Vice chancellor Kogler shakes his head.]] It is also the responsibility of the Minister to coordinate this. Since Corona everything has been all about Long Covid. Yes, it must not be underestimated, but health is so much more. Rare diseases must also be brought to the fore. Diagnostics, treatment and reimbursement of treatment costs are important aspects. I would also like to mention women's health on the International Women's Day. The National Action Plan on Women's Health needs to be updated after five years and implemented, much more importantly. People with chronic diseases need to be better cared for. The child and youth psychiatry is confronted with the triads that were feared during the corona crisis. There, children and young people need support and a good reception network. Last, but not least my heart theme: People with disabilities. This ministry is also concerned with this, even if there is no own name for it. Whether it is about education, including the labour market, national accessibility in all areas, or about personal assistance so necessary for a self-determined life: I expect the Minister to put himself in a decisive position. Inclusive education can lay the foundation stone that we live and act more openly as a society without prejudice. The NAP disability lies in the waiting loop and waits patiently for its publication. Instead, we are waiting for implementation. I see the Minister responsible for ensuring that in 2030 we no longer need NAP because we have learned to think and live inclusively within the next eight years. Wage instead of pocket money is also a winged word that always pops up somewhere but never really gets implemented. Especially as a social minister, Minister Rauch must also be concerned, and I expect a timely implementation of already good models that are at the table because inclusion is a human right. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kucharovich.]] Finally, I would like to congratulate the new Minister on his office. I am building on good cooperation and on his consensual words from the speech of entry, but above all on his permanence, so that we can finally complete the open construction sites; I would like to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8627	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8652	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! For two years, our country, Europe, and actually the whole world have been headed by a virus. Corona still has us firmly under control today. It has not yet been mentioned: We report 45 deaths and another 31,000 new infections, and these numbers and the associated fates of people must not leave us cold. We see, it's not over, it's not over, unfortunately nothing. And we're in horrendous effects of the pandemic with these terrible figures that we hear every day. Unfortunately, in today's declaration of government, little to nothing has happened to the most acute issues. The only one who has made it the subject is the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, who today is praised. The rest has not said anything about this, for example, high unemployment. People are unemployed. What do you do about it? Rent, food prices, heating, petrol prices explode and many people are at risk of poverty. Women, children and men live in poverty in one of the richest countries in the world, while the few rich who exist are getting richer and richer. And we don't listen to that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are you doing to combat poverty? What are you doing to reduce price explosions? What are you doing? Your answers: Single payments, alms. Where is the maintenance guarantee that has been promised? Where are labour market programmes? Estimated government members! Beautiful weather speeches and thanks to the International We don't want women's day and we don't want to hear it anymore. We women want self-determination in all areas of life. This means equality in the labour market and everywhere else. So get up the incomes, get up with the wages and salaries for the women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what we hear from you, dear government, is: Something happened! and: Something's happened again!Use custom fonts; Retirements of ministers, resignations of German Chancellors; the Chancellor's Party under suspicion of corruption, an own investigation committee was re-installed; change in the government, three German Chancellors within the shortest time, and now the third Minister of Health and Social Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] Minister Rauch, I wish you every good thing at this point in the sense of the people in Austria, so that you can make it better for you to endure longer. I really wish you a lot of strength for that. And now, ladies and gentlemen, something has happened again: Former and active politicians shudder at neutrality. How cynical and how inconceivable is that? After all, quite honestly: Whoever does this did not understand the federal constitution, although it is advocating it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, those who shake at neutrality leave the Austrian path of active peace policy. I honestly say to you that this performance of politics is not only left to wish for, it is frightening and it creates uncertainty. To question neutrality we will never accept as social democracy and not accept it at all – quite the contrary! We demand real and comprehensive active neutrality policy and real humanitarian aid with all due respect. With the permission to call helmets or vests of protection as humanitarian means and also to transfer them to the war zone under this title, that is unacceptable – simply unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We demand real peace policy. That means: Let Austria's tradition live up – not just because of tradition – you offer peace negotiations on Austrian soil, invite you to do so! Do everything possible in the field of diplomacy. Unfortunately, we are reading and listening very little. There's really a lot to do. We as Austria are obliged to make a contribution to peace for all. That means negotiating, negotiating, negotiating, being in solidarity with the Ukrainian population, being in solidarity with all refugees, being in solidarity with Russians who are most bravely resisting in their own country. We are obliged, without helping if and but, to provide real humanitarian assistance, to welcome refugees in Austria and to secure a ceasefire through peace-making negotiations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to ask you for broad support because it concerns people because it concerns human rights because it is about aid. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, free to Bertha von Suttner: Down with the weapons, down with peace for everyone! For this to happen, always neutral Austria must stand up. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8845	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8872	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to suggest that we liberals have this war, which is currently in Europe rages, rejects the heftiest. We are also prepared at European level for solidarity and we also want to assist the country that is in this great conflict, of course, but we also want to take those steps that make our country more sovereign and operational. We want the Federal Government to develop an independent Austrian line with regard to Austria, its neutrality and the possibilities that arise from this neutrality. On the government bank – all who are still here, I welcome you – there are no longer many ÖVPs left, you, Mrs State Secretary, and therefore I turn to you, Mr Klubobmann, you will certainly continue to say it to those in the ÖVP who have something to say. [[towards State Secretary Plasolm]] We have a few things to discuss with you, concerning the statements made by your Federal Chancellor in public. We decided unanimously in the last National Security Council – you were there, along with many other colleagues – to revitalize the comprehensive state defense, namely the spiritual, the civilian, the economic and the military. I am responsible for the military, not only in my club, but also for the National Council as chairman of the National Defence Committee. Your Federal Chancellor has made the statement that the Austrian federal army needs a budget of at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product, however high it may be. I therefore have two motions for resolutions to make sure that you do something in your government work. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Resolution of the Members Herbert Kickl, colleagues on “Re-introduction of the 8 months of basic military service in model 6 + 2 months” "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council an amendment to the Wehrgesetz, which is the reintroduction of 8 months of ground defense service, in proven model 6 + 2 months, includes, so as to allow for mandatory military exercises to be fully re-established.’ Ladies and gentlemen! The budgetary situation of the Federal Army is known to us. The government has shown its determination and has mentioned this figure of 1 percent. We want to help her reach this goal. We have been told by the events in Ukraine that it is important that every state is equipped; and that the Austrian federal army has dramatic gaps in terms of its equipment, in terms of its possibilities, is old known. There is the report “Our Army 2030”, which clearly shows that the abilities of the Austrian federal army go against zero by 2030. We will no longer be able to fulfil our obligations in respect of all the capabilities required by the Federal Government. The second area of the first motion for a resolution concerns central government reform. Mr Klubobmann, we think this central reform is completely useless. [[towards Abg. Woeinger]] You should also be interested in this suggestion, because your party is also in need of arguments in order to act against accusations of corruption. In order not to be exposed to the accusation that the central office is being reformed in the Austrian federal army only in order to color it black or turquoise, you should stop this central reform. The consequences of the black-and-turquoise coloring, just as your colleague Strasser had already done at the beginning of the 2000s – I was at that time also as a Member – and the whole Republic is still working today to eliminate the consequences of this infarction. Mr President, you can also track the corruption cases in your party in the Committee of Inquiry. This is an issue that we will be submitting with an additional request. We believe that this leadership reform, which is being tried to implement, is completely useless in the military field. Too large leadership teams are being set up, and complication of all communication in the military sector is also being started. We ask you to pass it on to the competent authorities so that we can rethink this central reform, stop it and re-establish a militaryly useful leadership structure in the Austrian Federal Army.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8972	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e8987	The second request concerns the model six plus two. [[The microphone's not on.]] – Mr President?- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9011	Unfortunately, it didn't work.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9027	I take note of that, Mr President. The second request concerns the model six plus two. It must be clear to all of us that it is unbearable to put groundmen at the border. After this shooting incident, it should be clear to all of us that only fully trained soldiers can be considered with such a difficult task, that is why we consider it necessary, also for the constitutional principle that the federal army on the Militation is being built up to be fair, finally to reintroduce the compulsory militias. We hope - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9053	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not hesitate to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9068	We hope that you will give your consent to all these requests. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:19]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9309	The word is now known as Mag. Jörg Leichtfried. I must add that both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9339	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr. Health and Social Ministers! [[Federal Minister Rauch talks to the Abg. Maurer.]] – Dear Minister of Health and Social Affairs, I really wanted to wish you all the best for your work, the country really needs it. So all the good and really good luck! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions and transmissions, which are still on the wide web! The situation of the people in Ukraine, in this war of attack, is staggering dramatically. The reports we receive are terrible. There are not only military facilities, but also houses, schools, hospitals in rubble and ashes, and this really makes no sense. In many cities, food and water are becoming scarce. That means people need help on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree: This help on the ground must be provided by Austria! This assistance on the ground is necessary and our task is to provide this help! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My request to the Federal Government: Ladies and gentlemen, let us intensify this help! I think that's help in the right place at the right time. But we also need to think and take into account that many people can flee to us and probably many people will flee to us. This also needs preparation, it does not just need preparation in the area of quarters, no, it needs much more, it needs preparation for social services, preparation for medical care, preparation for the labour market, preparation for the education system. These are things that are going on, yes, that's right, and I also want to thank those people, those incredibly many people in Austria who are thinking now, I'm taking that privately, I'm organizing, I'm trying to help, I'm doing it because I can, I'm either delivering aids or I'm taking up families at home. Thank you so much! In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good thing that we are so selfless in helping. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thanks also to those who always bear the main burden in these situations, these are the communities and the federal states that actually have to take up the main organization for these things. But I must also say, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Federal Government, that there is also a need for central commitment. It also needs federal commitment as regards the development in Austria itself. It needs coordination, it needs federal resources and it probably also needs material federal support. That's your job, and I'm really asking you now, I'm asking you to do that. It is necessary that we work together for the people who come to us and need help. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this context, however, I would also like to address a subject which has been very ambivalently discussed in this House today. I believe that in a war situation so close to us, we need help, support, but it also needs our active, committed neutrality if we want to have the chance to pursue peace-making diplomacy. I think it is worth fighting for this opportunity to exist – that we are neutral, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not understand some of the attacks here today – not only here today – on this neutrality. Neutrality does not mean that we are neutral in sight. This does not mean that we accept that international law is being broken. This does not mean that we accept the right of the stronger and not the strength of the right. This is not the neutrality I imagine. This is not the Austrian neutrality either. But what I do not understand is that a debate on neutrality has now begun, also here in this House, and suddenly we are held that there is this debate. [[Abg. Sobotka: You started it! Jörg, you started it! That must not be true!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, if someone wants to complain about someone – and this applies to everyone here – please at the ÖVP. It was ÖVP politician Khol who started this debate. It was the spokesperson who continued it, and it was the chancellor who said that this neutrality was forced upon us. [[Abg. Sobotka: Vranitzky has demanded a European army!]] [[Abg. Sobotka: Vranitzky--!]] This is not the access of social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sobotka: Vranitzky has demanded...!]] We are an essential part of our state, ladies and gentlemen, for neutrality in Austria, in order to clarify this once and for all. [[Abg. Sobotka: Vranitzky has demanded a European army!]] I would like to address another issue. [[Abg. Sobotka: Heast, you don't believe what you're talking about!]] – Mr President, once again I have been exalted. This is something new – ladies and gentlemen, if you were to see him now. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Sobotka.]] But I would like to say something: In the “time in the picture” it was reported that Russia may threaten Europe with a complete stopover of gas supplies. With us, we now know, 80 percent of the gas comes from Russia, and our stores are currently only 15 percent full. Although Mrs Schramböck says: That's meat because we have big memory!, I already think that 15 percent is also little of large storage, especially if it only lasts until the end of March. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It must be ensured that in Austria gas supply remains sufficient to ensure that we have sufficient gas. It is therefore necessary to act in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. We can discuss a great deal about long-term action, with all of us agreeing on getting away from the gas to renewable energy. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] That is where, I think, there are no contradictions in this house. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] But we also need a robust short-term strategy to get more gas – others do. [[Abg. Sobotka: He's a matter politician, the Jörg!]] Do you know what the Germans are doing? – They have already invested 1.5 billion euros to buy gas. What does Austria do? – Austria sends Ms. Köstinger on trips. You can do too, but I think what the Germans do is more efficient. I can assure you, they will unfortunately have more gas and faster gas than we do. And that is something that is also in your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sobotka: They extend the nuclear power plants, the Germans!]] The Germans are still doing something – the President is no longer at all to calm down: [[Abg. Sobotka: If you were ever as calm as I am, it would be good!]] In May, a gas supply law will enter into force. This will enter into force on May. What's going on with us? . We are now discussing it, it is announced for May and will probably enter into force in December, which is too late. That too is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Even there you have to make sure it's faster, that it's more effective and that you finally do your job! That would be high in time in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sobotka: A little emotion! A little emotion!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If it comes so far that the blast furnaces are locked up and it gets cold in the apartments, it's too late. Finally, understand that politics is not a show, but that politics is hard work, and act accordingly, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9593	Mr Mag. Slightly, I assume the speech is not yet over, as you wanted to make a request.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9635	Mr President, thank you very much. As far as neutrality is concerned, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP, if you see that as well, you can vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9744	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs. Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9768	Ladies and gentlemen. Because of show! Dear SPÖ, you are really the only ones who today set up this neutrality debate in the House and then get excited that the others do not discuss it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then you make a request and you'll say we didn't decide because you wanted to discuss it. – Nobody knows it at all. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And you're wondering why you're doing that. I have now really considered what might be the reason for this – apart from that, it is also wrong. There is something – I don't know – that the Austrian government party would call this into question. I haven't heard about it anywhere. With you? - No, I don't. [[towards ÖVP]] Not with us. So wrong! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, They will know that the foundations of neutrality are constitutionally enshrined in the Neutrality Act in Austria – I have been happy to express it to you for reading – and also through bilateral notifications between Austria and all the states with which these diplomatic relations existed at the time. That is to say, neutrality naturally, and still undisputed first, does not involve any interference in or participation in wars – no na net –, second, no accession to military alliances – keyword Nato: no one but SPÖ – and thirdly no establishment of “military support points of foreign states” in the Austrian field – so Conlusio: It's either stubbornness or, I guess, it's something else. I suspect that the SPÖ has no supporter to complain about what we are not doing in this Ukraine crisis, so it is inventing something against which it could be, which we are not discussing at all here. [[Abg. Kollross: Yes, what you don't do!]] It's just absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9830	Mr Klubobmann's speech is August Wöginger. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e9859	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have listened to and listened to the debate today for the most part – very attentively – and it is, in fact, already remarkable what is included in such a declaration of government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kaniak.]] I admit that we have two topics to deal with: firstly, the new Minister of Health and Social Affairs, who was praised today – welcome, dear Johannes Rauch! – and, secondly, of course, such a crisis situation, which we have had on European soil for 13 days – I would like to stress – where a country was really attacked. Now, of course, you can pack a lot in there. I'm in the house for 19 years now, and you're the ninth Minister of Social Affairs. I stress the fact that health and social affairs were not always united in a ministry. Two of us have had in the transition period 2017, which I do not expect now, so we have had nine in the last 19 years, so to speak. I do not understand a debate here because Austria is a social welfare state and the social ministers have been set up by the various parties, mostly by the Social Democracy, also by the FPÖ and now by the Greens. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have somehow failed to achieve this since Grete Rehor, but we have always actively participated in social policy. But what I don't understand is that you're making mutual debt allocations, which has gone well or not well. I can say: In the last 19 years, a good social policy has always been made. Why? - Because otherwise we don't have the status we have today. Austria is a social welfare state and, I believe, one should be very proud. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Whoever did something exactly now and didn't do it, that's not what it's all about. However, I would like to say one thing, because today, too, social democracy has fallen so far over the Green Social Ministers and the Federal Government, which does not work and which has not been done: In the last two years, more social policy has been pursued than in ten years of Social Democratic Social Minister. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what you can write behind your ears. You can write this down. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] We raised pensions above average. [[In the direction of SPÖ:]] If you're grinning and laughing in your ranks, you know it's exactly that, because we've raised pensions a lot higher than you'd ever imagined. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have done much more in the area of poverty reduction in the last two years – which is also right. We have made a discharge that we have never brought with you, because other things always mattered to you, for if we have said: We want to relieve, then on the other hand we needed 5 or 10 billion euros for the railway. It was some of the only horrific deals that had to be made there. You have to call it by name. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] We respond, we relieve people, and we make a social policy that comes to the citizens, especially those who really need it. That's what this federal government is doing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the topic of care: I take one who died too early – this is Rudi Hundstorfer. This has been the only one who has really tried to find out who has had the expertise, the expertise and the real effort to carry on in this field. [[Abg. Loacker: Know of yourself!]] That's not easy, Minister. You know the situation as a member of a state government. Care is a difficult task in their allocation of competence, because of course the Federal Government has responsibilities – but above all the countries and the municipalities, and many social ministers have failed to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] But today to say: Nothing has happened in the care! . We have decided on the Community programme, we have installed the care training fund with EUR 50 million and we currently have 13 000 people in training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] 13 000 people we urgently need are in training for care professions. We have – by the way – to deal with a pandemic for two years, and now we have a war on European soil for 14 days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] So if you go here and say that this federal government does not work day and night for the population, also the social policy points concerning, even as regards care, then this is simply not right, and I reject that. I thank you for bringing these things together. Mr Minister, you have my full support as far as the care points are concerned. This is about staff, it is about training and professional law, it is about caring families, and it is about financing for the next few years as a whole. We will do this together this year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to the artificial excitement around the neutrality debate: Just the SPÖ would have to know that it can always be that someone in their own ranks says something that the party's head doesn't gill or what the party's head actually sees differently. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what you'd have to know. Doskozil explains the world to you every day, and then you say: No, that's not what it means! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] We very much appreciate our former President Andreas Khol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] He has expressed an opinion, but it is not ours. The Federal Party observer, the Federal Chancellor, has kept this quite clearly and clearly, and now I do it again as a clubman, maybe you will believe it then: Austria was neutral, Austria is neutral and Austria remains neutral – so that that is also said from this pulpit. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stöger and Mr Hafenecker.]] But one thing I would like to mention, also in the past, is: Indeed, it is said – that has meant Ofenauer – that we must also be able to defend ourselves with all that is available to us. That is the second sentence in the Constitution, and yes, we have to do something about it. There was your interlocutors, even at the National Security Council, very quickly. [[towards SPÖ]] I would just ask you to think back to the year 2004, in which you did not rule – there you were also in the opposition: “Here is your pension!”, “Socialfighter”! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] Do you know what you did? – To play out investments in the federal army against social policy and to catch people to get voters! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] That's what you did, and that's not even been so long ago. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Therefore, if the change of mind has taken place in social democracy, I should be right, it is only the question whether the former Minister of Defence Doskozil sees it that way. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We'll see what's going to appear in the media spotlight in the next few days. Now to the FPÖ: There is a certain amount of cut between Putin and vaccination opponents. This is a cut that we also locate in the population, because those who have been most massively opposed to vaccination are even now those who say: Let him go, leave him alone! - It means Putin. [[Abg. Hauser:... a bit... reduced program...!]] By the way: Putin is not mentioned by any FPÖ member in connection with the attack war. I don't know who noticed that. A first sentence is said: One condemns this attack on Ukraine. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The name of Russian President Vladimir Putin is not mentioned in this context. It's only mentioned when you say: Yes, of course, these are also aggressions against Russia! Do you know what I'm telling you? – There people are killed, killed in a bestial way. Cities are simply bombarded. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, you have to look at the pictures, and then you are here, because you had a contract with Mr Putin and his party until last year, that you do not also point this out to the very sharpest, which, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to happen! A European country will be attacked, and FPÖ has nothing better to do than do in its past. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's all kinds of things! You can't underline the word "attack war" in an application. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] – Then explain what it is! Then put yourselves out and explain what it is! If a supremacy of three sides hits a sovereign country on European soil, what is that? I'd like to know. [[Abg. Stefan: Who doubts that? Has anyone doubted that?]] - Yes. [[Abg. Stefan: Who?]] Look, there are all those who were with the Putin themselves signed a contract and then, when Putin danced with the former FPÖ foreign minister, they were there. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You are the Putin understanding of my dear friends from the FPÖ! You are the Putin understandings, but this does not understand the rest of the population in Austria. You can believe me, she doesn't understand! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] One thing is written to you in the historical main book, because today Kickl dances with neutrality in his rumpel style manner: 1998: ‘FPÖ calls for rapid application in urgent cases NATO accession of Austria.’ At the time, this urgent matter was founded by Parliamentary Scheibner, who was later Minister of Defense. 2002: ‘Scheibner for referendum on NATO accession.’ [[Abg. Kassinger:... underground...!]] Then former powerful partyobmann Jörg Haider – who has written the speeches to Kickl for decades; evil voices once said that even he had not brought it together, but Kickl wrote it –: 20. October 1998, Resolution on ‘the opening of negotiations [...] on Austria’s accession to the NATO Treaty’. This can be found in Parliament's correspondence, that's it. [[Abg. Hauser: Controversies of truth!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Hear, hear!]] The fact that you're getting into the air every ten years with your dispute, once somewhere in the Styria and then again, that's your problem, but the Austrian population can't do it for that. This has happened on behalf of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Just turn in front of your own door! - Yeah, that's exactly what you have to say. [[Abg. Stefan: That was last-class!]] Just turn in front of your own door! Why do you think - - – I don't know you so much that you don't come together before loud screams. [[Abg. Stefan: I've never heard anything like this!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: What is it about – especially the FPÖ, but apparently also the SPÖ? To vote in favour. It's about vote-in-elections that you want to see from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] But I can tell you one thing: The time in which we are now is too serious and too dramatic to build votes out of such a situation. [[New call of the abg. Erasim.]] She's too serious! And we should all measure together that we are going here with each other, which was actually possible for the last 14 days – unfortunately not now. It's about our population. It is about the children, the women who are being expelled there in a way that we cannot blame, which we need to help, that is our humanitarian commitment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] It is our job to be here, namely, with sanctions that hurt us as well. It is necessary, however, to do that, because that is the only thing we might make the Russian President understand. That is why I appeal to do so with one another, in the sense of our people and in the sense of the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10243	For business treatment: Dr. Martin Graf. - Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10270	Mr President. Unfortunately, once again we have had to experience a spectacle or a lesson of how to throw a government party overboard without ending the parliamentaryism and the previous uses that we have lived over the past 40 years. [[Call the ÖVP:to the Rules of Procedure! That's a word report!]] These accusations are made, with more speaking time as a government party, because government members are also talking about waiting as clubman for the well-known stronger government party until the last speaker has spent the last minutes speaking time of all the other opposition parties, in order to speak with a ten-minute speech as a clubman, is last-class in this House and never to date! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The clubman's round took place at the beginning, he wasn't present, so you have to say. [[Abg. Steinacker: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: This is not a record of the Rules of Procedure!]] These uses are constantly broken, feet stepped, by the ÖVP. We no longer had the opportunity to oppose these new accusations even at a single minute's speaking time or a speech contribution. This is not all right, should be discussed in the Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10337	Are there any further statements on business treatment? - Please, Mrs. Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10361	This contribution was camouflaged and had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. Win the clubs when Register, that is the only and only task of the clubs, just as it was not agreed that there would be a round of clubs at the beginning. The ÖVP has acted here on the occasion of the International Women's Day with the vice-presidents of the club. If the Freedom Party is unable to plan its speaking time adequately, that is the only and only responsibility of the Freedom Party and certainly not of the other political groups here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10394	Are there any further statements on business treatment? – That is obviously not the case. Mr Christoph Matznetter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10427	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the contribution to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Graf was not right in two points: There is another opposition party with speaking time. Secondly, It wasn't all wrong what Klubobmann Wöginger said. He said at the beginning, I don't know. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That describes it relatively well. Mr President, is the word Chuzpe permitted? I don't think you can say that. [[Abg. Sobotka: Yes!]] – Is it permissible? Please! To have the Chuzpe alone, to produce the ÖVP as the Social Party, which has maliciously slowed down by other Social Ministers! Can you remember what it was like? Once – and that was laborious, I was involved in the negotiations – we agreed a basic guarantee on which people have a legal claim. [[Abg. Loacker: You should have done this for the farmers!]] Who killed her, the social fighters? Mr. Klubobmann! That's where we all remember. Or with regard to sacrifice for the victims: Bombarded, yes, but how about the refugee children from Syria and Afghanistan in Moria? There was nothing to feel of solidarity, of humanism, of propriety! That's what they meant in silence: No, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the topic of suffrage: He accuses democratic parties that they are campaigning for voters. You have to break that on your tongue! But what was that, to say, the children in Moria in Moria are no matter what, the main thing that matches voters!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's what you call social veins, Mr. Klubobmann? Social veins are not if one helps the EIA politician to lead the financial office, so that a qualified woman does not get that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But you have hindered us from making real progress in years of government policy. You don't have to make yourself up here and go to others. Turn in your own party and at your own door! This would be good for the ÖVP, would improve the opinion polls and would bring people something. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hauser.]] The last sentence: The ÖVP has now ruled this house over decades with the possibility to make the sidestep with the FPÖ again and again. Controlled, in every coalition – you can also ask the current coalition partner! You will also have to bear the responsibility, Mr Wöginger. [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] They were substantially responsible, you can't steal from it. We have real problems: The problem with the gas, as described earlier, is a real problem, even the pandemic was a real problem. You will be measured by this. If it works as badly as in the pandemic fight, then the blast furnaces will unfortunately, I fear, stand, and I am afraid that the population will not be able to heat, because as you have done so far unprofessionally, it is a disaster. Therefore, my request, quite formally – the hand is, I believe, made by everyone – is: Let us at least try to do this together in the crisis. The most unnecessary thing was your speech, Mr Wöinger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10513	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, for "Chuzpe" there has never been an order call, can continue to be used. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Do the clubs wish to interrupt before we enter the voting process? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mr BSc, colleagues, on 'Safety of gas supply'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Mag.a Meri Disoski, Eva Maria Holzleitner, BSc, Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues concerning “the support of women and children as special sufferers of the war in Ukraine”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[238/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the reduction of the social and economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on 'The immediate start of the commitment'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues on ‘further solidarity and support for Ukraine’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[239/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Susanne Fürst, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Yes to Neutrality – No to NATO'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on 'humanitarian aid for the people of Ukraine and the reception of refugees from Ukraine'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues on "Special Investment Package for the Austrian Federal Army and increase the Military Affairs Rule Budget to 1% of GDP to protect Austrian neutrality". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues, on 'Re-introduction of the 8 months of basic military service in model 6 + 2 months'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on ‘No to NATO accession – Yes to constantly neutrality’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:54:15]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10754	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Kaniak, colleagues, to the Health Committee for reporting on Amendment No 2227/A, a deadline until 9. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:54:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2022-03-08-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00145_d8e10786	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 2349/A(E) to 2359/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.54 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
