ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1157	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 176. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Klaus Fürlinger, Tanja Graf, Mag. Michael Hammer, Ing. Manfred Hofinger, Martina Kaufmann, MMSc BA, MMag. Dr. Agnes Totter, Bed, Doris Bures, Elisabeth Feichtinger, Bed Bed, Mag. Karin Greiner, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Kai Jan Krainer, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Sabine Schatz, Michael Seemayer, Alois Stöger, Diplômé, Mag. Selma Yildirim, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Michael Schnedlitz, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Barbara Neßler, Clemens Stammler, Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer, Dipl.-Ing. Karin Double Bauer and Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1263	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has issued the following messages: Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag.a Caroline Edtstadler by Federal Minister for Women, Family, Integration and Media MMag.a Dr.in Susanne Raab; Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Magnus Brunner, LL.M.by State Secretary Florian Tursky, MBA MSc. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1307	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1366	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 12496/J tabled at the beginning of the meeting by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues at the Federal Minister for the Interior on ‘Austria needs prosperity and security instead of EU sanctions and asylum attacks’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 11 a.m. I announce that this meeting will be held by ORF 2 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.; ORF III will forward the session in full length. I am now interrupting the sitting until 11 a.m. [[08:02:25]] ***** [[The sitting was suspended at 8.02 a.m. and resumed at 11.01 a.m.]] *****
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1419	I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. [[11:01:27]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues in the Federal Minister for the Interior on ‘Austria needs prosperity and security instead of EU sanctions and asylum attacks’ (12496/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1455	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 12496/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1694	I may ask honourable Member Klubobmann Kickl as a questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling under § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e1715	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yes, we are debating two key areas of politics today in the course of this special meeting and, I must say, also the moral failure of this black and green government and its climbers towards its own population. It is a huge betrayal that you commit to the Austrian people, in a double sense. The first betrayal concerns asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, under the responsibility of the Austrian People's Party, there are conditions in this country that put the 2015 disaster year in the shadow – and that really means something! And all of this, Minister of State, although this government, although Her predecessor, a certain Karl Nehammer, who is now allowed to play the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, promised in 2020 that there is a de facto asyl stop in Austria. – A huge betrayal of your own population! The second area concerns Austrian participation in an economic war under the command of the European Union or Nato – I think it is no longer worth keeping these two things apart, it is going to be the same – and that is a course with which this black-green government, hand in hand with the sham opposition – above all, since the Rosarotes march – takes place in the mentality of an Islamic suicide suspect. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and NEOS.]] That's the way you're doing here: It is a pleasure to be able to do damage elsewhere by doing the following: putting into the air the longest life, prosperity, economic power, industry, thousands of jobs and social security in one's own country. - That's your procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So that we don't misunderstand: I don't want to put anything in your mind, I know you're only doing it in the name of the noble, the good and, of course, in the name of the only legitimate truth; and there you have found your prophets. Angel-like figures are there your prophets who truly embodie this: a Joe Biden, a Ursula of the Leyen, a German Minister of Economic Affairs Habeck, who does not know what an insolvency is, a woman Baerbock, and, and, and. These are your prophets, they are spreading the message of these false forms, and woe to those who allow themselves to have a different opinion – we have just experienced it again – woe to this: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] He is the Devil, and he is waiting for eternal damnation! [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this in this way, because it is almost frightening, Mr Lopatka, because it is frightening in what way this EU fanaticism has taken possession of you. [[Abg. Lopatka: You are a fanatic! ... like a... on the way!]] We heard this yesterday, and I assume that this will not be much different today. In any case, it is the opposite of the basic democratic understanding you are always talking about, it is the opposite of freedom of expression, it is the opposite of open discourse, it is the opposite of tolerance, of all the things you always use for yourself and which you summarize under the super term values of the West. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: peace and freedom!]] – Mr Lopatka, you may feel addressed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also a huge betrayal of the Austrian population. But to you, Minister of the Interior, Karner: I brought you a few quotes – I think they are also well suited for the sector of the Austrian People's Party here in the house – for memory, a booster if you want to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] All these quotations came from the beginning of 2016, i.e. from a time when the memory of this asylum border tower in the minds of the population was still quite, quite awake and alive. I'm allowed to quote: Asylum applications will no longer be possible in Austria, but only at the EU's external border. Or: Everyone knows that Austria cannot take up 90,000 people again. Or: The upper limit of 37 500 is necessary to maintain social peace in this country. – All these quotations, Mr Karner, come from a lady who is not unknown to you: It is your predecessor in the Ministry of the Interior, a certain Johanna Mikl head of mindless memory, in the meantime the head of the state of Lower Austria and expert in consulting on ball dress questions. Ladies and gentlemen, all empty phrases! [[Abg. Höfinger: The whole speech has only empty phrases!]] And one has put one on it – yes, yes! – in his incomparable peacock way he said: I do not even want to wait for the maximum of 37 500, but the capacities are already exhausted! That is what he said, and at that time there were 19 000 asylum applications. The one who has so full-bodiedly poses this, now sits behind me: This is a certain Wolfgang Sobotka, who is also one in the miserable series of the failure of the ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior and who has been rewarded for thanking the party for this post on the square behind me. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Now he's doing his damage here. Now I ask you, Minister of the Interior Karner: Yeah, what's going on? We've all heard these statements now. The responsibility lies in the hands of your party. This resort has no one in your hands for as long as you are, and yet nothing of all that you have announced here has occurred. [[Call the ÖVP: You were there too!]] Yes, it won't be that Johanna Mikl-Leiter and Wolfgang Sobotka lied to their own people? Yes, is that the possibility? Or is it possible that you and your predecessors of the Austrian People's Party simply are not able to implement these things? I would call that inability, or – in order to take up a current discussion – one could also say: We have the problem that nowhere in the ranks of the ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior finds a wolf in the sheepspelt, we only have sheep in the wolfspelt! – This is how Austrian asylum policy looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: Ah, funny! You've already brought the shame five times!]] Otherwise, it can't be explained. Otherwise, it is not to be explained that according to the negative experiences of 2015 and after all the promises you made, we are now worse than then. 37 500 asylum applications, you said at the time that this is the absolute upper limit, then press the stop button, and then no more asylum applications will be accepted! – I already said: That's too much! That's crazy! Where are the 37 500 to come from, where we are only surrounded by safe countries? 37 500 are just calling out an invitation to the asylum tourists, and it costs a fortune! But at the time, they packed this up with the SPÖ. I then corrected this in my short time at the Ministry of the Interior. I've set a new target. That number was zero. All the other groups in this House have beaten me for this. One of them did it publicly and officially, the ÖVP behind my back. The rest of the story is known, and since then the number of asylums has exploded in this country. That's the problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While we've brought the numbers down, it's going up now. Today we have almost 70 000 in September, and the 80 000 Ukrainians are not yet included, which are quoted in their own statistics. While we are debating here, Minister of the Interior, hundreds of people are coming across the border: Afghans, Syrians, Indians, Pakistani, loud young men under 30. They all come in because you – and nobody else – decided not to protect our border, but to abuse our police and our soldiers on the border as escort service. You would have it in your hand to protect the border, you and no one else, and no one can take this responsibility from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While we are debating here, new asylum homes are being locked up throughout the country. This is where the interests of the own population are overrun. As a result, the whole villages are forced to be happy with hordes of young men, with the result that they have more asylum seekers there than locals. You are not worth the home rights of your own population at all. You should use it as you do for the Ukrainians' home law. While we are discussing here, together with the other political groups, you decide on a climate bonus for asylum seekers. Yes, Mr. Karner, didn't anyone tell you that was talking? This is a message that the tractors you're supposed to want to fight over are most pleased with: Austria good, 500 euros, just asylum, nothing hack! – That’s the message, and you’re still invoking it with your policy. [[Abg. Black: Mr Kickl, the climate bonus is now paid out!]] I don't understand: You yourself said: 37 500, that's the number, and then it's over! They have built into the coalition agreement an emergency, an exit pass, for exactly such cases. If the emergency situation in relation to the asylum issue breaks out, you can look for other majorities. We are at our disposal, Mr Karner, to decide with you here and today an asylum protection package in the interests of your own people and against the tractors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Susanne Prince will bring this in later. We have done it calmly for you anyway, in order not to feel too much for you in a first step, but it will still use something to punish not only tugs, but also those who can be dragged. This is the second side of the medal. If there's no one who's towed, the towers don't do a business either. [[Abg. Höfinger: The speech is also sluggish! A sluggish appearance!]] It is about exit centres, which we need quite, very urgently again. We need a regulation that prevents any transition from asylum to citizenship, and we need a state objective that Austria is not an immigration country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have the majority in here, don't cry around, but just stand up when the request comes to the vote! You know, if you don't get out of the Austrian People's Party without committing any betrayal, at least this time you'll betray the Greens and not their own people, that would be appropriate once again, the Greens, who are just waiting to make the foolship Utopia together with the SPÖ from Austria, where we all finally go to the abyss! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Then betray them instead of your own population! Now on the second issue: on sanctions and on the associated telecommunications addicts, which are currently overshadowing millions of people in this country. In fact, these sanctions mean nothing more than a huge programme of mass impoverishment and mass impoverishment, for Austria and for Europe. Now I'm telling you something: It is not a comfort for the people out there who are afraid of their work or who may have lost it, who can no longer afford the food, who do not know how to pay their rents, how to afford the fuel, how to heat and so on, for these people it is no comfort if they hear from you as yesterday: Yeah, guys, I'm glad the Russians are going much worse! Is this the future that you want to guide us into a competition that lasts longer in greater poverty? I'm afraid that's where the Russians sit on the longer branch. I am pleased that after the war our people have grown up in generations of prosperity, and I do not want to put this at risk without responsibility, just as you do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else about sanctions – has it already occurred to you? –: This is nothing but a beautiful term for something quite different. This is a beautiful term for the word economic war, and an economic war is also a war, but that sounds a bit more dramatic. They have led us into a war as a neutral country. That sounds much more aggressive, and that's it. They are actually doing the same propagandistic dyery that you accuse the Russians of when they say military special operation instead of calling it an attack war what they are doing in Ukraine. It is the same way, the same hypocrisy. I don't know if you notice. That's easy for you to think about. I think it's incredibly dishonest – I have to tell you – to tell people out there: Dear Austrians, that the prices of electricity, gas, oil, fuel and food explode and that things are getting scarce and that we have to wait forever for everyday objects, that is the price you all now have to pay for, that Ukraine defends the security of Europe or the security of Austria, that the values of the West are defended there, and that all of this, of course, as everything you claim, is alternativesless. I know, of course, that is what the single programming, which is set out by the European level, comes from the office of the Leyen, and you all continue to put it up, even yesterday in the debate, like the parrots, and then you will also be bold if you copy what the European Union tells you to do up to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is currently giving the Upper Papagei. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Putin-Troll!]] But the truth, the truth is another, just as it was another one at Corona. There you have also told of your alternativelessness, and two years later it has looked quite embarrassing for you, and in this case it will be exactly the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The truth is that there is a terrible war that threatens to escalate more every day, and it is only a matter of time until it becomes a great fire of land. This war is waged there because with the help of NATO, the US wants to expand its own power interests for years to just outside the Russian doorstep. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Putin-Sprech!]] Now I know - - - yes, Putin-Sprech, Putin-Sprech, I have waited for it, Mr. Brandstatter! [[Abg. Fireplaces: Pure Putin speech! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: Is that in the contract? Is that in the contract...?]] But then you should also be so honest, to say that then all the security advisers of the American presidents, by Jimmy Carter upward, must be all geostrategic advisers of the American presidents of the Kreml there, because they say that in their strategy papers. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Putin-Troll!]] They advise their presidents in this direction, with the aim of creating a world order in which there is only more world power, these are the Americans, and that is all subordinated. Ukraine is an essential key to this, and therefore – you can read it at Carter's advisor in 1997 – Ukraine must become a Vasa state. That's how it looks. Then say that all these people have made it to the Court of the American Presidents! I think there is you, Mr Brandstatter, and not us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces:...! So much nonsense! ...!]] Now we've arrived at a point, that's the American contribution, and now the Russian side comes: What did the Russians do? – Yes, the Russians have learned from the Americans, unfortunately, one must say in this context. They are now doing what the Americans have done, namely to intervene in military terms, if you believe that your own security interests are at risk. The Americans don't have to be on the doorstep at all. That can be somewhere in this world, thousands of miles away from the motherland, that's totally meaty. Then military intervention is performed, which means nothing but: Then war is waged. Then bombs are thrown, then there are collateral damage, then there are thousands of dead, and if you don't believe it, then take a look at the history books that are piled up. This is the difference between your access to things and ours: We see both sides and we both criticize while you are completely blind on one eye. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we say: It's incredibly sad that what's happening in Ukraine right now is happening, but that's about the cap of both. That goes on the cap of the Americans and that goes on the cap of the Russians. Both are due to the fact that the Ukrainian population now has to pay such a blood duty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that Austria is so badly ordered that the Austrian population suffers from this price is the responsibility of this federal government, which has nothing better to do than to run undifferentiatedly behind the course of the European Union, which does not understand or want to understand – I think, second – that it is trying to get ahead of the American cars and that at this moment it is necessary to say: Attention, dear Americans, in this case your interests are not our interests! These are not the interests of the European Union and not the interests of Austria at all! And you should put on the map of neutrality. This would be a great advantage in terms of security policy and also economic policy, because we do not get involved in an economic war that will end with the fact that we have been in the biggest disaster since the Second World War. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know that very well, otherwise you would not have convened your own event here yesterday, which was nothing but the preparation of the population for endurance paroles. You know exactly what we're blooming this winter when oil, diesel and all these things become scarce. Then it will be really dark and unpleasant, and for that you bear the responsibility! We don't want that! I don't understand the Austrian People's Party. You say you're an entrepreneurship party. Is it economic to cut a CO2 tax on it, ruin your own economic location, sell your own industry and keep the business operator or tourism in mind after all the Coronadesaster? I think Mahrer was right when he said you're just thinking more of a brain half. It must be the left, I fear, the right is already caring for after two and a half years coalition with these left sectarians. [[towards Greens]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to SPÖ, Mrs Rendi-Wagner: They are talking about full employment and social security and are involved in this destruction course. I am afraid that you not only believe that there is no immigration problem, but also that the SPÖ believes that there is no problem of inflation. At least this is how real socialism looks in Vienna. However, we are happy to take care of these parts of the population, which will be betrayed by you in the most blatant way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, because the government has once again ordered the Russian ambassador to do so -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2075	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2091	- apply to the procedure in Ukraine: If you want to be credible, you can also get the American ambassador and talk to him about the geostrategic considerations of the United States and whether it can really be that the well-being of the alleged allies in the European Union is also at stake for their own power interests. But you lack courage on all levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2136	The Federal Minister is speaking. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2158	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Estimated visitors! Ladies and gentlemen! “Austria needs prosperity and security,” it says in the title of today’s urgent request. – Yes, and thank God our country of Austria is still one of the richest and safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Nevertheless, some things are different now and a lot new: We are faced with enormous inflation and two-digit inflation. In my generation, we have never had to think about it or discuss whether there has been security of supply, whether some can still afford heating or electricity. There it is good to hear – the Federal Chancellor announced yesterday – that the gas storage is now filled accordingly and that the supply in this area is guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: No one can afford it anymore!]] All these new threats, which we did not know before in this dimension, cause people to worry and also fear. It is absolutely understandable that this is the case. In such a situation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is our common responsibility as a policy and as a society to address these concerns and to deal with the major problems we are facing as much as possible. I am conscious of a common responsibility, which we have as politicians in particular, because with all the differences that may separate us, I hope one comes together – I say this today especially on the occasion of the 120. Leopold Figl's birthday, which we celebrated last weekend – that we agree for our free Austria that we will ultimately never lose faith in our country. On Sunday, our Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer highlighted it impressively – many of you were there – I would like to quote [[Call the FPÖ:Please don't!]] [[Abg. Forgedlechner: Where is he today?]] He has said that politicians are also concerned about knowing what fanaticism means and whatever nonsense he can mean. That was like today. – This was said by Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer in memory of Figl a few days ago in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Leopold Figl has already raised two rows forward!]] [[Call the FPÖ: He turns around in the grave! The Figl didn't deserve this!]] I quote: Crisiss show our weaknesses. That was so in the pandemic, and that is now the case in the war of Putin against Ukraine. - Quote. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are vulnerable in some areas, so we are all doing well together to address problems very openly on the one hand, without ignoring them or even beautifying them, on the other hand, without using foam, and not yelling daily with new outrage and increased volume, trying to further insure people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I come to a core area of today's urgent question, of illegal migration and the fight against the tractors, of fighting the tow mafia. I have already stressed several times that we have a problem in the area of illegal migration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I have been pointing this out for months, and we have been working around the clock for months – the executive, the police, the federal army, the BBU, the Federal Agency for Support and Support Services, Mag. Achrainer as boss of it, many others – without great tamtam, without excessive excitement. [[Abg. Krisper: Without big tamtam?]] We have to address what is: What it weighs, it does. It is important that we do this without beautifying anything like the one side means that I would do it, or dramatizing how the other side thinks I would do it. [[Call the FPÖ:I didn't say!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by presenting briefly the starting point, the figures and the facts so that we can have a common starting point From January to August, 56 149 asylum applications were submitted in Austria. [[Abg. Port pitcher: 70,000!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:Now we have over 70 000!]] This means an increase of almost 200 percent during the same period of the previous year. Of these, and these are particularly dramatic figures, nearly 40 000 applications have been made in two districts in Burgenland, in the districts of Oberpulendorf and Neusiedl am See. As a result, Austria is second in the whole of the European Union as regards per capita taxation. We have currently accommodated around 90,000 people in basic care in Austria, of which around 58,000 are Ukrainians – it is primarily women with their children who are housed in basic care. At this point, I would like to say a very, very great thank you to the federal states, to the municipalities, to the many aid organizations that have made themselves particularly worthwhile in the last few weeks, especially in the aid of the displaced people from Ukraine. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Are the Ukrainian Indian, or how?]] [[Call at the ÖVP – towards Abg. Hafenecker –: Give a rest]] Now I want to come to the analysis and try to explain why, from my point of view, we have such dynamic, yes, dramatic figures in sub-areas. From my point of view, there are several reasons and causes for this wave, for this illegal wave of migration, which we must now observe again, and we know that migration or illegal migration is very often also taking place in waves. [[Abg. Smoking: No one can stop what he's talking about! You don't believe that anymore!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] At present, such an illegal wave of migration is taking place. [[Abg. Kickl:... are always only with you!]] On the one hand, we have a dramatic increase in asylum applications from countries that have virtually no chance of asylum, which for economic reasons are trying to get through the asylum system to Europe, to Austria, and that is what we have to propose. [[Abg. Smoking: What are you doing about it?]] [[Abg. Kickl: They'll get the climate bonus then!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Whom you decided!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Top one among these applicants is Indian nationals – you have referred to it, Dr. Kickl –: In the first eight months, Indian nationals have applied for almost 8,000 applications – from January to August, Indian nationals: 8,000 applications, virtually no chance of asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper]] Last year, 330 asylum applications were made by people from that country. First point. The second area, ladies and gentlemen, is the brutal, mystical business of the tractor mafia. You all know that, you know that: The tow mafia, according to experts, now earns more bloody money than the drug mafia. The Schleppermafia benefits very quickly and very skillfully from communication or changes communication, it eventually changes its marketing, and currently it is made by the tractormafia advertising that Europe, that Austria is rightly helping the displaced from Ukraine, that Europe would be open to everyone, that everyone will also receive appropriate support. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Also through you...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] And we have to put a bar on that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another reason, which has also been intensively discussed in recent days, is visa freedom at the Western Balkans. Through this route, very, very many people, especially from these countries that I have mentioned – India, Tunisia and Morocco – come to Serbia and then find the way to Austria or Europe by means of tugs. These are the causes, the reasons why the figures are so high, so dynamic and in some areas so dramatic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Now it's finally about – and that's the task of politics, that's our task: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Lausch]] What are we doing? [[Call the FPÖ:Nix!]] What is to be done to prevent us from doing so? – From my point of view, it does not work out because individual measures are taking place, but we really need a whole set of measures in the fight against illegal migration, in the fight against the tow mafia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I see, essentially, three levels to be worked on there. One thing is: What are we doing in Austria? Second: What do we do bilaterally or multilaterally? Thirdly, What are we doing at European level? What is the European Union doing, what is the European Commission doing? I am beginning with the measures we have rightly taken in this regard in Austria. First: We have greatly strengthened and expanded border controls. [[Abg. Smoking: Where?]] I would like, of course, to expressly thank my colleagues, the police, the border police, the border unit Puma and many others, but also the Austrian Federal Army very much for what is done here on the border every day, especially on the Austro-Hungarian border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Kickl: They're all just more frustrated!]] Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: They're all just more frustrated...!]] We know that this action is sharp, which we have started primarily against the tractors, against the tractor mafia, means that we have more seizures, but also more deterrence, because tractors react immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] One thing is clear to me as an Interior Minister and responsible for the security of this Republic: There's no wavering! It is registered, it is recorded and the fingerprint is taken. [[Abg. Krisper: (significant by the fingers) “travelers ” should not be stopped!]] That is crucial, we need to know who is staying in Europe, and we will do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that this also shows success shows the success of the arrest that the police have achieved in recent weeks and months. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to mention this. Over 400 tractors – over 400 tugs! – have been caught in Austria alone in the first months – large fish and also small fish. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe they were looking for asylum?]] The fact is: The police are very successful at the border of the Federal Criminal Office, the fight against tow, organised crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] Respect for this achievement! Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are still involved in the measures regarding what we are doing in Austria against this phenomenon, against this wave that we are currently seeing here. The next point is the issue of rapid procedures: that we have significantly accelerated procedures, especially in the first instance, especially for people from those countries who have virtually no chance of asylum. These so-called fast procedures have a record value: This year, for this reason, because we are doing so, we have negative 31 500 procedures. These are as many negative asylum decisions as never before. [[Abg. Kickl: And how many are affected?]] The next point I would like to address with regard to what we can do in Austria – which I presented with our experts a few weeks ago – is the so-called anti-marketing in the countries of origin. This is not to be seen as an individual measure, but as a part of these measures, this set of measures, which we must apply in the fight against the tractors. These so-called online campaigns, migration campaigns or migration myth campaigns, with which we make anti-marketing against the tractors in countries such as Tunisia and India – I call that. We must not leave to the tors the sovereignty of interpretation, because we know that the tors promise potentially illegal migrants the blue from the sky. It is crucial and important that we also oppose it accordingly and inform those people properly and accordingly, namely that they go into the hands of tractors, where, in many cases, even death threatens them. [[Abg. Kickl: After that the 500 euros were certainly helpful! It's viral!]] Unfortunately, in recent weeks we have had to see these headlines, where people have died, because they have gone into the hands of tractors – across the Mediterranean, across the Atlantic, but also with us, where 16, 20 people are transported into small scales and suffocated or even killed in traffic accidents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] We must work against this by all means, and anti-marketing is an essential point in these measures. [[Abg. Listen:... you don't do that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These were some essential points that we, as the Republic of Austria, oppose as the Ministry of the Interior in the fight against illegal migration. The second point I have raised is the subject of: What do we do with our neighbors? I believe that this is absolutely crucial that we do not take insulated measures, but that we are always looking for contact, intensive exchange with our neighbouring countries, to support them, if necessary. It is precisely this that we are doing something about it at the EU's external border – we are always talking about the need for robust external border protection at the European external borders, at the Schengen external borders. We're not just talking about it, we're doing something: We support the Hungarian police on the Hungarian-Serbian border with now 70 police officers who work there together with the Hungarian authorities to make this border closer and safer. [[Abg. Kassinger: 70! This is a huge number compared to 50,000.]] Second point: We also travel together with Hungarian colleagues in mixed stripes, including on Hungarian territory, so that we can control together in advance of the Austrian border, in the sense of a double safety belt, and thus also prevent illegal migration. [[Abg. Krisper: And: violence perceived?]] More than 180 such priority actions have now been carried out, and drones and other devices will be used accordingly. We also support the Western Balkans in the fight against the tow mafia. The Federal Criminal Office, together with the Hungarian and Serbian police, has set up a task force to combat towing in order to create the craftsmen, the towing mafia, who are doing the big business. We need to support the police, and we do so because it is necessary and because it is successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maybe I can also report something completely up-to-date: Yesterday, on the initiative of the Slovak colleague, an internal ministerial meeting – Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and also Austria – was held in Bratislava in a very short time, where we simply have to vote closely, because that is the most necessary and correct thing that I agree with the neighbours on such a sensitive issue – and we do so. Why are we doing that? – You know: Last week, the Czech Republic and Austria again started controls at the border with Slovakia, because we consider it necessary to carry out checks in the cascade to the external borders, but also at the internal borders in the fight against the tractors, in the fight against illegal migration. Yesterday we agreed closely that we should carry out internal border controls in close coordination, that we should strengthen external border protection at the Hungarian-Serbian border and that in police cooperation we should continue to intensify the fight against the towing mafia. [[Abg. Krisper: ‘Closely tuned’]] [[Do you mean violence?]] This concerns, as it were, the eastern side and also on the west side we are in intensive exchange. I was in Zurich last week to discuss this issue with the Swiss Federal Councillor, the Minister of the Interior, so to speak, because the topic of Tunisia is one that deals with us together with Switzerland and France. This is bilateral work, that is concrete work that we must do. But it is also necessary with the German colleague across party borders that we exchange. This fight against illegal migration is only a cross-border one, and we are doing so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Following the Austrian level, the bilateral level, so to speak, of the neighbourhood level, I now come to the European level: Of course, this is the most important and probably the most difficult area to continue the asylum and migration pact. You know: In the summer of this year, I visited my Danish Social Democratic counterparts and talked to him about how Denmark – and, you know, even Great Britain – is planning asylum procedures in safe third countries; they are not yet doing so, they are planning it. I think you're looking at these results. This is not yet possible with us in Austria – I am fully aware – but they can do so because Denmark has a so-called opt-out rule and the UK, the United Kingdom, is no longer in the EU. We should look at the experience that these two countries ultimately have with asylum procedures in third countries and bring them into the European debate. That means: I don't want anything illegal, I want to discuss it. Why do I want to discuss this? – Because people in the Mediterranean drown because people suffocate in weights. It is probably our common task to think about how we can prevent this. And we can prevent this by preventing people from getting on the way over the sea or in full-fledged loads with the tractors. I will and I will continue to do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At European level – and I have briefly outlined this at bilateral level – the strengthening of external border protection is crucial – we will also debate intensively at the next Council of Ministers for the Interior – the strengthening of Frontex. Frontex needs a proper mandate, Frontex needs proper equipment to ensure that the borders are safeguarded accordingly. I am very grateful for the summit held yesterday by our Chancellor, together with Hungary and Serbia, on the subject of visa freedom. Serbia has announced that it will not only adapt in the field of visa policy at European level, but also in this area. This is a success of our Federal Chancellor in his hard work, in his dialogue with Hungary and Serbia. Thank you to the Federal Chancellor for this great initiative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have been facing the biggest challenges for decades. The Federal Government is doing everything to counteract the wave of inflation and the fears of the population, as well as the issue of migration, illegal migration. That is why, as the Federal Government, we have already adopted the first anti-truth package in January and in September – and you have discussed it intensively here too and will continue to discuss it – we adopted another billion-severe price package: Cost compensation, price reduction, power-cost brake, valorization of social and family benefits from 1. January 2023, abolition of the cold progression – long debated, implemented by this federal government – and today also – thanks to the negotiators –: Agreement on the adjustment of pensions clearly above the legal framework; to recall only a few things. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: The speaking time would be over! Is this still going on with the questions?]] [[Abg. Loacker: The answer takes on Anschober’s dimensions!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! As the Federal Government, we will and will have to do everything we can to ensure prosperity and security in Austria in the best possible way. We have decided with the sanctions a clear attitude towards Putin's insanity. And that – and so I come back to this impressive speech by our Federal Chancellor last Sunday for 120. The birthday of Leopold Figl – our Federal Chancellor said: [[Abg. Belakovich: Impressive! No one's gotten along!]] [[Abg. Easy: Yes, but the speaking time is already over!]] Show your attitude! Especially at a time when people are afraid and concerned, we are now being asked to show their attitude and to make their attitude clear. The confusion of cause and effect is pure propaganda, and unfortunately this simple narrative is all too easily taken up and passed on by populists. On the other hand, we must act together, because it is equally dangerous for freedom, security and democracy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore show our attitude, keep our peace and work together to find solutions for the people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2803	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Here you go. [[Abg. Kickl: He hasn't answered yet!]] [[Abg. Wöger: He's not finished yet!]] That's from the old clothes collection. [[Abg. Lightenness: Now the speaking time is covered by 10 minutes, and the questions have not yet been answered!]] – There is a final speaking time and not an absolute one, you know, Mr Klubobmann. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e2872	I therefore come to the answer to the questions. Question 1: As I have already said, we stand for a very clear and consistent policy in the area of asylum and migration and for a strict separation between the fundamental right to asylum and migration. We already have a record number of rejected and discontinued applications this year, with 31 500 more than half as I have already done. Together with our neighbouring countries, we advocate enhanced external border protection and procedures in safe third countries, and the fight against the tow mafia is a major focus of police work. More than 400 tractors were arrested this year. [[Abg. Belakovich: A madness!]] On question 2: Of course, we analyze and observe the situation. For example, we have increased the joint focus actions in the Austrian and Hungarian fields. We increase the quota of executives in Hungary from 50 to 70, which is currently happening. In Austria, the Land Police Directorate Burgenland – I have reported that it is particularly burdened – was necessarily strengthened by force allocations from other federal states. Together with our neighbours, we work intensively to strengthen external border protection, close loopholes and proceed with them. The Federal Chancellor was yesterday at a migration summit in Hungary – I have already said so – I met my counterparts from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia yesterday in Bratislava, and on Thursday we fly together to Serbia. It is also essential that the currently valid visa liberalisation is terminated. Question 3: We have to react – I have said that several times – before the tractors react. That is why we have introduced border controls in agreement with the Czech Republic on Slovakia. Together with Hungary, we fight tow crime at the EU's external border and we carry out priority actions in Hungary at the Austrian border. In Austria, we have put in place extensive measures and launched an action against tractors, which means more seizures, but also more deterrence against the tractors. Questions 4 and 5: It is not planned at present. On question 6: Since January 2020, a total of 14 new laws in the field of foreign law have been announced for the implementation of the comprehensive foreign law projects provided for in the government programme and for the implementation of Union legislation. In addition, another novel of foreign law has been reviewed and is in preparation for submission. At present, work is being carried out on the finalisation of a new Law on Foreign Rights to implement the still open projects of the current government programme, which aims, among other things, to raise the criminal framework for organised towing. Questions 7 and 8: 62 300 illegal Invoiced or illegally resident strangers were included in the period 1st. Years until 31. ==References====External links== By August 2022, 56 149 asylum applications were submitted: Afghanistan 12 775, Syria 10 052, India 7 630, Tunisia 7 173, Pakistan 6 021, Morocco 3 048, Turkey 2 370, Somalia 1 103, Egypt 770, Bangladesh 663, others 4 544. On the question 9: Years until August 2022: 54 645. Question 10: ==References== August a total of 6 950 outland transfers, of which 4 039 volunteers – 58 percent – and 2 911 are forced to leave – are 42 percent. And more than half of the applications have been terminated or rejected, in total 31 500. The top ten by nationality are Slovakia, Serbia, Ukraine, Romania, Hungary, Albania, Georgia, Nigeria, Turkey and India. On the question 11: 976 persons were prevented or rejected from entering the federal territory. Question 12: Overall, by the end of August, more than 16 300 Eurodac hits were filed with other Member States, which are therefore processed under Dublin procedures. Specific statistics only concerning the Burgenland are not conducted. Question 13: Yes. Questions 14 to 16: Each asylum seekers and asylum seekers shall be registered and reviewed immediately. In order to spread the burden evenly, the first police surveys take place at different departments throughout the federal territory. On the question 17: Basic supply including the approximately 57 000 Ukrainian displaced persons: EUR 209.8 million; Asylum procedures: 67.5 million; strategic border management: 4.3 million; Repatriation: 2.8 million; total: 284,4 million euros. On the question 18: The funds available will be sufficient. On question 19: In the Directorate of the BFA, the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, 105 people work themselves. Among the individual regional directorates: Vienna 169, Lower Austria 155, Burgenland 48, Styria 114, Carinthia 59, Upper Austria 119, Salzburg 55, Tirol 69, Vorarlberg 31. In the first stations east and west: total 154. In total, the BFA has a staffing level of 1 078. Question 20: No. On question 21: Basic supply business – and I always speak of full employment equivalents –: Basic supply 647,12; independent legal advice 166,11; Return advice 81,18; Interpretation 20,64; central services 82,47. On the question 22: No, no, no, no, On the question 23: ==References== September: 7 226 in 27 Federal Services. Question 24: Austria has concluded readmission agreements or agreements with many important countries of origin: a total of 22 bilateral readmission agreements, including – as examples – with Tunisia or Nigeria, and 18 EU readmission agreements, for example with Pakistan, Georgia, Turkey or the Western Balkans. Consultations, discussions and negotiations, such as with Kazakhstan, Egypt and Mongolia, are being held at bilateral level together with the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. A corresponding initiative for the conclusion of a migration agreement with India has been launched. At European level, the Ministry of the Interior is committed to the conclusion or continuation of long-term negotiations on EU readmission agreements, in particular with Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and China. On question 25: In principle, there is an obligation under international law to readjust its own nationals. Austria has been working intensively for years on the establishment and expansion of the appropriate readmission cooperation with countries of origin. There are a few states that do not or do not comply with their respective obligations, such as Iraq, Iran or Somalia. To this end, I am particularly committed, at European level, to the fact that effective instruments such as the visa lever or a link to trade will be used more actively in the future in order to create a cooperation. On the question 26: On the 30th day of the year. September 2022 a total of 90 430 persons were in the basic supply of the federal and the countries – as I have already reported in my speech – including 19 804 asylum seekers, 1 897 asylum seekers, 7 901 eligible persons, 56 224 Ukrainian displaced persons according to § 62 asylum law and 4 604 other service providers, such as patient. On the question 27: First instance at the end of August: 36 361. On the question 28: ==References== August: Syria 10 964, Afghanistan 6 033, India 5 001, Pakistan 3 268, Tunisia 2 516, Somalia 1 448, Morocco 1 418, Turkey 1 453, Iraq 460, Iran 359. Question 29: 3,2 months. Question 30: 9 020. On question 31: Syria 5 903, Afghanistan 1 325, Iran 444, Somalia 420, unknown 243. On question 32: More than half of the applications were rejected or discontinued: 31 500, of which negative in law: 16 280. On question 33: Tunisia 3 483, Afghanistan 3 297, Pakistan 1 992, Morocco 1, 646, India 1,470. On question 34: A total of 2022 to 1. September 6 950 foreign transfers of foreigners or rejected asylum seekers. On question 35: This question cannot be assigned. Question 36: 3 525. On the question 37: Syria 1 451, Afghanistan 1 162, Somalia 302, Iraq 237, Yemen 73. On the question 38: At the federal level, in cooperation with the Federal Agency for Assistance and Support Services, the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs has carried out a continuous evaluation of the available options with a view to generating additional locations to accommodate needy and vulnerable foreigners. In addition, cross-sectoral exchanges are also being made in this respect. Question 39: If necessary, this will be done after the involvement of the other departments and the public authorities concerned. On question 40: It was thought that 15 000 asylum seekers had been deprived of the administrative procedure and thus refused protection. [[Abg. Belakovich: “No protection”...!]] Question 41: I can repeat what I have already said on Question 2: Together with our neighbors, we work intensively to strengthen outdoor protection, close loopholes and proceed in a closed manner. The Federal Chancellor was yesterday at a migration summit in Hungary. I met with my colleagues from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia in Bratislava yesterday, and on Thursday we fly to Serbia together. It is also essential that currently valid visa liberalisations are terminated. The states of the Western Balkans do intensive work to protect their borders and thus form one of several safety networks that are necessary. On question 42: I advocate clear rules, strong external border protection and procedures outside the European Union at European level. On question 43: We are in ongoing exchange with the OMV. Of course, any suspicions are always examined. On questions 44 and 45: This is why questions of foreign and security policy are not suitable for popular surveys, because the time period is too long to take account of current developments and needs. Sanctions are constantly being reviewed for their effect and, if necessary, appropriately adapted, and, of course, we are very careful to ensure that sanctions are particularly harmful to the polluter – therefore, we have not agreed to an active gas embargo. In addition, this issue is too sensitive to party-political conflicts. We need all energy and strength to cope with the cost and current crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3063	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3090	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, we all became witnesses – ear witnesses and eyewitnesses – of what is best for the present-day Minister of the Interior, namely spreading hot air without substance, without content and, above all, without solutions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to begin by mentioning: You have referred several times to the magnificent speech by the Federal Chancellor Nehammer on the occasion of the birthday of Leopold Figl. Leopold Figl was a great statesman who undoubtedly has important merits in the Republic of Austria, but one thing I also say to you: Figl didn't deserve to be called in a breath with Nehammer. So that's almost embarrassing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: You're not going to fail!]] Now we are on the subject of, on the one hand, the mass storm of illegal asylum seekers from all the countries we have been reporting in Austria for many months. For over a year, we have been warning against development. In the previous year, we had more than 40 000 asylum applications, so in the previous year we also exceeded the limit of 37 500 at Weitem by the former Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner. At the time, the asylum situation had already been called out, because you know it very well: Our asylum law – as we do not even need a legal change – also allows the Minister of the Interior to make use of special provisions that include entry barriers that allow pushbacks and also the establishment of border barriers. These special provisions exist in asylum law, which is also fully in conformity with Union law, and that would be your job, at the latest in these figures, where we have over 70 000 asylum applications – you have not mentioned this number, you have come up with the August figures in your statements – in reality already have well over 70 000 asylum applications in Austria this current year. And by the end of the year – that is what your experts from the Ministry of the Interior say – we could, if the development continues as before, exceed the number of 100,000. Only for size comparison: My home district of Bruck-Mürzzuschlag has about 100 000 inhabitants, which is as many as the entire district of Bruck-Mürzzuschlag, which is the third largest district in Styria after Graz and Graz. So if we don't have an asylum emergency and if you're still spreading hot air here, I don't know what's going to happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are always talking only of figures, but what are the effects in this country that we are experiencing? – The social peace is at risk, as Mrs Mikl- Leitner has once said, there is an overload of the systems you have said in the answer to the question, which is not available. At the BFA, for example, at the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, you say there is no system nuisance. I am in contact with employees of the BFA, and they say they are at the burden limits, they do not comply with the processing of the applications at all, let alone by reviewing already granted asylum records. In fact, they have to be checked regularly whether the reason for asylum, the individual persecution in the country of origin, is still present, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So if you say that the systems are not burdened, then you close your eyes to reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Innenminister, you have also expressed your thanks to the congregations. This is a chuzpe if you still thank the communities. Look Go to the communities, how they suffer from your policy! The asylum homes grow like the Schwammerls out of the ground because the systems are overburdened because the capacities are no longer available at all. Leoben in Obersteiermark, Baumax Hall, for example – we have received a request from your home –: Within a few months there are 266 people there. They've been deprived of the asylum procedure. They're gone. [[Abg. Kickl: Abstain protection!]] No one knows where they are, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich: They have just abandoned their protection, the Minister has said!]] – They have left their protection, exactly. They're on their way somewhere like submarines. It's a chuzpe if you thank yourself. Talk to your local party, the ÖVP, in Kindberg! In Kindberg you will now open a mass quarter, a large quarter. You claim that's for vulnerable groups – you can tell someone else the shame. We know from experience what that looks like. Now I would like to quote briefly from the “profile”, there is currently a story about the ÖVP inside; the image of the current German Chancellor also speaks volumes. [[Keeping the ‘profile’ with the article placed up]] This is where ÖVP Vice-Chairman of Kindberg is quoted. I would not have done this otherwise because I do not wish to harm him, because this gentleman is very well, I am also in constant contact with him. This also shows that there are still people in the ÖVP who have resistance and are responsible, but they are not sitting here, in this room. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: There is no one with you!]] The ÖVP Vice-Citizen of the municipality of Kindberg im Mürztal, Josef Grätzhofer, says: “I liked “Sachslehner’s call.” He goes on to say – now you listen carefully! –: ‘The ÖVP stands for performance. However, too many people come to the country because of social benefits.” Grätzhofer's Grant has a reason. He fights an asylum quarter for up to 250 refugees to be opened at the turn of the year. His allies: the other local parties SPÖ, FPÖ and” the Communists. – So in the municipality of Kindberg, everyone is against it. By the way: We have also launched a parliamentary citizens' initiative, which has so far been signed by 1,400 people. Unfortunately, it is not possible to get an appointment from Mr Sobotka. It was directed to us by the head of the office: Mr Sobotka has no time to accept it over the next few weeks and months. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: This is the President!]] That would be a 3-minute date at a plenary session. That is where we see how seriously the President-in-Office of the Council is dealing with the issue of citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ÖVP Deputy Mayor from Kindberg Grätzhofer: So his allies are the other local parties. ‘His opponent: ÖVP Minister of the Interior Gerhard Karner. His ministry – quoted – has approved the ‘mass quarter’, as Grätzhofer calls it, [...]’ Grätzhofer continues: "We are Christian-social, but with borders. The Minister of the Interior and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany must become more sharp during immigration, otherwise we will be left.” Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Support your party colleagues in Kindberg who are desperately fighting against the flooding of their community with asylum seekers and asylum seekers from all over the world! This would once be a responsible policy, but the asylum policy will be You only get off when elections are coming and if you are not particularly good as you are currently. Mr. Interior Minister, you also thanked the police. – Yes, the police are doing excellent work, including the soldiers of the federal army, but talk to them! Talk to those who stand directly on the front and do the work! Talk to the young recruits in which the military psychologists are in constant use! Why do these police officers at the borders have the wrong assignment, the wrong political assignment? Why don't you cover your back? Pushbacks – a topic we always bring: Yes, can it be that we cannot reject the borders? – Yes, Mrs. Krisper is foreign to the world and says yes. [[Abg. Krisper: Yes!]] – It can't be! Should I tell you what can't be? – It cannot be that anyone who somehow makes it across the state border and takes the magic word asylum into his mouth, is here in the system and we look at it powerlessly! There's a twenty thousand times a breach of justice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of the Interior has accused me in the committee, when I said that we will need pushbacks – rejection at borders – of invoking him to a breach of justice, to break Union law, and Mr Bürstmayr has complained of my legal understanding. Let me tell you what my legal understanding looks like: If there are Union law standards that prevent us from achieving our national objectives and protecting our borders and thus our people, then these legal standards must be removed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, of course, has the right to follow politics. Then what are we all sitting for? And there are also European countries that do not take it so closely with Union law in this area. Although the Greeks do not admit it, it is happening in Greece. Poland opens this up quite openly. In Poland, it is not enough to thank them for defending the whole of Europe last year against the mass storm that came from Belarus, which was taken from Erdoğan from Istanbul to Minsk to destabilise Europe. In such situations, which may occur at any time, there would have been a need for European cooperation with Poland. There you can live European solidarity, because Poland has defended Europe on its own and has been shamed by the EU, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am curious about whether you are finally acting – my colleague, Prince, will subsequently bring in a very comprehensive motion for a resolution from us – and whether you are willing to use the coalition-free area with your left coalition partner, because it is not possible to pursue a strict asylum policy with a left-left immigration fanatical coalition partner. You must be accused that the ÖVP is also a left-wing party, because you are far away from conservative values, from middle-right policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krisper: For God's sake! Does the Constitution apply to the FPÖ?]] So we don't have to wait for a red-green-pink traffic light, we already have a left-left federal government in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Therefore, it is not surprising to us that it is not too stupid for you from the ÖVP to support a left-left President who covers all your corruptions, who says: [[Ongoing call for calls in ÖVP and Greens]] Foreigners, as much as possible! and who urge our women to wear headscarf out of solidarity with those who have to wear it for religious reasons. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Well, the women in Iran, who are now actively and courageously fighting against the criminal Mullah regime, can also thank the Federal President Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3306	The absolute speaking time is over. Unfortunately, I have already pushed away the red light of God. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3352	Final word: Finally, run an active and restrictive asylum policy! Dear Austrians, take the opportunity on Sunday to wipe out this federal government of an Austrian and especially the Van der Bellen from Hofburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3393	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3419	On the left, Mr Amesbauer, is where the thumb is on the right. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightness:... does Mr Stocker have to talk every time?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President. Minister of the Interior! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and at home or here on the gallery! If you listen to what the FPÖ is doing here for the best, you can only say: Every day, the Murmeltier greets! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] It's not long since you've given the same thing to the best of here at a current hour. And if you repeat it so often: It's not getting any more real. The right thing is: Mr Klubobmann Kickl, if you were Minister of the Interior, we would not have any more asylum seekers. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, I don't believe that!]] I also tell you why: because no law from the refugee crisis has been extended by you in your time as a minister. [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness, look at the numbers and then talk on!]] I'm telling you something else, people should know: The FPÖ has agreed to the climate bonus for asylum seekers – only so that people know it too. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you're talking about who failed in the Ministry of the Interior, then I only know one failure in this function, and he's sitting in your person in front of me, suffocating the BAT. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's where we can say tens of the ÖVP!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore come to the refugee crisis that we really have. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker, Mr Amesbauer and Mr Steger.]] We all know this except the SPÖ, whose chairman has still not understood that we have a serious problem there, and obviously relatively little talk to their party colleagues in the Burgenland. But who has done something to solve this problem? [[Abg. Amesbauer: Interior Minister Kickl!]] – Not the FPÖ, which has no single proposal either, but it was the Federal Chancellor, who was at the migration summit and who has achieved improvements together with Orbán and Vucić, because the change in the visa regime in Serbia will help us. [[Abg. Lightenness: The colleague is a particularly funny one!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] These are solutions that people expect, and these are tasks that this government fulfils – including the Minister of the Interior, who has discussed cooperation with his colleagues from Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic and has agreed that the borders will be protected. Since last Thursday, 25 000 people have been monitored, and also the numbers for the control of tractors speak for themselves: This shows who is actually doing something about this refugee crisis in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I also come to Ukraine's war sanctions. I don't know any of Putin's arguments that the FPÖ here doesn't repeat. You tell the story of Putins about this war, and so you know who you're on. [[Abg. Kickl: I believe you haven’t listened again! The left ear is the opposite of the right, and you should have both open!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – I listen very carefully to you and I hear from you only a great understanding for Putin. They just say what doesn't work out sanctions don't work, they're against arms delivery – yes, yes – you're against the German Chancellor taking up talks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, we are also neutral!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing, yes! You like to abolish neutrality, we know that!]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] - No, I do. When he spoke to Putin, you cried out loud: That can't be anything! [[Don't call the FPÖ:Gar!]] That means you only know what you're against. That's the spirit that always refuses. That's your party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's the same thing with you!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You have nothing to contribute to a solution, but you can only deny. [[Abg. Kickl: To negative things...!]] But what you can do well, I admit to you, that's column, that's polarizing, that's mutual play, yesterday's civil service against presence service. [[Prolonged opposition to the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] You can do all this very well, but people in our country don't need it. People don't need that. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Explain this to Mrs. Sachslehner!]] People need help, orientation and perspective. The aid is given to them by this Federal Government, the Chancellor and the Coalition – 35 billion. [[Abg. Kickl: Mrs Sachslehner sees this differently!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Steger]] A perspective is offered by knowing clearly which side we are on, the orientation, the attitude and values we represent, and a prospect that we are re-enhanced from this crisis. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This is what this federal government is doing – and that is what people need.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3784	Mrs Belakovich has spoken on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3809	My previous speaker, Mr Stocker, said that the FPÖ had agreed to the climate bonus for asylum seekers. [[Call the Greens: vote yes! That's what you got!]] - That's wrong. [[Abg. Maurer: You can't actually correct what's wrong!]] In the decision in January, when the group of recipients was decided here, the FPÖ voted against.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3874	Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e3895	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! One has been asked a little bit about what is actually the true background of this special meeting and this urgent question. I think Mr Amesbauer has already shown what the real background is: You apparently have to stir a little bit of the advertising drum for the choice on Sunday. This is the true background – and not the problem you want to address today. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Right!]] Apparently the despair in the FPÖ circles is already relatively large and the wrong decision made by Klubobmann Kickl seems to have already been clearly demonstrated. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: You don't even have a candidate!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Nevertheless, the questions you raise have quite a right: On the one hand, the question is how we deal with massive inflation, and on the other – and that must be said – we have a very challenging situation at the Hungarian border, at the Lower Austrian border, because immigration has actually increased. [[Abg. Havenecker: Generate!]] The link between these two topics is the unsavory one; and this, unfortunately, is the typical thing at the FPÖ that they are now once again linking two issues that are not directly related. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] But she's making it up here again as she was last week: They say, out of the sanctions, because that's the way the price has been done, but that's just a misbelief. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] You see, quite clearly, that the pressures have attracted much, much earlier. We warned a year ago that there is a situation where inflation is rising. [[Abg. Worm: That's not true! You were on it a lot later, in May last year!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That is why last October we set out the first initiatives to take countermeasures – and we are right now. The crisis, which is now, is aggravating the problem, which is right – it tightens the problem! – and it clearly shows one thing: that the market fails in many areas and that the market does not regulate everything. [[Abg. Worm: Let's say it all the time!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The market does not regulate the price of electricity, it does not regulate it at the price of gas, it does not regulate it in general provision, and it must not be left to the market. There needs to be a courageous policy that intervenes in the market as it is now in Germany. [[Abg. Worm: That's not what you do!]] The Germans show us how it works, and you have to do that. [[Abg. Kickl: Why does he suddenly stop doing what he did before?]] These are the proposals that we have been drumming and preaching here for weeks and saying: [[Abg. Worm: But you are always different from SPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] It needs a gas price cap, it needs an excess of the winnings! Yes, of course, there is a need for a policy to intervene in the market, and we must implement it, and the Federal Government must finally act there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But why does the market no longer work now and has worked before? Why, Mr. Diplom-Volkswirt?]] Now on the second topic: The situation on the Burgenland-Hungarian border is indeed challenging and we must take the situation very seriously. It is now clear that the Federal Government is failing in the field of asylum policy. The current situation shows and reveals that ÖVP's internal ministers have failed on this subject for the last 20 years. You sat down and said: We have closed the Balkan Route!, We have closed the Mediterranean route!, but nothing you have done – nothing at all! That is the fact that is now revealed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have tied up a bear to the population and now the true states show up. Apart from announcements and populism, there has not been anything from the FPÖ or the ÖVP on this issue. The current situation shows: We have no effective border management, no professional action in this area. There are no staff on the border. There are no staff in the registrations. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot – a lot! – in annoyance, and in responsibility there is the ÖVP, for many, many years, and nothing happens. We have the situation that you are now putting a train ticket in your hand at the border and sending it across the country. – This is not a solution, Minister of the Interior! That's not a solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor can it be that on the one hand the camp in Traiskirchen overquills, that there is a problem in Innsbruck during the first recording talks and, and, and. There's so much that goes wrong. – This is the management of the ÖVP in this area, and this shows the overload you have in the department. Just to believe, like the FPÖ, we solve the whole nationally, is not right, that will not go. We need European solutions in this area, and we must strive for them. We must be united with the constructive forces in Europe – Mr. Interior Minister, with the constructive forces in Europe! It makes little sense to hit the side of Orbán, who does not seek European solutions. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] We need a solution which is European, which is in accordance with human rights, and that is why it needs very, very important points. You mentioned one point, and there we are d’accord: There is a need for better protection of the European external borders, but at last it is also necessary to act and not only to speak of them. [[Abg. Kickl: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tell me what that means!]] At the EU's external borders, procedural centres – already at the external borders – need to be established, with UNHCR standard, that we then have, at the external borders, appropriate first-level warehouses and centres, increased efforts to finally conclude more return agreements and, as has been said, cooperation with the countries concerned, with the particularly affected countries in the European Union, because the goal must be – and I agree with you, Minister of the Interior – to ban this inhuman and inhumane criminal model of the tractors. [[Abg. Kickl: Lager?! Get down!]] That must be very, very top priority. We must strive to do this together, and there is a need for international cooperation, there is a need for cooperation at European level, and there is a lack of cooperation in this Federal Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4169	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4190	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, we are sitting here today at a special meeting, but this meeting and the set-up are not very special: It's what we've known from the Freedom Party for years and days. Let's look at the title! What's this about? – It is about sanctions against Russia, and it is actually about the presidential election campaign, as has already been done, but it is a special session, as we have had many times here, and it is a discussion that we have had many times before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Kickl: This superinstructive thing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] However, what is really special today is that an Austrian scientist won the Nobel of Physics prize. – Anton Seilinger, warm congratulations from this place! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] [[Abg. Kickl: He can't even defend himself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] But let us return to the real issue or to the subject at least in the title of this meeting, and let us not be deceived: Klubobmann Kickl has today tried to shed some crocodile tears in order to forget the bad impression that one still has of yesterday's session, namely that the Freedom Party is not important to the fate of the Ukrainians, but is actually no matter, and that it never happens in your opinion on this terrible war. He has now shed a few crocodile tears, but this must not conceal what policy the Freedom Party is doing here. [[Abg. Belakovich: A good one!]] The FPÖ is trying to act as if it were acting in the interests of Austria, and in fact it is doing something quite different: It is in the interest of Vladimir Putins. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We know from different sources that there are different links between the FPÖ and the Party of Putins, and the source for this information is partly even the Freedom Party itself. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Who always writes this nonsense to you?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let's look at reality: The Freedom Party can and must be called the fifth column of Putin in Austria. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's what you're talking about as a communist!]] We remember the selfie from Moscow in front of the Kremlin, where four high-ranking FPÖ politicians with proud breast took their photo, their selfie, before or after, I don't know exactly, they signed the friendship agreement with Putin's party Some Russia. [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't know anything!]] They were very proud of it. [[Abg. Worm: An intellectual witness of poverty on your part!]] But the preliminary highlight of the submission has been delivered by former FPÖ foreign minister Karin Kneissesl at her wedding 2018. [[Abg. Belakovich:..., she was not a FPÖ minister!]] In case someone has forgotten: She not only invited Putin personally to her wedding in the Styria, no, she also considered it necessary to make before him a nod, I would say not even a nod, but a deep kneefall – we remember this picture. [[showing the expression of the corresponding photo]] [[Call the FPÖ:Oh, oh, oh, ohe!]] This gesture of submission shows exactly whose mind child this FPÖ is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You are really unsuspecting!]] The Freedom Party is the party of Putins in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Have you read the book of Van der Bellen?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] And Putin represents a very clear world view: He stands for reactionary values, he wants to create an empire of satellite states and does so with brutal violence against civilians, he rejects liberal democracy and pluralist society. [[Abg. Stefan: Van der Bellen: 2018 Putin congratulates and hopes he will meet him soon! Could that be?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Congratulations on Putin, Van der Bellen!]] And with all this effort, he finds a willing ally in the FPÖ. The FPÖ is just as committed to this project, Putin's propaganda spreads in Austria, just as it does in France Le Pen, in Italy Salvini, in Germany the AfD. [[Abg. Worm: The usual weak speech, Mrs. Colleague!]] That, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, these are your partners: women, these are your friends who are fighting liberal democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steger: Do you also go into content or...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What FPÖ has done here and in the past – and there is enough image documentation in photos and videos – is the sale of Austria to Putin and his friends. [[Abg. Steger: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Call the FPÖ:Read the case!]] [[Abg. Stefan:..., so not how Van der Bellen congratulated him?]] It is very good that the Freedom Party with this whole undertaking is clearly in the minority here. Four parties stand very clearly on the side of the Ukrainians, the Freedom Party stands on the side of the war criminal. [[Abg. Worm: Ah!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Like Corona! Like Corona!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Like Corona!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It is good that you are in opposition, and it is good that you remain in minority on this issue. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4620	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4647	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, I would like to refer to the heading of the urgent question raised by the FPÖ: “Austria needs prosperity and security,” the Freedom Party demanded. And there I can only say: Yeah, yeah. To safety: Austria has 60 percent more police than Switzerland – so I would say that security is sufficient, and therefore I focus on prosperity in particular. Prosperity is important, but prosperity must be developed. Prosperity does not come from the printing press of the European Central Bank. Wealth cannot also be bought with debts from the Republic of Austria. Wealth does not arise from corporate aid or from pension increases that seem to be financed from nothing. [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We need to work out prosperity, and that means that we need, above all, an economy that works well. The Minister of Labour presented the unemployment figures on Monday. We have been experiencing a shortage of labour for months, which has not been a mere shortage of skilled workers for a long time. There are too few workers at all levels of qualification. For one third of the open positions, only compulsory schooling is required as a minimum qualification. This lack of labour means that host companies have to set additional closing days, that companies reject orders that photovoltaic systems cannot be mounted, which is why we will be independent in energy policy at a later stage. [[Abg. Belakovich: If they are delivered at all!]] The lack of labour has thus become a real brake on prosperity. But this is not what we are discussing here in the House. We are discussing higher pensions, higher unemployment, higher public expenditure and, of course, terrible immigration. None of this brings the prosperity that FPÖ demands. [[Abg. Worm: Performance!]] We must work out prosperity, as we have said. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In the next few years, birth-olds are retiring and lower births are heading for the labour market. This alone will result in tens of thousands of workers missing. If we do not have these workers in our own country, we need qualified immigration. [[Abg. Belakovich: Qualified, that's...!]] But this country has no immigration policy at all – this is a failure of many years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Every year, milky quotas are decided for seasonal and harvest helpers, and no matter who sets the Minister of the Interior, no matter which party. These are people who only come here to work and leave after that, and each time we have so small quotas. It didn't matter when the Minister of the Interior was a liberties, because the same thing happened. You throw the people who want to work here, bureaucratic beatings between the willing legs. It wouldn't have to be. The Red and White Red Card has already been reformed for the seventeenth time, but two authorities are still busy allowing a person to work or to refuse it. On average, the procedure lasts 15 weeks. Qualified people work in the meantime in Sweden, Australia or Canada, while in Austria the act is still being pushed back and forth between Magistrat and AMS. Ukrainians who come to Austria, who have fled, have to make another detour over the AMS before they are allowed to work. No one knows what they need this additional employment permit – this is pure employment therapy for employees in the labour market service. We have to work out prosperity – but then we have to let people work. This does not happen even if companies wait for operating permits for months, if the accidental arrival of a hazel mouse prevents an entire hydropower plant and if EIA procedures last five years and longer. The bureaucracy has become a prosperity brake. Where is the bureaucracy brake that increases our prosperity? A country that cannot even easily transfer 500 euros to every citizen has actually bureaucracyd itself to death. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Worm.]] So this bureaucracy brake isn't coming. Instead, we still pay more taxes on wages and salaries – taxes that have nothing to do with work. Austria's additional wage costs are among the highest in developed industrialized countries. However, they are not only for the insurance of workers, they also feed the money storage in the Chamber of Workers and in the Chamber of Commerce, the spendier budgets of the Landers – through the housing promotion contribution – and the care jobs in accident insurance. Where is the tax relief for the companies that, with their economies, make our prosperity with higher wages possible at all? There is really much to do for more prosperity. But what the FPÖ has in the request today has nothing to do with it, because building a fence around Austria does not increase prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4749	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e4770	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has been telling us since February – and you too, Minister, in your speech – that there was no alternative to unconditional compliance with the EU sanctions that devastate us economically. Of course, that's not true. Of course, one needed backbone, courage, personality and enforcement in order to open up once in Brussels, to demand reason and reason and to represent the national Austrian interests there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These characteristics are very rare in the Federal Government. Therefore, it is preferable to choose the way to go about the critics of sanctions, from unity, strength, solidarity and value-based action to phase and swing the morale. It's always easier. You can't see how massive human rights violations happen there, that hurts. But it is pretended as if there was only this one area of conflict between Russia and Ukraine in the world. Of course, this is not the case either. We have to watch everywhere, for example in Afghanistan. We need to see young women killed by the authorities and the security authorities in Iran because their veils, their headscarfs are slipped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Iranian President will be received by the Federal President Van der Bellen – there is nothing there, no words on it! We must watch – very unpleasantly – as in these brutal theocratics in the Arab countries, mass human rights violations happen, as the Chinese treat the Tibetans and Uygurs. Because you always say: Yes, but the new is, that is now in Europe! We now have an attack on Europe, on Western values! . I think your valued attention is missing that there is a saber race in Turkey, which is no longer achievable, in a conflict between Turkey and the Nato country of Greece, which has started or has existed for decades. Turkey does not intend to share with the EU the islands and waters of the Aegean Seas and the stocks of gas in the Mediterranean. They want them for themselves. The Turkish Prime Minister will have to vote next year and must also distract from the economic conditions of hyperinflation. He will use this to mark the strong man outside politics. He threatens the Greeks and says openly: We'll come suddenly, overnight! What are we doing here, maybe any initiatives to elucidate the conflict? - No! But, well, we have the remedy when it comes to sanctions against Turkey. They'll end this right now. Turkey not only has armed forces, which are being formed and upgraded, not only has conventional weapons, but the Turkish Prime Minister has quite a lot of weapons in hand: Millions of loyal countrymen in Germany, hundreds of thousands here in Austria, and he has in his country, you know for sure, between three and four million Syrians who are very, very unpopular in Turkey, and who he wants to get rid of before the presidential election in 2023. In what direction will these Syrians move? In their home country or in the open social paradise of Germany and Austria? “What it weighs has it,” you said. Unfortunately, we have open borders and open social systems. All you have said here, Minister of the Interior, is that you can decide with us. I even think you want to do this. But what you're hiding is that you can't realize anything about it. You have a coalition partner who says openly that there is no talk about it at all. It's not talking about deportations, repatriations. The Secretary-General, Mr Sachslehner, has thus justified her request for withdrawal. Did you notice that your coalition partner did not clap in your speech, did not clap, no one, while you clap all the time when the Greens spread their ideology here, fanatically – because you quoted it – in their fanatical support of immigration, in the fanatical rejection of fossil energies and the operation of your industrialization? [[towards ÖVP]] [[Call the Greens: Oh!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] They clap, but the greens don't clap. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Well, now you're grinning. [[towards Federal Minister Karner]] They didn't clap. Have fun with the enforcement! But why you are looking for your salvation in the reproach of the Freedom Party, which was entirely with you on this subject, I do not know. You will explain it to your voters, including the new Secretary-General. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know what you promise to always go with the Greens to the liberals – perhaps the only common denominator. In any case, we are presenting an asylum package with a motion for a resolution. There's everything in there you talked about. [[towards Federal Minister Karner]] We can decide. I'm going to: [[Quoted print version removed]] Asylum stop now – suspension of asylum applications. The target must be zero. - You're there. Enable pushbacks. – We are surrounded by safe states, that is why we reject the fact that we do not employ the asylum industry here. Introducing a crime of asylum fraud and measures against asylum abuse. – You know that your authorities will be told from the front to the back in asylum proceedings. These persons should then have lost their right to asylum and should be postponed. Closing of asylum accommodation in small communities. Real border protection instead of welcome culture. - So much for it. Decide this or prove weakness which is not only exploited externally – by Turkey and many other states – but also internally politically, in your case by your own coalition partner. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5013	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. Lausch: Even the Minister of the Interior was impressed!]] Mrs Jachs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5045	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I am concerned about everyone and anyone who is concerned about the geopolitical situation, but for which – yesterday, today – I have a very slow lack of understanding, is the choice of words of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What I do not understand is the urgency of today's special meeting, and I would like to explain this to the audiences in particular: We had a special meeting on sanctions yesterday. This morning, exactly at this time, we had a Stapo committee, which is the subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Kickl: Something important!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In the Stapo Committee, not only our ministers are present, but also the intelligence services, and we Members can also ask questions. [[Abg. Belakovich: We just don't get any answers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The problem is that we Members are subject to confidentiality. We have another Internal Committee this afternoon, after the special meeting. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, nice!]] In the Committee on the Interior, there will even be a recent debate with the Federal Minister. So, ladies and gentlemen, you would have had enough opportunity to ask these questions to our ministers, but you would rather stage a special meeting. [[Abg. Kickl: But that's what we decide ourselves, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... public, or what?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I think that's quite clear: They're really just about the show in front of the camera, very transparent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What you, I think, have not gotten, is that... without public events!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] What is now becoming quite clear – because you just need to listen – is that the FPÖ is only concerned about uncertainty, about division and the fear of the population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Say that to the Sachslehner! Tell Mrs Sachslehner!]] You can still call in so much, Mr. Kickl. I know you like the role of mini-putin. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tell the woman Sachslehner!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:This is the last offer of the ÖVP!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Tut hurt, hurt!]] I know you like in the role as a small, strong man who is all alone on a wider hall, similar to Russia, but reality is different: Austria is not alone in Europe, as opposed to Russia. To stick to your words, Mr. Klubobmann: If you don't realize that, you'd be the blind one among the single-eyed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Austria is not alone. You only recently declared the election of your sister party in Italy, at least on social media, I got it. I know that Mr Ragger speaks excellent Italian from your ranks. Perhaps you'll just call your sister parties once, maybe once you're really interested in finding solutions to common European solutions. I believe that you are free to do so at any time, and that would also be in line with what we understand in it, to take the opposition role seriously, namely, to actively participate in the security of Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: What do you know about the...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Must try it yourself!]] [[New call for tender Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do this, ladies and gentlemen, every day we work on the safety of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Kickl: To servas!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And that's all that comes out?]] Yesterday was the migration summit, as various measures have been taken. For example, what you always call for in the Committee on the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, namely that the visa freedom of the Serbs should be adapted to European regulations. Yes, that was discussed yesterday at the summit. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, We're working on safety. It is up to us not to confuse the Austrian population, as the FPÖ does, just to make its own vote, but we really want to work on security. [[Abg. Kickl: The biggest insecurers are you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you: Please do not fall into the simple slogans of the FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5345	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and in front of the screens! Let's go, my colleague. They talk about rhetoric and fight rhetoric in the high house and call the FPÖ-Obmann a mini-putin. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Inconceivable!]] [[Bravorufe des Abg. Worm.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In the face of this terrible war, this is also a shame, I would like to tell you. So much respect for democracy should be given. [[Abg. Haubner: Which party are you, Mr. Colleague?]] Today I would like to inform you about the failure of the ÖVP in migration policy, also with the reference to you in the FPÖ, which you are in the Coalition Betterl with the so-called Christian Social People from 2017. [[Abg. Smoking: Mr President, you also sleep in the hammock!]] The third myth policy of the ÖVP has finally put an end to it, and that is sobering, but ultimately it is good for our country. [[Abg. Smoking: Mr President, you sleep in the hammock!]] Let us take a look at the last Sunday: The SPÖ Burgenland wins 162 mandates during the municipal elections, while the ÖVP loses 64 mandates, which is a clear signal in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:What was it like in Tyrol?]] [[Abg. Kickl: The Doskozil has won, not the SPÖ!]] Yesterday, Chancellor Nehammer, Serbian President Vucić and Viktor Orbán met in Budapest and once again discussed the situation of migration, which is on the eastern Austrian border in particular. How does one relate to the other? – While the people of Burgenland, especially in the districts of Oberpülendorf and Neusiedl, are once again unsecured by rising migration and the current head of state Doskozil in Burgenland also identifies the problem and proposes solutions at the same time, ÖVP ministers and all above all the German Chancellors present themselves to the people and play their show policy again, with political placebo at international press conferences. To the background of a long history: In 2017, the Balkan route was closed, the ÖVP had everything under control. After this shame no longer occurs today, Nehammer has to stage himself as a crisis manager again. The fact is: The EIA is primarily responsible for the uncoordinated approach of state institutions and insufficient cooperation in Austria and the Central European region. In Austria, the threefold overcrowding in the first recording center of Traiskirchen is evidenced despite alternatives. The fact that the SPÖ learned from mistakes in the 2015 migration crisis showed the prevention measures just under the Minister of Defense Doskozil at that time. Unfortunately, they were not further developed by the ÖVP. I am speaking specifically here of the defence policy format of the Central European Defence Cooperation. This format united the defense ministers of six states: Austria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia. Poland had observer status. Under Minister of Defense Doskozil, the ministers of the participating states met and discussed plans on how to close the Western Balkans route for illegal migration. [[Abg. Haubner: What is that? Burgenland party speech, right?]] I expressly speak of illegality in the organized tow. In 2017, at the initiative of Doskozil in Austria, in Vienna, we held an international conference of Interior and Defence Ministers from 15 states, where a joint action plan with a crisis response mechanism was decided not to re-enter a situation like that in 2015. Today, Austria has again taken over the Presidency in the Central European Defence Cooperation, but the current Minister for Defence Tanner is apparently not concerned about the fight against illegal migration, nor about the Interior Minister and the Federal Chancellor. This party does not show any commitment, nor does it have any solution competence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, you will be made clear and insured – since Dublin de facto was, unfortunately, buried politically; one of the causes of his, Viktor Orbán, was on television yesterday: The escape is always nourished by wars, disasters and crises, but also by labour and economic migration. The rule of law must be able to decide asylum applications without any political intervention. The EU opened its borders to the free economy with Schengen. However, if Europe is not able to agree quickly on a regulated migration policy, then this economic union is history at some point without ever realizing a social and security union. There is a lot at stake for Europe and for our country Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5509	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5530	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Kickl! This is a strangely unloving request that you have presented to us: mixed up, a little bit of asylum here, a bit of sanctions there, full of some completely unclaimed claims, in the end, a few more calls with the salt scatterer spread over it, the request is complete. [[Abg. Kickl: Ha, ha, ha, ha!]] It's a request with a lot of copy-and-paste from old offset pieces. How else should I explain that you ask about point 35 – I quote –: [[Abg. Hafenecker: You are one of the greatest profiters of the asylum crisis! You're going to make millions with the refugees! Shame!]] “If there is no statistics (in question 79), why are such data not collected?” – quotations. But today's question has no question 79, it has only 45 questions. Well, there's no way anyone's written off himself.- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Loveless – but that still fits your policy, because you have been trying for years to do what you and all the other populists can best because it's the only thing you can do: To insure people, to make them crazy with any claims, to frighten them and to present them with a scapegoat. [[Abg. Hafenecker: While you’re bragging millions with the...!]] Just like we've been doing since the Middle Ages: My field has hailed it, the field of the neighbor not. Where's the witch that owes it? There, look, one with red hair, it must have been. [[Abg. Kickl: Could it be that you're doing exactly the same thing now? Could it be that way?]] - That's your policy. What they do is the deepest Middle Ages. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Could it be that you're doing exactly the same thing now?]] People are insecure in order to make mood and catch voices, you can do that, but you don't have solutions for Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Very modest for a supposedly high-ranking lawyer!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] And of security and of how to produce this security, you don't understand anything – nada, niente, nitshevo. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Instead of ensuring security, in your short time as Minister of the Interior, you have permanently ruined the reputation and reputation of our most important intelligence, practically alone. [[Abg. Kickl: After that you didn't like it!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Don't vote! Read the report by Mr...!]] The DSN is still working today to restore this reputation. Don't worry, it's only vital information that Austria has been cut off for years and is still in part – what a security policy nonsense! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Jössas!]] And that Austria has been cut off from such important information for so long, lies not only in this high staged house search, but also in the fact that there are too many indications that you and the FPÖ have sold the interests of the Republic to Russia. That very Russia that is now leading a criminal war of attack, which not only threatens Ukraine but also tries to extortion and extortion Europe, that was and is your ally. For the interests of this state and its dictator Vladimir Putin run, talk, work, not for the interests of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our Austria has betrayed and sold you. [[Abg. Kickl: Van der Bellen congratulated him for choosing! And now he's a dictator!]] And I know you say stiff and firm that you didn't get any money from Russia. So now I have to say that you do all this for free, that you do not sell the security interests of Austria, our all vital interests, but give them away. Honestly stated: I don't know what's worse. I only know one thing: It is very, very good that you no longer rule in this country. [[Abg. Belakovich: I think you need a doctor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Wait a little!]] - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5777	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e5798	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) – Mr Kickl, you spoke earlier, now it is me. [[Abg. Kickl: Always say that, that's the Lord's attorney! You always have to say that!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: After that talk stop!]] I'd like to say something right at the beginning: When I listen to the debate here, I actually feel that we are no longer representative of what is happening to people out there. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah!]] That is what I mean, Mr Kickl, with this question, which is hardly too ridiculous. However, I also mean the reactions to this: the fact that the FPÖ has been accused of things that they may or may not have done wrong in recent years is just as much about the problem of people and entrepreneurs, as is the request concerning asylum itself. [[Abg. Belakovich: New world order!]] Let's take a short look at the perspective of an entrepreneur: [[Abg. Belakovich: Is this a rainbow?]] I am a businessman myself, and we are concerned about this autumn and winter because of the high energy costs; we are concerned about autumn and winter due to the still missing labour force; we are also concerned about how we should finance future wage and salary adjustments from what companies currently have on yield; and we are also concerned that in many other areas in which the government is currently sparse – the key to administrative reduction – far too little progress is being made. [[Abg. Belakovich: And that's our fault, isn't it?]] We are currently facing a toxic situation in autumn and winter, and the question of the asylum chaos you are describing in your application has nothing to do with the question of how the prosperity of today's generation and the future generation will stand together. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But maybe it has something to do with security in the country?]] The central element in constructive parliamentaryism on the part of the liberals and of all the other parties would, in my view, be to consider: How do we work together through autumn and winter? Mr Kickl, I do not know what you are so excited about right now, because, unlike others, I address your concerns in terms of content and also respond to the points raised in the question. [[Abg. Kickl: But maybe it has something to do with safety! It's in the title too!]] We really need to focus on how we bring our own population and our own companies through the next few months. [[Abg. Worm: This is prosperity!]] And I'll tell you one thing: As an employer, we do not currently have the problem that too many people want to stay in our country, but that too few are available on the labour market. If we want to fight the crises of the present, we should think much more about how we actively recruit labour abroad, such as people who may come from crisis regions who have no asylum claim, if they are young people who want to train, teach with us and later be a skilled worker or a skilled worker with us. I would also like to say something to you, Mr Kickl, now that You probably go back to hyperventilating [[Abg. Kickl: Ha!]] Also a Muhammad can build a photovoltaic system and a Muhammad is then a freedom fighter for a Europe that is independent of Russia. [[Abg. Kickl: Yeah, sure!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But we're dependent on Muhammad then! From those who come from somewhere else! But that doesn't fit together anymore!]] Mr Kickl, your fear of alienation has already given you sufficient reason today, and it will not become more credible. [[Abg. Kickl: You need labour from somewhere and talk about independence! Hello?]] [[Abg. Kickl: But you make yourself dependent on I don't know who!]] We are in a situation where there are so many crises and in which the liberals are trying to raise another crisis because they find no answer to all the other crises. Where is your package when it comes to energy prices? Where is it? Their credibility when it comes to entrepreneurs in our country? Where are the concrete proposals on tax policy, on the reduction of taxes? Nothing of which the Freedom Party submits, you simply submit that you are afraid of strangers. [[Abg. Worm: dozens of applications, dozens since May last year!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Just because you don't know that, that doesn't mean it's not...! ... sleep!]] There's no solution to this. I would like to tell you two or three points which are very central from our point of view. – The level of excitement of the liberals tells me that you are likely to meet a wounded point if you are accused that you are not presenting solutions, but only incite fear. I would like to highlight three very specific points: If we do not do a few meters at energy prices if, as Parliament, we do not think about solutions for all sectors, how actually a transformation can take place, and if a simple guest house in a local core can switch to renewable energies, where this is possible, with all the problems associated with them – monument protection, environmental impact assessment for larger projects, renewables and so on – then in one, two, three years we will have much greater problems and much more concerns than what you describe in the request. Secondly, if we – and this is just as important – do not now actively take up work and find work abroad that strengthens our economy, which actually brings the added value that our social system finances, then there is no tomorrow for our economy either, because then businesses will have to leave. The third point is just as central from my point of view: If we do not work together to make a clear effort to reduce taxes and taxes, to simplify administration significantly, then there will be no future either. [[Abg. Kickl: You could start once in Vienna!]] These are examples, and I would really like from you, from the Freedom Party, so much that you will also bring in your intellect and creativity and present concrete solutions. [[Abg. Kickl: But you could start in Vienna, there you are in government responsibility!]] This application, which has been written down for years, is the same every time. They try with a single package to just startle fear, because you seem to be afraid to put other solutions on the table. Austria has earned more than what you put there. It has earned the entrepreneurs more than what you are laying down, and, honestly, I think, it is also more possible than what you have offered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6089	Mr Peter Wurm is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6124	Mr President. Minister! War, we have war – economic war, war of attack, war of defense, just war, holy war, total war, world war, nuclear war, propaganda war. We've heard that since spring 2022. On the Commission's Clearly, peace does not speak to anyone or when, only extremely reluctant. If I think back to the early days of February 2022 and if I am listening to the speakers of these four political groups, the so-called Unity Party in Austria, then I note that, as a liberal, I am almost confronted with the accusation that we are working for a peace policy, for a de-escalation, and that this is terrible. That is to say, one has to apologise as a liberal for a peace policy, a neutral policy and a de-escalation in Austria. We have had to apologise for this for months now and let us fall the accusations of you as a four-member group. It is actually a staircase of history. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happens instead? – If only I remember yesterday, all the words that played out there: Persistence paroles like in a real war, here in the Austrian Parliament; “Bringing teeth together” says the President or President Van der Bellen; Doubts, questions or talk about it that is not appropriate, the EIA has made us judge. Doubt? - Please! Have doubts or questions, talk about it? – No, please, that’s very gaga, very terrible, you can’t do that! We're on the side of the Ukrainians. – All four fractions sit here in the warm, none of you are on the front or send the children, their own children to the front, but you say you are on the side of the Ukrainians. You may pay or let us all pay, but even you don't stand anywhere. Even you are nowhere, and that has nothing to do with attitude. Peace policy would be the announcement that we should make here in Austria, rather than shed any crocodile tears. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the question arises, and the citizens outside ask themselves this: Who pays all this?, and above all: Who benefits from this story? So: Who pays the price? – That is, I believe, clearly, felt for us in Austria, for the citizens: We all and above all the simple citizens pay the price. The elites in Austria do not pay him, and many who sit here and open their mouths do not pay him because they can easily pay it, but millions of Austrians pay the price. And one thing I can tell you, too: Millions of Russians pay the price. You don't think about them at all. Suddenly, the Russian is the enemy – like 70 years ago, the Russian, all Russians are evil, all Russians are bad. [[Abg. Scherak: Who says that? Who says that, Peter?]] And if we make that right, try to bring it into the balance, then suddenly we're like the Russians the evil ones. All of a sudden, we're the Putin understandings. You've been blaming us for months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] But you condemn all Russia, you insult all Russia and you take all Russia hostage. And the price is paid by the simple people, never by the elites in this country – neither in this country nor in Russia. As a matter of fact, the subject could still be deepened now, about the global crisis, the global interests of power, I can simply say one thing to you, because the speaking time is very limited: I have learned from my relatives, who were themselves at war, who have experienced the war, and the message I have heard is quite clear: You have to stop or end the war wherever it goes. And I'll give you this message. There is always a way to achieve peace, otherwise our ancestors would never have found peace in countless wars. So: Back to peace and an end to this horrendous sanctions policy and escalation policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6183	The word is now known as Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6231	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Before I address myself with my words to the questioners of the FPÖ, I would like to give a sentence on SPÖ-College Laimer for the best. Mr Laimer, have you perhaps confused the place where you have just spoken? This is the Austrian Parliament and not the Federal Party. If you worship Mr Doskozil so much that it is no longer worth to you that your Mrs. Rendi-Wagner said there is no asylum problem in Austria, then, I would like to tell you, bring it to the Federal Party Conference and say there that you are for a new party or a new party observer, but don't come here and try not to shake the Federal Government if You have problems in your own ranks, Mr Laimer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was only one word on colleague Doskozil in 2015 that the former police director Doskozil ordered the refugees from Budapest across the border with Nickelsdorf that they could move on. [[Abg. Einwallner: Is this a cabaret stage, or what is it now? Do you want to be particularly funny today?]] He was still dealing with open arms. You could say this once to Mr Doskozil: he should finally change his policy and not simply resort to the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if we debate today a question with which a Mr Kickl wants to make the people aware that he might be better in such a crisis situation, then, I believe, it is important and necessary to point out once what colleague Kickl did when he was in a power function, namely when he was Minister of the Interior. [[Call the FPÖ: We know that!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ausreisezentrum!]] What was the first thing he said? – The right to follow politics and not vice versa, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Right! Who makes the laws?]] Now you understand exactly what you're doing. In the course of the speech by the Minister of the Interior today, how many people, after a negative decision, had taken an appeal. The misunderstanding shows how Mr. Kickl, Minister of the Interior, ticks: He's one who wants to take away justice from people. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's wrong! We don't need such an interior minister in Austria! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Blimlinger.]] [[Abg. Ries: Blockier applause!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Mr Gerstl, it was true that you had been removed from the Committee of Inquiry!]] He was an interior minister who marched into his own constitutional protection to spread fear and terror there so that the police could not fulfill their task there. He was an interior minister who concentrated refugees in one place – a bad person who thinks that he did not think of anything else at concentration. He was one who wanted to make a refugee center into an exit center. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: What are you doing...?]] He was an interior minister who wanted to stop laushing and sparing attacks on right-wing extremism in Austria. He was an interior minister who wanted to abolish the report on crimes of right-wing extremism. He was an interior minister who sent Vasals of his party to the Constitutional Protection to spy on them. He was an interior minister who wanted to build a parallel structure in all the national police departments. We only know this from past centuries, ladies and gentlemen, we never want anything like it again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ries: We know this from the ÖVP!]] He was an interior minister who, when Ibiza flew up, did not even inform President Hofer about what was going on just to take over the power in his party and to slow him down. That's the man Kickl he's really. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Did you look at any horror series yesterday?]] What do Vladimir Putin and Herbert Kicklnoch have in common? – They have the largest cabinet in their environment, which has ever happened to a Minister of the Interior, and Kickl has encapsulated himself just as Vladimir Putin has ensnared himself because he himself is just as afraid of the conspiracy that exists around him. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Go, please!]] Whoever locks himself can't be for freedom, ladies and gentlemen. It is not surprising, therefore, that the President of the Federal Republic released him and that he wanted to use today's urgent request only for revenge on the President of the Federal Republic. [[Abg. Hafenecker: It was good that we excluded you from the investigation committee!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Vengeance is not a good advice in times of crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] In times of crisis, it is said to stand together and not to put revenge and fear in the foreground. [[Abg. Kickl: Explain that to the Sachslehner!]] This is the wrong policy, and people understand it quite differently. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Are you talking about the Van der Bellen?]] People also stand together, they make their own arrangements. They're tired of these interior ministers and they never want them again.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6505	Mag.a. Ruth Becher is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6529	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe just a word to my previous speaker to remind you who made this happen at the time: In 2015, Ms Mikl-Leiter was Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] “Austria needs prosperity and security instead of EU sanctions”: With this title, I thought of three good friends. The one has fled from Kyrgyzstan – she is now a senior physician in an Austrian hospital – and the other with two children from Chechnya alone. One of her two sons is now a sub-offer with the German army, the other computer specialist, she herself is working in a social profession. The third one from Bosnia has fled during the war. A son of hers is working at a bank and the second is currently maturing. Of course, there are also people who do not comply with our laws. There's nothing we need to beautify, that's everywhere. In fact, however, we can agree on one point – that is what Viktor Frankl said: There are only two types of people: decent and indecent people. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, but those you call do not want these developments either!]] That's why, I think, it's not possible now. They are, I believe, just about playing people against each other in this state. In the midst of a serious crisis, there is no time to change political change here. The damage has been done in my view for a long time. If we are talking about prosperity and security, we also need to talk about social security, which is currently in danger of slipping away. We have an inflation rate of more than 10 percent, and this, of course, shakes the economy enormously. People can afford their lives less and less. Let's take a look at the cost of living! The government does not intervene there, but the starting point would be particularly important now, because the Austrians have a huge wealth of housing. One million flats alone are non-profit apartments, and inflation in this area increases the rents enormously. In fact, the bill is quite simple: Whoever doesn't have to pay so much to the landlord at the beginning of the month remains alive enough at the end of the month. The government would be urgently urged to do something in this area. We now have inflation, and in November the reference rent will rise for the third time. This is a total increase of 17.5 percent. We, the SPÖ, demand a freezing of rental prices up to normalization of inflation. [[Abg. Hanger: Why don't you do this in Vienna?]] At the time, at the so-called cooperative apartments, we imposed a reduction in the run-out annuities. This has been reintroduced in 2019, and people have to continue paying the last rent, the high rent. All the housing rights reforms that the government has made have led to an increase in the cost of living, it has not become cheaper. [[Abg. Kickl: But the SPÖ is still at the social rate at the party headquarters!]] There is legal certainty in renting, and I think a contract security is something quite, quite important. [[Abg. Kickl: You could pay more voluntarily!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Be solidarian!]] They simply intervene, don't worry about anything and increase rents for people enormously. [[Abg. Hanger: We are not in the Vienna Landtag!]] [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Kickl.]] In summary, you can say: What we can immediately improve is social security. People in our country deserved this. This is important, and that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6646	Mag.a Nina Tomaselli is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6670	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Advisors and See you here and at home! Today, I would like to address my words to those political groups who have not requested and convened today's meeting, to those groups which do not wish to participate in divisions and discord, to those groups which support solidarity and cohesion as European values, which must also be kept high in times of difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many discussions and debates here. These discussions are often marked by disagreements, also by very, very narrow disagreements, but that is democracy, that is debate culture. What democracy needs, however, especially in stormy times – we also need – is a voice of peace and stability – I believe, very, very many of us in this House are in agreement on this matter – a voice that is just looking for compensation and not pouring oil into the fire, if it is already brittle. The times, so much is safe, won't be easier. It is all the more important that the Austrians can continue to count on a rock in the branding in the Hofburg. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What? A rock in the burn is that supposed to be? For God's sake!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Didn't you think of anything better?]] – It is clear that you are upset, Mr Kickl. We have all learned in recent years how relevant the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is for a functioning state structure. Especially in times of crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it does not matter who leads the country. Now, above all, the counter-calls from the ranks of the liberals, but, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, when I listened to you yesterday with very many unscrupulous speeches, I often thought: Man, I'm so glad that at that time, when Ibiza really threw the Republic into severe turbulence, Van der Bellen held the office, because everyone, even at home, may ask: How would one of you have responded to the video that documented the fact that the FPÖ chancellor had been trapped by a Russian oligarchy, a Russian oligarchist who would probably have had the alarm bells shriek at any other one of us? He's also located good shops there. What would be in these turbulent weeks after the 17th century? May 2019 happens if one of you, of the FPÖ, had been president? [[Abg. Kickl: Tell us?! What would have happened?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: No coup government, for example! And you're still not in Parliament!]] Instead, Van der Bellen, as a reliable guardian of our constitution, has walked through the wallpaper door as you all remember this picture, and has really led the Republic through the crisis you, dear colleagues from the FPÖ, have just crashed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: such a fool!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: The crisis has happened by your re-entry into Parliament!]] The Federal President is a truly important institution of stability. [[Abg. Kickl: 14 transformations – and talk about stability!]] We have seen over the past six years that the official has done this very, very well. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, yes! Why don't you wear a headcloth?]] It is important to all of us – once again, the political groups that have not convened this meeting today – that a democrat is in the Hofburg, a politician of reason, one who also provides stability in stormy times. This stability, ladies and gentlemen, can be chosen on Sunday. Please go and choose! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6814	Mrs Dr.in Stephanie Krisper spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e6838	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! If you listen today, you might think: This poor federal government, now it already has so many problems, and then so many people still want to come on the way through the Western Balkans route to us. – If you look at the facts, then the problem field can be limited. For this, it is clear: This has to account for the ÖVP through failure and false loyalty over the last ten years. It is now not really the strength of the FPÖ to limit a problem on the subject. The FPÖ wants to make much better use of these problems created by the ÖVP today, because of the title of this urgent request. But let's start with falsifying the FPÖ hysteria: ==References====External links== First of all, the word asylumant: The FPÖ acts as if so many would come without need for protection. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Yes, they say that themselves!]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Federal Minister Karner) That's what he said!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: A minister will not lie!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, yes!]] You, Minister Karner, help the FPÖ with your confusion game. But the fact is according to your numbers: The top two applicants are still refugees of war from Afghanistan and Syria. They alone make up 40 percent of asylum seekers and need obvious protection. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Question: Is war an asylum ground?]] [[Abg. Kickl: But why are they with us?]] The FPÖ is talking about an attack, there are so inconceivably many asylum applications. We also owe this hysterical argument to your unreasonable action, Minister of the Interior, because you always refer to asylum applications as relevant sizes. [[Abg. Hafenecker: a hundred a day!]] But they don't have a say, I'd like to tell you again. They say nothing about how many protection seekers in Austria are provided and actually have a procedure here, so for our authorities here very likely are a challenge. What figures do we find out about this? – The figures of those who have just been provided here, and they have not changed in recent years, they are commuting by 19 000. In 2015, there were 58 000 asylum seekers, who had been provided with the groundwork for us. So comparisons with 2015, FPÖ, are an unreasonable fear. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now, when you put the newspapers down: Pictures of homeless asylum seekers under the open sky. It is heard that they have to sleep in front of closed stations during the night. Why is this so if the figures in basic supply have not really increased? – Because the Ministry of the Interior fails in its initial supply. People could and should actually come to first-shot centres such as Traiskirchen. [[Abg. Belakovich: They should actually stay at home!]] Traiskirchen, however, is full. [[Abg. Hafenecker: With Indians!]] Why is Traiskirchen full, since there are no more people in basic care? – Because, in particular, the ÖVP federal states do not keep their promises to include authorised asylum seekers in the federal states. How many percent are there already in Traiskirchen? - In the meantime 75. Traiskirchen should therefore only be used up to 25 percent. The arriving should be able to accommodate there and get a roof over the head. I sometimes ask myself the question: What about a flood, an earthquake? Would it be like that as an Austrian? Would we be so badly cared for? – Of course not because the ÖVP is only about acting in this way with asylum seekers, in a group of people on whose backs they have already successfully fought some election campaign. The ministers of the ÖVP do not want us to be well placed in the help. They have completely failed to improve this after 2015 in recent years. For example, they do not speak a serious word with their ÖVP princes of darkness in the federal states, so that they finally take up asylum seekers. They purchase that people are under-supplyed and therefore cannot accommodate them – completely absurdly, Mr. Interior Minister – after your action has taken a lot of effort from our police officers at the border, and say in the “crown” only: “ You must not stop travelers. ” – How crazy is that? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The chaos has to answer you and your previous Minister of the Interior from the ÖVP. - That's it. European level: You have also done nothing to ensure that there is a common efficient asylum system. Mr Chancellor said yesterday, next to Orbán and Serbian President Vucić: The EU asylum system has failed. That's more than dramatic. - That's right. He forgot to add: We as ÖVP are also responsible for this because you have leaned back after 2015. You didn't care that, dear FPÖ, the refugees and migrants, after leaving their home region in one country after another, experience violence and breach of justice, and one country after another, this leads them every day and makes them feel it. If you do not have any compassion, dear ÖVP and FPÖ, then at least you show your thinking ability – I have already told Mr Karl Nehammer, Minister of the Interior: If in Greece parents who have fled have to beg their children because they are not provided if refugees cannot apply for asylum in Hungary because there is no access to the asylum system, then try to continue, dear FPÖ – simply for a decent life. [[Abg. Belakovich: We should imitate that!]] Sometimes, thanks to the push-backs, they don't move on. I have experienced in Bosnia itself that children, coming from Syria, play a game on the yawny meadow next to a broken tent. They call it: The Game. A child plays the family father who says: Asylum, please, asylum! The other child plays the beating cop. - They're stuck there. Is that a solution? [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's not all right with the police, what you're saying!]] What safe country do you think, FPÖ, that the refugees are going to cross to us where they should stay? Every country, which, like these countries, tries to make life hell as possible for asylum seekers, is not only losing sight of people, but is also extremely unolidarian towards the other countries. Of course, many want to join us. Now the Federal Government is still solidifying itself with these unsolidarians, the right-wing breakers, just yesterday, because after Karl Nehammer, as Minister of the Interior of the Interior of the Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis, under which the violence against people, the drowning-lasses in the sea and the misery in the camps were systematically appreciated, he stood up yesterday as chancellors with Orbán and Vucić. I missed the European flag in the background. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It was not right there, for what these gentlemen are doing is: They swirl at the downward spiral towards the breaking of justice, violence and chaos, which at many borders then beat people back to nowhere – as we have now been documented by doctors without borders at the Hungarian-Serbian border, where Austrian officials are also in use. That's where we expect a monitoring, and until then I'm very much expecting perceptions from our police in intensive cooperation, because otherwise something is wrong. [[Call to the ÖVP: A captivating speech!]] What's that supposed to do? Why aren't we with the solidarity and law-abiding in an alliance? Why do we not call in the EU law breaking in Europe by 2015 at the latest? Take good care of the asylum seekers, otherwise there is a breach procedure! That's what we're looking at. We demand: If it does not hit back at the border, give them a fair and fast procedure and, depending on the output, integrates it or suspends it, because deportation in cases where there is no cause for protection, is the best and a human deterrence! Why has our government not said the following since 2015? From now on, the procedures between us EU countries will be fairly divided, in fair procedures everywhere we have agreed. So far, we've been involved on an above average, now you're on it! – We would benefit most from a division ratio. However, the ÖVP would have to admit that it has contributed to the disastrous status quo through its unscrupulous policy. As I already know from the Committee of Inquiry: She's more excited than admitting. [[Call the ÖVP:Completed?]] Et voilà, then I come to you, Minister of the Interior, who has been stressing since day one as a minister in your favorite pedestal that you want to continue your predecessor Karl Nehammer consistently. So you're probably gonna continue to skip that madness, but I'm not giving up anyway. Minister of the Interior, I ask you: Stop leading the way of the ÖVP on asylum towards violence and chaos! Work for working human solutions! Finally, contribute to the rule of law, order and discharge of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7061	The next speaker is Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7091	Don't worry, Mr. Hafenecker. In reality, the debate has also been quite unloving with you today. It's good, Mr. Hafenecker, that you're still talking about me. Why? I tried yesterday to get a clear answer from the FPÖ, after this escalation, which took place last week, in two respects. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not an hour, Mr President.]] I'll tell you something. I counted yesterday, and there were 30 calls from you. Give me the opportunity - - no, by the Group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You are not alone in the world, Mrs Belakovich, there are also a few other liberal Members. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS]] Although I have to tell you: One has already recognized the limits of the FPÖ. He's behind me. The last time he was your presidential candidate, now he is satisfied with being a municipal councillor in Pinkafeld. I should like to congratulate the preferred votes. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Black.]] You will also see your limits next Sunday: You'll be far from the outcome of Hofer, I'll tell you now. [[Abg. Kickl: You celebrate with Van der Bellen!]] You're going to be far away because the party you're making here, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, that's a isolation, and there's one with Putin: [[Abg. Kickl: You'll be surprised!]] He too is driving Russia more and more into isolation, and you here in the house the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of ÖVP) If someone is isolated, then you...!]] They are insulating the FPÖ more and more. The reasonable among you remember that. You'll still notice that. [[Abg. Kickl: As Director-General... to the no longer going! Except if you're completely disabled, then you can come back again!]] – This is exactly your choice of words: “delegated”, the Federal President is the “Oberpapagei” for you. [[Abg. Kickl: Exactly!]] You should be ashamed of this choice of words. [[Abg. Kickl: No!]] – Yes, because that is also contemptuous. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A Federal President is not a parrot! Think about it! These comparisons from the animal world you're taking fit exactly in your picture. Mr Klubobmann Kickl, I would have expected – Hafenecker will speak after me – that you tell the Austrians how you see it. Do you see this violent annexion of these four Ukrainian regions, Luhansk, Donetsk, Zaporishhja and Cherson, as legal? Do you think that's the right thing to do? [[Abg. Deimek:... not careful!]] I would have liked to know about you. Are you still talking about Putin not waging an attack war here? I would have liked to know about you. And if you see that as legal, you say it. If You don't see it as legal, then you'd have to be also for the sanctions. Or should you just take everything? [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] Just take the death of thousands as you want? [[Call to the FPÖ: How do you stand for Kosovo?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Where were the sanctions against the United States,... mass extermination camps...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It's good that you come to think. I'm telling you, that's good. The second point: Of course, it was right that yesterday the Federal Chancellor met with Vucić and with Orbán, well, of course. First of all: No one can choose his neighbors. Secondly, You have to work with your neighbors as much as possible. And we need Orbán and we need Vucić. If he makes the change as far as the visa is concerned, if he closes this snowfall, then this is a very, very important step, because we should really start with external border protection instead of thinking about how to get to rapid deportations. [[Abg. Kickl: Then it becomes exciting how the position of India to Kosovo is!]] It's right what the Federal Chancellor did there yesterday, absolutely right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister for the Interior has already given a very detailed opinion. See, the “New Zurich Newspaper” took place on 27 July. “Serbia is developing into a hub for migration across the Balkan route” wrote correctly on September 1. [[showing a copy of the newspaper with the quoted article]] Therefore, Vucić is the right contact person. By the way, if you have missed it, the ÖVP has never changed its position on refugee policy. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] When we were with you in the government, we represented this position. Now we're with the Greens in the government. We have a clear line here: If someone wants to come to us to improve his economic situation, that's too little. That's what we're saying quite clearly. If someone – as is the case with the Indians – has no chance of getting asylum status, then you have to tell people quite clearly. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you can vote today! Please vote with me today!]] We don't need any calls from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We're ready to go.]] I'll be right there. Yes, the migration pressure on Europe is huge. This migration pressure will not decrease if I think about Africa in particular. It is all the more important to find a clear language here. What we need to work on is a European solution. [[Abg. Kassinger: We've heard that for 15 years!]] I'll give you that right. We're still a long way from that. As long as this is not possible, we will work with our neighbours as best we can, and as has already been said by the Minister of the Interior, Hungary is very important to us, and we also need the support of Serbia, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7391	Next speaker is Mag.a Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7420	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! High house! Dear spectators! At today's special meeting, I would like to focus on the issues of prosperity and security in Austria. Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. The social security system in Austria is closely linked to our successful social state. Playing people against each other certainly does not increase security in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Unlike the FPÖ, security does not mean simply closing the borders for us. Security means to us that people in Austria know how to pay tomorrow their rent, their heating costs, the electricity bill or the food. The first ÖGB President Johann Böhm has carried out very well: “Social security is the most reliable basis of democracy.” [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] However, the social peace in Austria must continue to be protected and maintained. At present, the situation is getting worse. Inflation is at a high level and the burden on people is rising to the immeasurable. The Federal Government is hiding in the meantime and does not want to work. Other EU countries have already recognised the seriousness of the situation. We could go along with Germany to introduce a gas price cap and thus protect the economy and people, but instead of actually easing people and making life manageable for them, the government parties introduced the CO2 tax yesterday and therefore heated the pressure wave further. ÖVP and Greens also voted yesterday against the decoupling of the electricity price from the gas price, the so-called Meritorder. For us, the typical ÖVP client policy is: The Group's profits are to be further increased and the people in Austria are to pay for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But not only at energy prices we get to feel the high inflation, but also the cost of food increases rapidly. We therefore urge the Federal Government to remove VAT on food. In a solidarity society, it should be obvious that those who need it most should get support quickly. I am thinking, above all, of pensioners, but above all of people with disabilities. The price bonus was poured out with the casting can, without regard to the personal circumstances of the people. Real social justice looks different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7475	Magnificence comes to the fore. Markus Koza. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7499	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have a pressing question in front of us, which is supposed to be a matter of prosperity and security. I say that because we find much in this urgent request and also in the request, there is only relatively little to be found on the subject of prosperity and security. One finds what has usually come from the FPÖ in recent weeks, in recent months, in recent years. In recent weeks, it has been the question of EU sanctions policy against poor Russia, and otherwise we find the usual: It threatens again an asylum storm, it will again distribute money to the asylum seekers, whatever. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's and after today's sitting, I have a few questions, namely that if the FPÖ submits any applications or sets up any initiatives, more and more questions remain than answers: I ask if there really is anyone – in this country or at all – who actually thinks that a small country like Austria is able to escape the inflation spiral off the international community alone. My second question is whether anyone really believes that the question of energy supply, energy prices, is whether this crisis can be dealt with apart from any international cooperation without international contracts. Another question is whether anyone in this country really has someone in view of the shortage of labour that we have in more and more sectors – I am thinking only of the social and health sectors, which depend entirely on the fact that we have as many people as possible who want to work with us and who very often have a migrant background – believes that it could work if we no longer have this colleague: women among us. I'm actually wondering. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who is to believe that in this country? Finally, the question arises whether anyone really seriously believes that this backward policy of the FPÖ actually represents the interests of the workers. [[Call the FPÖ:... voters!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a look at the welfare of society, which is what FPÖ has brought to people's prosperity in the last 22 years, in which it has been part of the government, or what the prosperity you think was or is, because there are often very far apart theory and practice. If a party acts as a party of small people, as a social home party, then it will become suspicious once again. There is often little social and small part of it. It's interesting: In 2000, there was a black and blue coalition, and the unemployment benefit, the net replacement rate was reduced to 55 percent, where the valorization of unemployment benefit and emergency aid was abolished. [[Onions at the Greens]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] With what voices? – With the voices of the FPÖ, the small-people party. [[Abg. Kickl: What was introduced? The childcare allowance was introduced!]] In 2003, 2004, under a liberal social minister, the most stringent pension reduction reform has ever been decided, which could only be a bit mitigated because the trade unions brought tens of thousands of people to the streets at the time, which must be said quite clearly. At the time, a criminal tax on sick people was also decided with the votes of the FPÖ, the so-called ambulance fee, which was gladly abolished by the VfGH at that time – also a classic policy that brings prosperity, especially for the small people in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Let us now remember the previous legislative period, Turquoise-Blue, when a basic social assistance law was passed under a FPÖ Minister of Social Affairs, who claimed that of 150 euros one could live without further. This was a basic social assistance law which particularly affected women who were subjected to violence. – Yes, they wanted to meet the asylum seekers:innen. In fact, they have met the women who are sitting in the centres of violence. That's how it looks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fortunately, we were able to pull some teeth, although not all of them. Not least, under a FPÖ Minister of Social Affairs, a health reform was also decided, which ultimately deposed workers: women in the UK. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in short: When it comes to prosperity, the FPÖ certainly does not represent the interests of this Republic and people in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by briefly asking a question to a former Minister for Social Affairs: Who secures prosperity in this country? [[Abg. Worm: The FPÖ!]] Who creates prosperity in this country? – The FPÖ certainly not! [[Call the FPÖ:The Freeman!]] Remember that at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7620	Mr Andreas Kollross spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7644	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! Granted, we are currently experiencing the probably worst crises in the Second Republic, but we must also admit that we are also experiencing the worst government in the Second Republic. [[Abg. Black: Really?]] This is not only for ideological reasons, but unfortunately the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank are also very unspeakable in terms of political implementation. [[Abg. Deimek: That's right!]] For example, Nehammer goes to Orbán to serve the lowest instincts with his ÖVP love theme Migration. Today, the FPÖ wants to bring its asylum theme back into a failed federal presidential election campaign to mobilize the core voters:internality. In fact, energy is still too cheap for the greens, and they also raise heating costs and inflation by a CO2 price. At the same time, many people live on the brink of their existence. For many, life is no longer manageable. The shopping weights are less and less filled with the same amount of money. [[Abg. Worm: Therefore choose FPÖ to strengthen the liberals!]] People are afraid that they will not be able to heat in autumn and winter. You just have to ask yourself the questions: Are you all right? How far away can one be from the realities of human life?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How far we can be from the realities of life also shows what the government has set in motion so far in terms of inflation and inflation. There are, for example, this 500 Euro voucher or 500 Euro transferred to the account. [[Abg. Maurer: Is that nothing?]] – And on the subject of craftsmanship: You can't even transfer 500 euros within one month. You do not even manage to transfer this money to those people who have set up an account at FinanzOnline, but send out any vouchers so that a group from France will earn 21 million euros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS]] That's your emergency help, that's your fastest help. These 500 euros, which you spend so generously – apart from the fact that people have paid for it for several times for themselves – do not cover these 500 euros at Weitem, which people have spent for the last eight, nine or ten months at the gas station, in shopping, for energy, for electricity, gas and so on. This is a drop on the hot stone, and that means that once again you only fight the symptom, but not the cause. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you were to fight the cause, you would not send vouchers, but at last introduce a price cap, then you would finally decouple the electricity price from the gas price. But you don't, but you think you can solve this problem with price or inflation with a voucher. This is about as if you think you could treat a leg break with a patch of Arielle, the mermaid. That makes sense, ladies and gentlemen, in reality. What has not yet been addressed today, as so often, is the situation of the communities, the situation of the associations, the social life of our country. In fact, it is not only the economy that suffers, it not only the people suffer from the cost, but also the communities suffer from the cost. In the municipalities there is a tenfold increase in energy prices in street lighting, kindergartens, schools and so on, and there is no solution on the part of the government at all, how to counter this. What does that mean at the end of the day? – At the end of the day, that means to all of us, because we all live in a community, performance cuts. Either there are reductions in performance or charges are increased, because what do the municipalities – Mr. Interior Minister, you once were mayors – do when it comes, for example, to waste disposal, water supply or waste water disposal? – Each municipality is obliged to keep the budget of fees: When energy prices rise, charges automatically increase, and that means that citizens will be taxed again. This is the result of your policy on vouchers, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why a price cap is finally included. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Schnitzelgutschein!]] You will also implement it, all of Europe will implement this price cap – you just can't introduce it now, because otherwise you would have to give the SPÖ right, which has been calling for it for months! For this reason, you will now discuss what you can call it, perhaps you will not say a price cover for it, then let another word come to your mind, but at the end it will come, for otherwise, inflation and inflation cannot be fought. The only question is how long citizens have to suffer from this party policy. Do it at last and put the price cap in place! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7762	The next speaker is Mr Michel Reimon. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e7783	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Apprenticeships at home! Two things have happened in the political Austria this morning. First: The coalition has presented a huge pension increase package. Almost 6 per cent pension increase for all, over 8 per cent for average and over 10 per cent for pensioners: women with compensation, for minimum pensions. That's what's really happening. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. With the right hand, Loacker wipes over the open left hand several times quickly and turns in all directions.]] Then something else happens: The Liberals here in Parliament are requesting a special session on 'Foreignness and security'. It is the first time that a special meeting of the Austrian National Council is held on behalf of a foreign power. On behalf of a foreign power, a National Council meeting is abused here. [[Abg. Kickl: You are really no longer to save!]] [[Abg. Steger: Slowly this is a satire project!]] It's the question of how to deal with this when you're prepared for something like this, but you make it easy, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl: In your first sentence, you'll introduce yourself to the speaker's desk and you'll throw someone into your first sentence to be a traitor. Then it's about people having a half brain, being "branchers" or anything else. [[Abg. Kickl: The Mahrer said that!]] If you refer to others as traitors, then of course it is only legitimate to say one thing to you: If you are taking a meeting for Putin here, you are probably a traitor of what this National Council should stand for! That's sad, that's very sad. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutors Kickl and Steger.]] I told you yesterday: If you are actually using a National Council meeting to provide a foreign carcrat here with the service to carry out its policy, then you should better resign. [[Abg. Steger: Can you also bring an argument?]] [[Abg. Kickl: No, we do it for the Austrians, but that you don't understand anything, don't wonder me!]] It doesn't surprise me that you don't, because what else should you hack – with a aborted philosophy study and there For 30 years you have done nothing other than party strategy, have done nothing but a party job – you can do nothing else! [[Abg. Kickl: But very successful – successful in contrast to you!]] But this is a problem for this Republic, because you only make strategy - - – that says the right one, at the age of 20 private economy! [[call to the FPÖ.]] I hacked something out there, unlike Mr Kickl – now I would almost have said Putin. It's a problem if you just run more party strategy and abuse the National Council on every occasion and make policy in this direction. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You won’t decide who is using something and who is what...! Absolutely totalitarian!]] Use each time You have your electorate, and it's perfectly up to you how they're doing. [[Abg. Hauser: I hope that this speech has many spectators!]] I've been looking at it again today: ==References== March 2 years ago we had the first corona death, and you know what you were doing on 13 March. Did you say March? ==References== March 2 years ago, you turned to the speaker's desk and said that everyone who stays at home in the lockdown is a hero – a hero! You have called for the hardest lockdown possible. [[Abg. Kickl: We learned and you didn't!]] ==References====External links== This entered into force on March. At that time you were for it, and then you noticed that a different attitude benefits you strategically, and then you even recommended horse worms to people! [[Abg. Kickl: Then we noticed you lied!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] You sell your own population to manufacturers of horse worms if it is necessary for the strategy of FPÖ, and you also sell them to Putin. – That’s not how it works, and that’s a problem! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Hauser and Mr Kickl.]] We will have a sign in the Austrian National Council, I have talked to colleagues – here is the place of democracy where we talk about what the Republic benefits from what is useful to the people here –: All four parties will agree to this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would like to make the following request to support these sanctions and a common European policy: [[Call the FPÖ: Unit wide!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You need an application for this now?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Rarely bad request!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Steger: So no sanctions at all?- Oh, my God!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Kickl: I thought you'd do it all anyway!]] Valuables! They have the opportunity to express themselves in the interest of this Republic in the same way as all other Members here – or we are talking about traitors. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8189	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Christian Hafenecker is now reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Reimon, I have just thought about whether I should address your speech a little bit, but I will leave it now because I am sorry about the time. But one thing is clear to me now, namely why the Greens are so much behind it that drugs are released in this country – this speech may have something to do with it. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps still to colleagues. Lopatka: With Mr Jachs and Mr Lopatka, we have noticed that the black Members in the House are now gradually weakening that the mandates are becoming scarce. They get confused and twist in their speeches that it's almost embarrassing. Mr Lopatka, quite frankly: If you are now giving the anti-russian fighter here, then you have to say that your explorer and sponsor Wolfgang Schüssel had a board mandate at Lukoil and did not want to put it back until the end! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes and?]] What did you talk to the secret chamber? That would interest me, Mr Lopatka, that would be interesting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also be interested in what you are discussing with your colleague, Mr Stelzer, and also with the head of the Chamber of Commerce of Mahrer. Perhaps you will talk to the Secretary-General before, as he sees it, perhaps also with the colleague of the cable car industry in Tyrol, who has always had pleasure when the Russians drove him on the cable car. Do not act like that, and be honest, Mr President. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Back to the topic: Mr Stocker said earlier: “The Murmeltier greets you daily!” Yes, that's how I do when I hear every day that someone from the ÖVP – that's just an exchange of faces – has once again closed a Balkan route! Mr Federal Minister, you have not done anything like that in recent years. Yesterday, there may have been a seat circle with the Federal Chancellor, but I would be interested in what was actually done there. We have known for years that visa problems in Serbia and Kosovo are one of the main invading gates for asylum seekers, which ultimately land with us. What exactly happened yesterday? We will close the bag now, Minister of State, because I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want, Minister of State, to see clear fronts created at last. We want you not to have another meeting, but to come home with an agreement that says that this visa problem is solved – that is the task we want to give you here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are always saying that you cannot foresee certain things, I can help you, Federal Minister. Have you ever heard of the caravan of light? – This one has just set itself in motion: The caravan of the light is a huge stream of refugees moving in Turkey towards the Bulgarian border. Also, the managing Minister of the Interior of Bulgaria has already complained that there are obviously push-forward actions carried out by Turkey, i.e. people are being pushed there specifically across the Turkish border, they are being pushed over there. They climb with ladders and others via the protective devices, pass through the seaway and so on and so on. That's a problem that's right now. Similar observations have also been made by the Greeks, there are also similar statements there. It was said that they even perceive Turkish vehicles that deliver people there at the border and say to them: Over there is the EU's external border, there you have to go! The Turks make this proactive. Mr Federal Minister, I would be interested in what measures you are taking and how we are actually dealing with these push forwards. You can't let that happen, can you? Where's your reaction to this? Have you ever had the Turkish ambassador quoted in the foreign office, have you spoken about it? Mr Erdoğan does what he always does: It puts pressure on the entire European Union – and on people who have fled. In fact, Mr Federal Minister, you should become active there, but you have not said anything about it today in your Sunday speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So the Turks tell the people that they now have the pain of choice: either they go across the European border or they go back to Syria. - That's definitely what I'm talking about. I would like to address the Greens very briefly. My colleague, Mrs Maurer, has not lost a word on asylum. The only one who said something about it was Mr. Bürstmayr – that's clear: As an asylum attorney, he earns his money in the field, as he almost has to say something about it. I understand that at least you were interested in it. Otherwise, you have only talked about Russia and about any things that Mr Van der Bellen might have written, Mrs Maurer. I would like to recall once again the 2015 book in which he expressed his understanding of Mr Putin and his approach to Crimea. Mrs Maurer, what are you saying? – You have not said a word about this! I can also remind you of a very, very subservient congratulations on Putin's election to the President. Mr Van der Bellen congratulated Mr Putin on his election and said he was hoping for a meeting soon. Mrs Maurer, why have you not mentioned this before? Do you have this with the Lord? Van der Bellen already discussed? If not: Why did this candidate happen to you? That must be embarrassing to you internationally if you set up a Putin understanding as a presidential candidate, Mrs Maurer! Don't you enjoy it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Moreover, this also applies to social democracy: Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you support a Putin understanding! Mr Wöginger, you support a Putin understanding! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] I don't say anything to NEOS, because I don't care who they support, but nevertheless -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8335	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8350	I come to the conclusion: There is only one possible President of the Federal Republic of Austria from the 9th century onwards. October, and that's Dr. Walter Rosenkranz. This is not a Putin understanding like Van der Bellen, but an Austrian understanding, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Poor Walter, he didn't deserve that!]] [[14:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8484	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8519	Mr President. Minister! At the end of today's debate a final word on our part: It was already clear why the FPÖ convened today's meeting on its favorite theme, namely to give Mr Rosenkranz here back cover for Sunday. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Pull back your candidate, he's a Putin understanding!]] But it can almost lead you a little bit, because it was so poor. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and NEOS, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] If you had actually put forward concrete solutions here today, we would even have listened to them, discussed them and received them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We would have considered together how we as Parliament could actually work to improve the situation. The challenges are largely known. [[Abg. Steger:... that you let all in!]] But what did you do here? – You have shown that in the past you were unable to meet these challenges. Mr Kickl, you laugh – you as a former Minister of the Interior know best! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] You have shown that you have not used the time to work as an opposition party on reasonable solutions. [[Abg. Kickl: She still didn't do the inside!]] They also show us once again that, unfortunately, you have nothing to do with short-term populism and polemics to solve all of these challenges that we face. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP, Members of the NEOS and the Agg. Lindner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] In this sense: The parliamentary debate is important, on the other hand, it is a pity for the time when, at the end of the day, there really is no solution, no solutions that we could take into account together here, in order to address all that is in the room, all that is to be dealt with – human rights on the one hand and security policy on the other. [[Abg. Kickl: Live the arrogance! – The ÖVP is just annoying that she has to clap with you!]] This is what the government parties are doing, and we are doing it together – unfortunately today without you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] ChaIndian National month 2 - ShortName
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8635	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Do the clubs want a session break? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, let me vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on the'measure package for the detonation of Austria as a target country for illegal economic migrants and schineasylants'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Michel Reimon, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on “closed EU action for strong joint action in response to the Russian attack war and for full support of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[265/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Hannes Amesbauer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Intensification of bilateral talks with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the prevention of illegal migration flows’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:05:55]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-04-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00176_d8e8722	I declare that the motion for a resolution has been tabled today at the meeting of the House of Independents 2841/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 2.06 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
