ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e6955	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome you very warmly. My greeting is of course also to the journalists, to the guests at the gallery and to the ladies and gentlemen who follow us in front of the television sets. The 156. The meeting of the National Council is thus opened. The official protocols of the 153rd, the 154th and the 155th protocols. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: April 2022 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Members Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Melanie Erasim, MSc, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEdund Dipl.-Ing. are reported as prevented today. Olga Vogluwer. I may announce that ORF 2 will be transferred by 1 p.m. as usual, ORF III will be transferred by 7.30 p.m. and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. Private TV stations also transfer our meeting to parts or to the whole. I can invite all the parliamentary parties once again: ==References== The programme on the SDGs in Parliament will be presented at 6 p.m. in the roof foyer at 6 p.m. on June. [[09:07:02]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7009	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Save the future of care now!” Mr Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). She knows that the speaking time is 10 minutes and is an absolute one. Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7036	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I am very pleased about the current hour, because it is dedicated to a huge, important topic of the future and to an equally huge and important package of reforms that this government has set in motion. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As to the need for a federal government to secure the future of care, it has often been discussed in this House. I can remember – my time here starts in 2013 –: We have repeatedly tabled urgent questions and urgent requests on this subject. The aid organizations in the countries have been crying out for years that it needs something, but so far – up to this package! – little happened. That is why I am very glad that we are now, with Health and Social Minister Johannes Rauch, actually launching the largest care reform package in the last decades. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I was allowed to join the presentation with August Wöginger last week, and I noticed at this press conference that I liked a huge stone from my heart, because this billion-hard package actually means that the already inadequate situation of nurses throughout the country will finally improve. The name Milestone is therefore appropriate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It must be our all claim that people in our country will receive the best possible care, regardless of their income – and that is our demand, we will solve it with this care package. But in its effect, it goes beyond the direct area of care, of course, because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, 80 percent work in the care sector, and in the mobile sector it is even 90 percent. These women do incredible things and have my greatest respect, especially in the context of the extreme burden from the pandemic in the last two years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These women and also the men who work there were accused as heroes of everyday life – but applause does not pay the rent. Accordingly, we are now taking a very important, big step with this package in order to actually improve its situation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, this also applies to care at home, where the care work, where the care is also done to two thirds of women. Here too, our goal is to significantly improve their situation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, more money for care means automatically more money for women in this area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What does this great breakthrough, this care reform, mean? – It means specifically for the people who work in the care profession, for the employees that they receive a monthly salary bonus. On average, this can be up to one month per year. That's exactly what the nurses have been asking about for many years, they say: We need this, the framework conditions are so difficult. – We are now doing this with a total of 520 million euros, with more than half a billion euros that we are taking in here in order to significantly improve the salary situation for the caregivers. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the case of trainees: If you are in initial training, you will receive 600 euros per month or per month of internship. We urgently need people who enter the beautiful care profession. We know we need up to 100 000 nurses in this field by 2030, but we have to be able to afford training at all. That is why we set up a very, very important incentive by setting up a care scholarship of EUR 1 400 – for all those who want to move into the care profession and thus make a training. The criteria for this will also be designed in such a way that it is easily accessible; it does not have to fulfil all that is necessary for other AMS funding. I believe that this is a very important step, because with EUR 1 400, the security of life is guaranteed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Caregivers who support and care for those in need of care and are insured themselves will receive 1 500 euros of family bonus in the future. This is also an important sign, an important support, financial support for women who work primarily there, in order to facilitate their situation. We extend the right to care for three months. We change something in training – Mr Wöginger will certainly describe the care teaching in a comprehensive way in his speech. We are expanding the skills so that better Procedures are possible so that we can create debureaucratisation and thus the caregivers are used as best as possible in the facilities. In the case of immigration with the Red and White Red Card, we also take measures to enable us to actually achieve the number of 100 000 caregivers needed. All these are perhaps abstract points now, but they have a very concrete impact on the reality of life of a million people in Austria who are directly or indirectly affected by this issue. The caregivers, the nurses, the relatives: For all of them, this package means a massive improvement. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will ensure the distribution of this 520 million euro, which we make available in order to significantly improve the salaries of the nursing workers, together with the social partners and the countries. This is exactly where we are at a point that is often difficult in the care debate – in other areas such as the control of pandemics or in the health system we already know this –: Care is the main responsibility of the countries and, accordingly, it is not only the federal government that can act here. But with this huge care reform package, the federal government is putting something on the table, which I must say: Dear countries, there are no more excuses now, so you can really work now! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On this issue I also look into the ranks of social democracy and I address the clear appeal to you: Be partners in this reform, too, and help you in the federal states in which you rule to contribute your share to success! Mr Hacker from Vienna has already welcomed and praised the reform, as well as all the aid organizations, starting with the Caritas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Today in the “Falter” is a big article on the fact that the care reform is really the great throw that has been expected many, many years. I think we can also be a little proud of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A reform of this magnitude can not only be in the interests of a party or a coalition, a reform of this magnitude must be in all our interests. As a result, I hope that the other groups here in Parliament will have broad support. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot about the care emergency in recent years – rightly. The caregivers also went to the streets and drew attention to their difficult situation. The need for care is a worrying formulation, but it illustrates the answer it needs here, namely one that is in a position to resolve this emergency. I think we're going to put them here, so we can deal with the problem at the root. I would also like to say: These are sustainable measures. No one will come to the idea of turning the salaries back in two years. No, these measures remain, and of course they will follow. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this reform, we not only ensure the survival of care, we are developing it massively and thus laying the foundation for a life-worthy future for our and the next generation. Every person will eventually be confronted with this issue in their lives, will have to deal with it, and this care reform will enable us to address this challenge well. My conclusion to this reform and also the conclusion of this speech is: It is the largest care reform package for decades. Please focus on putting them into good practice together, in the sense of the caregivers, the caregivers and the family members in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7220	Point landing. I can very much welcome Mr President-in-Office of the Council and give him the floor. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7244	Mr President. High house! Let me start like this: I have been in politics for a few years now and a lot of feedback, and in politics we usually get a variety of negative feedback. After the presentation of this care reform, I received a lot of positive feedback from the field of care. I'll tell you why. Many and most of these feedbacks have consisted in the fact that caregivers, especially women, but also those in need of care, have said: We've waited so long and we haven't believed in it at all. This is an extremely important signal of appreciation for our profession. We are finally able to talk not only about the difficulties – pandemic, the special framework conditions, the working hours, the loads – but we are able to talk about what a great profession we have. I've heard very often: Please, in politics you also publicly represent the attitude and message: This is a profession that makes joy, it is a profession in which people care for people, that is a profession that is fulfilling and can be. With this care reform, you have created the prerequisite to say that again, and that is enormously important. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank all those who have helped us to take this reform step at Sigi Maurer and August Wöginger, who have closely accompanied and conducted the negotiations and have managed to achieve this 1 billion euro for two years. It has become a care package that sets up both in the width of the measures and in the depth where it is necessary. That is, we must make it possible for people who are now in the care sector to stay there – that is our biggest challenge – because we cannot afford to get away from there due to stress situations, difficult working conditions, poor pay. We need every single person who works in the care today, we need her to stay there. We will achieve this with the improvement measures that are now being taken in the area of salaries, working conditions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second important point: We need a lot of new nurses in the next few years. In addition, each professional group needs a wide range of new workers. This means that there is a competition in the labour market for each individual person. As the training of accompanying work was now a command of the hour, because it can only be done to stimulate young people to enter the care profession, to take care of them, with the 600 euros we are now planning, and also with the care scholarship that is being set up. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Now I know, then there's criticism, it's going to be too slow. This requires careful preparation in implementation, including at the technical level. The training grant of 600 euros comes from September and the care grant of 1 400 euros per month from next year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this will create the conditions for making the profession more attractive. Now I'm saying a sentence on nursing. I know this is a controversial issue, but I would like to ask you very much: Give the nursing school a chance! We know that it is difficult, and it will not take place either that beginners in the care system already come into very difficult care situations. This will also be provided for the curriculum. It is a pilot project that will be implemented in several countries. Let's see that! Give the nursing education a chance and then criticize it when we have completed two, three years in the nursing class! I think this is a good approach to be taken. This also works in other countries, which will also work in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now another issue that was particularly important to me in the course of the negotiations: We know that by now 30 percent of all caregivers have to fight with dementia or severe mental diseases and that this is a particularly high effort in care and care. This is challenging to an extent – whoever has done it himself, has parents who have been affected by it, or acquaintances, knows that. To pay off this difficulty and to provide 20 hours in addition per month is a signal that cannot be addressed clearly enough. Especially where care expenditure is most intensive, in these areas, improvements are now being made. Those who really have the highest amount of care in general benefit from this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I know – and with that I may also take some criticism ahead – that's not the end of the flag rod. Let me say: Of course, it will be important for the countries to play their part in the implementation of this Pflege Reform. There is much in the competence of the countries, including in part the cities and communities, if they still, which is hopefully the case, run nursing homes themselves. The cost pressure is enormously high. It's about improving care keys, about personnel keys. There's something you can do. My colleague Katharina Wiesflecker in Vorarlberg is making this happen by providing EUR 5 million for the improvement of the key. Yes, a second step will need to be taken, and yes, the financial compensatory negotiations will be an opportunity to address this structurally. In any case, I can say that this care package – 1 billion euros for two years, a range of measures that reflects the needs in both the width and the depth – was necessary, was overdue, is a big step and, by the way, is also – I do not agree to say that – a work proof of the functioning of this government, some of which claim that it does not work. She's working! The care package is a striking proof of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7341	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. From now on, 5 minutes of speaking time will apply. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7363	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this care package is really a big throw. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I have a great pleasure in expressing our appreciation and recognition to the employees and also to the caring family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Thank you, Minister, for bringing this together – a big package, a big throw! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Care is all about us. We have 460,000 care professionals. The Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities and the cities pay a total of around EUR 6.5 billion per year in the care system; now 1 billion euros are added in the next two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There are 20 measures which are being put in place here, which have been called for for a long time and are also really necessary, because the pandemic in particular called for staff, both in the hospitals and in the old and care homes. And giving half a billion euros on salaries is noticeable. We are talking about an additional average monthly salary, which is added per employee and employee. The social partners, the collective contractual partners, will take this into account so that it can also be distributed. There is also a discharge, because one is the money that needs to be voted, the other is also the recovery value, which is important for the employees. We have an additional holiday week from 43. A year of life, as envisaged in the Federal Service. We also include the 2 hours of time in the night heavy work in this regulation. This is an expression of appreciation, recognition for the staff who work in the care: a great thank you also from us for this important task. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second area is training. The Minister referred to: 600 euros per month, financed to two thirds of the federal government, to one third of the federal states. 225 million euros are in the training fund for the next three years – originally 150 million euros – so that we can really support it, so that part of the cost of living in the areas of care assistance, care expertise, in which God is also able to train many people. Yes, and we implement the care teaching as a pilot project in all the federal states: after three years of care assistance, after four years of care specialist, of course with an age-specific curriculum. It is necessary to pay particular attention and attention to young people. That's a concern for us. I've been looking at this myself in Switzerland, it's been working there for 15 years. Vorarlberg is also a pioneer in the topic of nursing education. We will allow young people to get involved in this profession as well. That's why it's a good project, and I'm glad we can do it now. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The caring relatives, ladies and gentlemen, make an indispensable contribution in our society. Especially in rural areas, up to 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for and cared for at home. It is therefore necessary to establish a sign of appreciation. We introduce the family bonus from the care level 4, for those who are also socially insured. [[Abg. Belakovich: How many come to enjoy it?]] We pay the pension contributions here for these caring relatives. There will be 1,500 euros per year as a family bonus. The right to care is extended to three months. At the dementia supplement, there are 20 hours in the care for the care allowance. These are extremely important measures for the caring families. They deserve full recognition, appreciation and respect for policy, which we also express. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The 24-hour care has become an important tool in the field of care. We want to make it possible for two to three people to work in the employee relationship in a housing unit. However, we have to create an EU-compliant working time scheme. Therefore, we mandate the social partners to do so, but at the same time make 16 million euros available as a reserve, so that we can increase the grant from 550 to 1 100 euros. It is, however, important that we develop an EU-compliant working time system in advance with the social partners. We have reliefs in professional law both in the nostrifications and in the expansion of competence. There are also many wishes from the professional sector, also from the countries and communities, that we are simplifying there, in the notification that language barriers are now being reduced by the end of 2023, because we need 100 000 additional caregivers by 2030. Care is all about us, ladies and gentlemen, that's why we tied up this package. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Maurer, for all who have been involved. The resonance is enormous: Caritas, Diacony, Red Cross, Relief, Volkshilfe, all have signed in and thank you for this really big package.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7436	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7452	I am glad that we can bring about this reform project and this EUR 1 billion. It is important and it is the social manuscript of this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7479	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7500	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Save the future of care now!” is the theme of the current hour, and it is already very brave of you to introduce this topic today by the government parties. I'll tell you: This announced reform package of 12. May be another entry in chronology, in the history of your failure in the care reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you now why. – Because people don’t believe you’re going to take care of something because you’ve only been announced in the field of care for the past five years, but didn’t do anything! [[Call the ÖVP: What have you done?]] Let us look at this chronology of the last five years; and I take the greens out for the first two years. Let's just look at the year 2018: In the summer of 2018, a huge care reform is announced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] In January 2019, a care concept will be widely announced on the occasion of the government clause. – Nothing came! Then the Greens come to the government. In February 2021 a task force care is announced, is founded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] – Nothing came! In April 2021, a target tax commission will be represented in the Federal Government, countries, cities and municipalities, which will decide on further operations. – Nothing came! And then December 2021, in which this ÖVP/Green government again announces a far-reaching care reform. – Nothing came! Five years of announcements – no matter which German Chancellor of the ÖVP or which health ministers were active in these five years: five years of lost time, only announcements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Ten years you have done nothing!]] And then the 11th comes. May. The SPÖ is making a press conference, a day before the day of care, and criticizing this non-hour of the government, is bringing its proposals in again, putting the proposals on the table – Mr Drobits will then explain even more, as we imagine – and immediately thereafter, immediately thereafter, the Federal Government invites to a press conference the following day – on the day of care, on 12. May, on the day that tens of thousands of people have gone out on the street and have shown that they no longer manage to provide the people in need of care so that staff needs become a huge problem in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not understand, Minister of State, why you do not accept our proposal. Care and care are hard work for employees. Make a regulation, show these 159 000 people at least appreciation by saying: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] Yes, what you do every day for the people who need our help is hard work! Care professions and health professions mean hard work. Why Make You don't, Mr. Federal Minister? More and more employees from this area are now changing – because of corona – to other industries – and they are going to cancel and go to other sectors. More and more caregivers ask themselves the question: If I can no longer pay my bills because of the cost of my income, why should I continue to do this job in full time? – not to drive out nurses, to love government parties, but to keep and motivate them to continue doing so, that is the task. You have announced the biggest reform of the decade on two pages of press paper. These two pages of press paper and the 20 measures presented are announcements, are partly a child's weighting by not addressing those problems that are really necessary for a care package – no sustainability, no funding, no planning, no solution for the 24-hour forces, no relief from the caring family! August Wöginger stressed this family bonus. I know this is a horse from you, dear August, but: 1 500 euros gross in the year, 125 euros gross in the month, 4.11 euros a day as a bonus for the caring family so that they stay at home and care for their relatives – this is not an incentive, these are alms. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: In Burgenland you get a pair of skis for it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wouldn't have written that in, August, that's clearly too little. There are very different models. We see on the Burgenland model how it works and that people then also decide to stay home and take care of it. Mr Federal Minister, what is announced here, from which much is transferred to the countries from which much is transferred to the social partners, with regard to which it is not clear who pays what, are again only announcements. In response to my question in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where the papers are where the concrete texts are about all these announcements, the answer came from you – Mr Gödl has answered – we must first work out that in the coming weeks and months, part by part, part by part. This is once again just an announcement – we will measure you by the concrete actions, Mr Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7607	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7629	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! It is a particularly bizarre situation today: The Greens are making an hour's stay on the green project of the Green Minister for Health, namely on the topic of care. The topic of care is something that has, of course, been with us for many years and will also accompany us in the future, because we know that care is an important topic for the future. Mrs Maurer was right. But that was also with the right, the rest of it is a bit different from what actually happened. What happened? – There was a press conference. There was a huge announcement of what is now to come, i.e. half a billion euros in addition to the salaries. That's significant, Klubobmann Wöginger said. If we calculate what this means for the care workers in Austria – we don't know who should get it at all at all; are these now the nursing assistants, the care assistants or all? – then it looks different again with the significant. But the very essential thing is: The Minister of Finance knows nothing about it! The budget is cast in figures policy. There was a budget committee meeting on Monday, and Finance Minister Brunner was there for his own group, for his own clubman. He hasn't made a statement at all, but he just let the section chief speak, who literally said she had no idea what was to come: Care reform? – In the 2023 budget, this billion euro was not shown. So this is, of course, another collection of headlines, which was presented there, because the government was once again under pressure, because the Green Minister of Health believed – what he has believed more often – he has to go out now and, because he's new in office, make everything new and bring something. And that is actually what will lead to the next disappointment in the population. This, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is the problem you have: You announce something very big with Pomp and also say you have loud positive reactions. Yes, they do not know that your promises are not financed! By the way: What happens after 2024? Even if you still push this billion euro into the budget somewhere, what happens in 2024? Everything gone? That is, people who today think they're making a training don't get to enjoy an increased income at all? – This is all a collection of headlines. Or the support of caring relatives: We know that 80 percent of all caregivers are cared for and cared for at home – and that's good because they want it, but that's a huge burden on family members. I think we all agree in that. What family members do there saves our country billions of euros, many, many billions, because if they did not, all this would happen institutionally. For this there is now a recognition of 1,500 euros a year – but not for all caring relatives, but only for a very, very small proportion of them, namely those who no longer have their own income. So don't be angry with me, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and the Greens! If you take this seriously and if you say you want to actually thank the caring family for this performance and say for this money saving, then you really have to get in your pocket and then you have to take money into your hand. Otherwise, we'll just leave it as it is, or we'll leave it! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You have to leave it anyway if you don't participate!]] Then we don't make announcements, because at least people can't be disappointed. It is therefore urgently necessary, as real reforms are now in place. On the one hand, we need sustainable funding beyond the year 2023, otherwise it will pump back immediately before it is rolled. That means, yes, we confess to this: We need a better reward in the care – for this we are also ready to do so – but not only until the end of 2023, but also beyond. - That's point one. Point two – and this is not included in this care reform – is a training offensive. I am delighted - - - Yes, he smiles, Mr Gödl, there he smiles. [[Abg. Gödl beats his hands excitedly.]] Well, where's the training offensive? – The red and white red card you have written in. That's the only one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Although I am personally very pleased that the teaching of care is that you have finally gone through with it, because it has failed in the ÖVP for many years – and that is probably a good thing – the question is: How is that designed? - That's all. That's gonna be a deal someday. Until the first vintage is finished, a lot of water still flows down the Danube! You can touch your head so often, but that's what you've done: You have not written anything into your reform paper. That's an announcement. Where do you want to get the young people? How, then, do you want to convince them that they are also addressing this teaching? – There is nothing there to start an actual training offensive. Nothing happened with regard to the changeover. There's nothing in this paper. But so that I also end up positive: There is, of course, also a positive aspect, namely, for people with disabilities, especially those with disabilities who receive care benefits, the increased family allowance is now no longer taken into account. I think that is a positive point. I would also like to say that quite openly. The government has actually achieved a score. You can see this positively, you have to see it positively, but otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, this is rather a very sad story. And it is above all, and you need to clarify this with the Minister of Finance, not shown in the budget at all. There we shall ask: Where will this billion be?
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7680	Mrs Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7702	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! When a good friend of mine was admitted to the nursing school in Graz about 23 years ago, we celebrated this regularly. It was not a matter of course that a girl who has only been living in Austria for a few years gets a place there. Later on, she did three years of training, and she kept telling about her great internships – whether at the children's station or on surgery – but my school day in a HAK was boring. Later, after training, she worked for many years in a nursing home in Graz. And as is the case with young people, we've been away very often, celebrating, and always when we've asked: You, come with me, she answered: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, I'm really out of work! – Sometime I said: You, just look for another job, I mean one that's a little more flexible! Why are you staying in this nursing home for so long? – She smiled at me – and she has a very nice smile – and said: When I go to the rooms of my patients, from my Omis and Opis, and they greet me in the morning with a nice good morning and I see their happy faces, then this feeling is indescribable. It's more than work. And then if one of them leaves, then I'm sad, but I know I gave everything so that their last days were beautiful. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My friend stands for the many, many thousand caregivers throughout Austria, who every day, whether in a nursing home, in a hospital or in a hospice, for their patients, give their best day by day and do not remember whether they are exhausted or not, whether the shift is over soon or not. Caregivers always have a smile for us, always one: Well, how are you today? I've been thinking about the time after my knee surgery, and I'm rather a anxious patient, so I've often pressed this red button, but no matter if at night, in the morning, ten times in a row – they're always friendly, helpful, competent and have helped me always give me 100 percent, just like professionals. And for these caregivers, for these people I am glad that we managed to link such a great package – a package that was long overdue, yes, right, a package that can be shown, a package from which these nurses really benefit. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] You get more money, it's more on the payroll, a sixth holiday week and the night's good hours and much, much more. Many, many previous governments have announced this. In many government programmes, care was at the top of the list of priorities. And I ask the SPÖ Group to listen carefully: As SPÖ, who had been responsible for this topic for 30 years, was in the government for 30 years, of these 30 years, the chancellors have been here for many years, and to say that there was not much going on in the care, I really don't think so. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm just briefly counting: In 2008, the Faymann/Pröll government, it was promised an overall solution for care; in 2013, again Faymann and Spindelegger, they wanted to devote themselves to the staff needs in the care – today the situation is that we are missing 100,000 people in the care – and the Strache/Kurz government also wanted to devote itself to the topic. [[Call:Oi, Oi, Oi]] Today we have Black Green – thanks also to the coalition partner for good cooperation, for the many good negotiations in this area – and what have we done? – We have implemented 1 billion euros for caring people, 1 billion euros for care. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] We don't announce, we're going to implement, namely: 1 billion euros for care, 1 billion euros for people in care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7841	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7862	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Dear caregivers, with this care reform, you will finally receive the financial recognition that is due to you. And I say it quite clearly and clearly: I give you every cent. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As the support of our health system, you need much more changes. It was high time and we are pleased that this reform is on the table. Unfortunately, we were only presented with headlines. We do not yet know how to implement the individual steps, and I fear that many of them will not find a way either. The alleged largest care reform of all time is de facto 1 billion euros for nurses for the next two years. We already know that in the Ministry of Health you think that you are putting the world before complete facts after your time of government, and then you have to somehow regulate the desired improvements from your succession. But I'm telling you: That's not how it works! In Austria, no government has long been thinking about the time after its own legislative period, but that They obviously mock such an entire industry and then leave out parts of it completely, is particularly shameless. Let us look at your suggestions in detail: The salary increase as you call it is an additional monthly salary. I'm very excited whether you're doing this on the tax balance or whether you're trying to take all hospital and nursing home operators on board, and if so: Do you know how to deal with mobile care? But, well, with non-stationary offers, you don't have it that way. Your additional holiday week is only available for caregivers in the stationary setting. The professions in the established and mobile care therefore remain extremely unattractive. They show no interest in giving relief to family members, and caregivers need to go to the home at some point, and do not have the opportunity to live well at home. A sustainable change for caregivers is that the increased family allowance and the care allowance are no longer offset. That's good, but you yourself say that this brings only 60 euros to the families concerned. For many of those concerned, this is just a drop on the hot stone, considering how much medical equipment parents need from chronically ill children or children with disabilities. With these, you can raise who counts as a caring relative, but how do you want to find out which and how many people are nursing relatives of adults, and how do you want to send this bonus? More by voucher? To stay with people with disabilities: Do these measures also apply to the caretakers and assistants of people with disabilities? – Already the Coronabonus 2021 has been forgotten on these persons. Attractive working conditions, such as higher salaries and better care keys, are also indispensable. There must be no difference in this reform between care for the elderly and assistance for the disabled, because this in turn has a negative impact on the personnel situation. The Committee spoke of only positive feedback to this reform. I just heard a loud grumbling from the area of people with disabilities, who are anything but overwhelmed by this great throw. This reform does not include the creation of a personal assistance that is tailored to the needs of the country-wide, in order to enable people to live self-determined lives. Unfortunately, as a teacher, I have to attest a thematic error here. You must address serious reforms on such an important issue as care. People have deserved to improve the system in the long term and sustainable. We will continue to make our proposals, no matter how often you postpone them, just because you do not want to talk about serious reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7930	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e7951	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, and all those who follow our meeting at home! This government provides, and this government provides the largest care reform in the last decades. [[Abg. Belakovich: What exactly?]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition, you're in the smockwinkerl, you behave defiantly. [[Abg. Krainer: Absurd!]] Yes, it is completely absurd, Mr. Krainer, that you do not recognize that this package, which we have chained and presented here, is actually happening a milestone in the development of care. I know what I'm talking about, I'm volunteering myself in the care and I know what challenges there are every day. Ten years ago, I took over an institution in the mobile care of people. We had 200 staff at the time, at present we have 300 staff and I know how difficult it is to find staff, and I know how high the pressure is that people want to change the job, because perhaps the framework conditions are not right, but what has now been put on the table in the context of the care reform can be seen more than seen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This government supplies. This government is indeed a big reform, and we are going to implement it together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It's a bilge with what arguments are being worked on here. Mrs Belakowitsch, you are confirming that in the 2023 budget these additional expenditures are not intended for care. [[Abg. Belakovich: No!]] Yes, well, the 2023 budget has not yet been decided. [[Abg. Belakovich: Listen!]] We must first work on this, and of course the points that we make in the care reform are being implemented – and please do not say: 1 billion euros is nothing! 1 billion euros targeted for care is a lot of money, and we invest it in the right direction, because, as has already been said, the main focus is on staff, personnel training and also working conditions. [[Abg. Belakovich: They don't exist, the billion!]] For example, because you, Mrs Belakovich, also said we are not doing anything for the training: No, we will introduce a scholarship next year, with which new entrants or new entrants can simply also afford training by obtaining a scholarship. [[Abg. Belakovich: They are already standing in snakes!]] We are introducing the training bonus, and some have already been initiated by Minister of Labour Kocher. Please, I'm just reminding you: Currently, 16 800 people are in education for care throughout Austria. It is not that nothing has happened, we have taken steps again and again, but something like this package that we are putting on the table now has really not happened in this dimension in the last decades. Mr Muchich, yes, of course, now the framework is set, now we are going into parliamentary implementation, with hearings, with consideration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical]] Of course, this is the most logical thing in the world, that we first set the points and then go into parliamentary implementation, and then I'm excited – you're a well-known social politician, a recognised social politician, dear Beppo! – whether you are willing to also show up and get out of the smelt angle you've now maneuvered into. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in March, according to Statistics Austria – the last evaluation – 468 569 people in Austria have taken care money in stages 1 to 7. That is, this number, that is, almost 470,000 people have an increased need for care to deal with everyday life. Yes, it is true – Mrs. Maurer has also mentioned it – that about a million people are directly confronted with care tasks in their families, in their family environment, which is a very serious problem. It is also so important to us that we take further important steps in the field of caring families, such as this care bonus with 1,500 euros, Gust Wöginger has carried it out. Care is not a simple issue, nor is it because we have different responsibilities due to the division of tasks in Austria. Yes, this is a challenge of its own, and I would therefore like to thank all those who have actively contributed to this reform. We started a nursing task force about two years ago – then under Minister Anschober – and we have had many, many conversations, and finally this reform package has come out. I would like to highlight a person very much because I know and have also learned to what extent discussions could be achieved even in the background of this reform package. I would like to highlight very explicitly today our clubman Gust Wöginger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] He's a well-known social politician for decades. He was a works council member at the Red Cross and he has also held many, many important talks with representatives of the countries, because we can only work together on this challenge. [[Abg. Belakovich: Unfortunately this is the problem!]] Gust Wöginger deserves a lot of thanks, together with all those who decide to do so, also the Federal Minister, but of course especially Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer. Dear Gust, a great thank you for your tenacity, for your accuracy, for the good dealings with those who work in the care! That's how we're going to implement the project. The government supplies, and you're supposed to get out of the slick.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8105	Mr Drobits is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8127	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate listeners! Well, if Mr Bedrana Ribo stands here and says that the SPÖ has not done anything in this area for 30 years, I must say that she is not supposed to know herself in the final effect and to take further assistance from colleagues Koza. [[Call to the Greens: Do not have them!]] He has migrated in the social field and knows that the care money has been created, that the care allowance has been valorized, that the care bonus has been created, that the care pension has been abolished and, and, and. So, Mrs. Colleague, please take further assistance from your colleague. He explains to you what has been done and what the SPÖ has done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you claim that you have implemented 1 billion euros in the budget, you do not know the budget either, because nothing is pictured in the budget. Please go to my colleague, Mrs Belakovich – she mentioned this earlier – because there is nothing in the budget, that is also incorrect, you have also said the falsehood. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When Mr Gödl says four times, five times: We've delivered!, I say: Yes, it was delivered. Mr. Federal Minister, you were the first of the three health ministers to realize that speed is the most important. You also said in a broadcast that the speed was the most important because you saw: International Day of Care, Demonstration, Great Demonstration. You've seen that there's been a urgent question in the Federal Council. In the last few weeks you have seen the broadcasts made by the union and the workers' chamber. They had to act, that was the escape forward. But this is not the reform we have expected! This is a reform you made because you had to make it. It is just as a paper as many others have rightly said about my colleague, Muchich: We have made no provision for this in the budget, we have not put anything into a law, into a draft, but we have only one paper, and we will see whether this is, as in recent years, only empty announcements, promises. As to whether this is a big throw, Mr Gödl, if you have delivered: I claim that if you've delivered a large portion of mixed fascination, you've delivered it. There are the desires of the ÖVP inside and there are in the final effect also the suggestions of the Greens inside. But it is not what people want and deserve outside – and I would like to underline that. I would like to point out that this paper contains a number of points, given the need to question: Is that really what moves or motivates people to go to the care? Will the people or persons now active in the health and care sector continue to receive it? Mr. Federal Minister, you have planned a training bonus of 600 euros for beginners – 600 euros. Do you think that makes it attractive? And: Do you think that's enough to be able to live on it during education? Especially when compared to police students who receive EUR 1 820 gross, this is not attractive and not fair, Minister of State, and I claim that this regulation is very contradictory and disproportionate to other professional groups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: You're on the wrong site! A twist of the facts!]] In addition to this 600 Euro I also look at what you have done with the family bonus of 1,500 Euro. Mr Muchich said that this is 4.11 euros a day. This is very, very little in the current situation. If you look at the employment model in Burgenland, which you also know, which you could also implement, you can see that this is much more and that it would be quite possible to support and relieve caring relatives in such a way that they are socially insured, employed and can also acquire a corresponding income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I think you know exactly what Mr Muchich has already said, that we have put in a petition and a motion for a resolution in which we claim that people working in the care and care sector are doing a particularly stressful job: Hard work. I'm asking in the round today: Who really says: No, the people who work in the care and care area do not work hard!Unknown term type: "%s".? – No one will do that, and if anyone does, please get up. – Mr Gödl is right now, I assume that he is not because he supports it, but by chance. I now say that society demands that care and care be finally recognized as a serious work, and that is what we want. Mr. Federal Minister, there's no way about it, you're going to do it at last! This is necessary in order to attract this profession and also to have enough caregivers in the future. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] One last point: Mr Gödl has just called me to see that this is another construction site. Yeah, I'm claiming that the care business is being done right now. There are winners, and the winners are again shareholders, hedge funds and pension funds. We currently have some cases where we see that this is not the case. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We demand that care be clearly organized in a non-profit way. That's where the league has to play. We need the necessary rules, because there is no need to do business with the care! That's what we're talking about. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8217	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8238	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Yes, we have a nursing emergency in Austria. Two years of black and green federal government and corona have led to about 10 percent fewer treatment capacities in our hospitals for treating people in an epidemic than at the beginning of the crisis. They have led to the fact that, and this is unique in the Austrian Republic, more than 10 percent of all nursing beds and cots had to be locked because there are too few caregivers. There has not yet been talk of the great fluctuations in staff in the homes and hospitals: The caregivers run the system. And what is the third Green Minister for Health and Social Affairs doing in this situation? . He continues the black and green tradition of the announcement policy, hastens to help in misunderstanded non-mindful German chancellor Nehammer, who is missing one minister after another, and hastens to a press conference a few days before the federal parties, in which he announces a major care reform consisting of only sound and smoke. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Please go, one billion!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you may be able to deceive your own officials at the party meetings, but this does not mean that you can end the care emergency in Austria. The whole thing seems to me a little bit like the story of the emperor's new clothes. They stand up and claim to have the largest care reform in the Second Republic, and in fact you are standing there naked. There is no legislative draft, no concrete reform, no text on which we can discuss, and there is no single euro in the budget to date. Even on Monday in the Committee on Budgets it was clear that there is no single euro for your biggest reform. There is nothing of this kind of care billion, Mr Federal Minister, and there is obviously nothing to be decided on today and tomorrow. So what do you announce here and what are we supposed to discuss here at all? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say the announcements are going in the right direction. You know, I know, that's what the SPÖ knows, that's what people in care know. But you always go half a step forward and stay not only too unconcrete in the announcements, but you always overlook a lot of things. They announce more salary for the nurses, but limit the whole to two years. They announce an extension of competence for care assistance and professional assistance, but ignore the elevated service. They announce more holidays and more time-consuming for night-services, but do not say how the day-to-day services in the event of this lack of care are to be occupied at all. They announce a nursing teaching, but are limited to a few pilot projects instead of making nails with heads. They want to support the family but do not generally increase the care allowance. They haven't done a lot of things at all. They have not made a concrete proposal on how to strengthen mobile care. They have not made any proposals on how the working conditions in the care are to be improved in a sustainable way. Where is the great debureaucratisation that all caregivers primarily want? Where is the reorganisation of home supervision? Where is the strengthening of care lines so that they can have more rights and manage the operation better? And above all: Where is sustainable financing of care? Mr. Federal Minister, you have remained guilty of more answers than you have provided so far. I hope you deliver the whole thing in time. I'll give you a little tip to finish: Before you get back here and make a current hour on a topic on which nothing is on the table at all, join the Minister of Finance, tell him how much money you need, submit the appropriate concepts so that something can be planned budgetaryly, because otherwise everything remains sound and smoke! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8290	I should like to welcome the 4b of the Königsweg middle school to Parliament. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] We are just at the current hour, and there are two more speakers. Mrs Grebien has now been spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8328	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Valuable guests here at the gallery and, of course, at home! When children and adults receive the increased family allowance due to disability and receive care allowance, up to now 60 euros have been charged for the care allowance. Getting something reckoned, that sounds kind of great, doesn't it? – but de facto it means that the increased family allowance has been deducted from the care allowance. Completely unacceptable! This account will now be deleted. Depending on the level of the care allowance, this will mean a significant plus. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For example, if a family for her disabled child had increased family allowance plus care allowance of Stage 1 – starting at the lowest – it was deducted from the 165,40 Euro 60 Euro monthly care allowance. So the family got only 105 euros. By abolishing the bill, the family now receives the full amount, and that is actually an increase in the care allowance for this family by 57 percent. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With care allowance level 3 and corresponding care allowance amounted to 415 euros so far, due to the withdrawal of the bill the full care allowance remains, i.e. 475 euros, which is at least a plus of 14 percent. All in all, 45 000 people benefit from this single measure alone, and ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted as a speaker for people with disabilities. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, the classification of care allowance for people with dementia and severe mental impairment will be improved. The difficulty allowance is increased from 25 to 45 hours. This can and will result in a higher care allowance classification. Another measure – it has already been mentioned – is the family bonus, and yes, that is also good. This will benefit 12,000 members in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point that I think is essential as a speaker for people with disabilities is the improvement in the care professions. My colleague, Mr Bedrana Ribo, has already described very clearly in her speech what major improvements will be made. As some of you know, I myself was involved in disability aid. At present, reports are constantly being reported that the social sector, i.e. more precisely the disability area in which care is carried out, has not been taken into account in the package of measures. I can clearly disagree with this. They are all professional groups – the care assistant, the care specialist and the qualified health and health care care – including, regardless of the setting in which the persons work. This means that exactly those who carry out the care in practice, especially in the disability sector – that is, in about 6,400 colleagues – are covered by this change, and that is also good. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I also agree that, in practice, because of the different needs of a person, it may be a matter of grayery. For example, the separation where care happens and where care happens is often not possible. We as caregivers, who do not have care training, cannot now say: Ah, you need care now! Well, let's wait for the colleague to come! – That's why it was made possible that we were instructed or ordered by a graduate Professionals can also engage in nursing activities. But the difference is quite clear: Disabled persons have no care training. I would like to say quite clearly here that the caregivers in the disability assistance are doing inconceivable important work, their work is indispensable. It is a fact that the trade union for social professions has long been working for better conditions. I remember the results of the negotiations of the social economy in Austria 2019. I also, of course, see the countries that have the main competence in disability assistance, as well as the institutions themselves in charge of creating better framework conditions. I personally am very happy to be ready for a dialogue or for a discussion. We all want – hopefully – inclusion. This means, above all, de-institutionalization, wage instead of pocket money, an end to the workshops, as they are still thought and lived, an opening up of the school for children and young people with disabilities, especially in the elementary and tertiary educational institutions, and the opening up of the first labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, a dignified relationship needs a system change. These, valuable spectators, cannot come alone with a care reform package – the first step that has been taken. Nevertheless, this care reform, which we have had to wait for decades and which is now being implemented under green government participation, is a very, very good thing. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Drobits, briefly: We already recognize what happened, but we also recognize what has not happened! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8428	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8450	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Also to the school class: Welcome! Let us be honest – as my colleagues have already said here: This is not a reform! This is a maximum announcement of a reform. There are no inconceivably many aspects that would contribute to the fact that it would really be a reform – large chunks are missing. At the end of the day, however, it must be said that the learnt Austrian and the learned Austrian already know that reform announcements in Austria usually end in a referendum with a small mini content, and finally, packages are sometimes delivered in which there is no content. Let's go to the open construction sites. Care instruction: This model was proposed by one – I believe, the former health minister and by an economic minister, who is no longer in office at the moment. You can read: The echo to this proposal was not exactly great, in practice not very pleased. You've kept this bad idea, she's supposed to make big changes. [[Call the Greens.]] But if you look over the edge of the plate and see what happens in Switzerland, where there is such a similar model: After five years, after graduation, 20 percent of the trainees quit immediately. I'm not sure if these 20 percent who stop are really a sign that this is a concept of success – I don't think so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Sieber: 80 percent stay...!]] They now go here and bring 16-year-olds to hospitals and old homes, in a situation where staff are already missing. Who should take care of these apprentices? Who should train them? Who should take them to the side and help them finally to complete this training? – They make it even more difficult for the current nurses than it is anyway, because one cannot deny that there are just too few nurses. They're going here now and they're going to put young people there again and say: Oh, that's all right, they're going to train themselves! - It can't work. This does not work in other areas either. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] Cost compensation: You can celebrate a reform – I honestly don't know what you're going to celebrate for, but you can celebrate, that's your right, you can do it – but at the end of the day, you don't look so much. Expensive compensation of 1,500 euros in the fourth academic year – hurra! –: Where's the money coming from? Is that in the training grant? Did you talk to the operators in the countries and communities about whether they have this money available? – Well, you haven’t talked about it yet, because it is only now that you have to talk about which of the reforms that you announced recently can actually be implemented. Take school tests into regular operation: Yeah, there are school tests that work. We can also support that. But they go here and make seven different training tracks. Instead of simplifying the system, make it more complicated. So at the end of the day we have seven parallel courses. This is incredibly complicated, it is incredibly immobile, and the real problem is not solved from our perspective. They have the topic of federal and municipal structures: Nothing happened. It's complicated, it's immobile. But we need a comprehensive strategy. These are the big chunks you should have been dealing with. One should have taken care of the 24-hour care, ladies and gentlemen, for sheer insanity. It is not mandatory for these companies to acquire a quality seal. It is not even clear how families should finance this, because it actually fails to deal with the main problem, namely: It's not a nursing profession. What did you do? - Nothing. Is there a proposal? - No, I don't. Honestly, I think this marketing bubble is unnecessary. You just make an advertising campaign and say: Oh, that's a big thing now and there's a lot inside!, but fact is, this package has been delivered empty. Mr Gödl, that is exactly what it is. You have previously noted that the Taskforce care has this service catalogue. - Yes, it is. You should look at that. One should also see for the future that one has a staff key with which one can negotiate with the countries and the communities, and then see that one has enough personnel. But to do so, you have to trust to set up a staff key, then provide it with targets of effect and see what you have achieved. In the field of care, one learns only one thing – finally, I find it very interesting, because that is what I mentioned earlier, is an old idea of ministers who are no longer in office or no longer in office, and the government normally dominates it quite well, ideas and applications, apparently but not its own. I do not think you have dared to blame this idea, which will not be sustainable, but on the contrary makes the situation worse. I'm sorry. We will monitor what comes out at last, and we will be glad if a real reform becomes out of it. - I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8508	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I should like to thank Mr Rauch very much for being available for the present hour. [[10:20:36]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8533	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letters: “I have the honour to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution pursuant to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act [...] Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Margarete SCHRAMBÖCK escaped her wish according to her office. At the same time, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal President has [...] Mag. Dr. Martin KOCHER also entrusted with the management of the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Business Location. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, it has [...] power. Susanne KRAUS-WinKLER appointed the State Secretary to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location and appointed Florian TURSKY, MSc, MBA as the State Secretary and assigned him to the Federal Minister for Finance for Management and Parliamentary Representation.” “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, has removed her wish in accordance with her duties. At the same time, under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal President has Mr Mag. Norbert TOtschNIG, MSc appointed Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism.” I should like to thank the Ministers Schramböck and Köstinger for their service to the Republic at this point. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I may point out that according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the communications are distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8806	Before entering the agenda, I should like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr Susanne Prince, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 2124/A a deadline until 19. ==References== The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8830	The debate on points 3 to 6, 9 and 10, 11 to 13, 15 to 17, 18 to 20 and 21 to 24 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8854	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 9,5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed. The speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 185, SPÖ 128, FPÖ 105, Green 95 and NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 38 minutes, the debate contribution shall be limited to 5 minutes. The following explanatory statement was agreed on Agenda item 1: Declaration Federal Chancellors, vice chancellors each 10 minutes, a club round, new members of the government Kocher, Todschnig each 5 minutes and two club rounds, then the new State Secretarys Plakolm, Kraus-Winkler and Tursky each 4 minutes, and then the further words. I should like to ask the members of the government to keep these speaking times. So I'll give you a sign when they're over. Of course, the speaking times of the members of the government and the Secretary of State are unprejudicial. However, I would ask the members of the government and the State Secretary to pay attention to compliance. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. Whoever agrees, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:25:00]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the appointment of the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Economic Location and the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e8906	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. [[Abg. Belakovich:... creating chancellors!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Where are the main actors?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I am now very pleased to welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the gallery. They are the students of the 4c of the Königsweg middle school. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[Federal Chancellor Nehammer, Vice Chancellor Kogler as well as other government members enter the hall and go to the government bank.]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Following the declarations, a debate will be held within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the present, sufficiently supportive request. I should like to ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for his statement, which should not exceed 10 minutes. – Please, Federal Minister – Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9007	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! It was now nice to meet many school classes who attended the High House on their way here. In this sense also by me as Federal Chancellor: Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You're not hosts here!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Last week was actually a week that was characterized by numerous changes. Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck have declared their resignation and have not made this easy heart. [[Abg. Belakovich:... on Facebook! We have always celebrated it.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Why did you stay?]] They have experienced difficult times for themselves, with full commitment to the question of the pandemic, the crises that come upon us, represented and fought their offices. From my side as Federal Chancellor a great thanks to Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck for their commitment! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Every change also brings opportunities for something new. It is important and right to use these as well: We have reorganised the agendas of the Ministries, we have put together what we see, and in my view, we have thus created clarity, structure, transparency and efficiency. We have a new ministry for one of the greatest challenges of this time, namely work and economy. Martin Kocher is at the top of this. – Dear Martin, thank you for being willing to take on this responsibility! In the past, as far as work and economy are concerned, the question was often polarizing whether one should actually form a place of business, a ministry, because there are different interests. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely for this reason that it is important to bring together the issue of work and business, because, for Austria's economic location, it takes on the one hand workers who are well-trained, who are motivated by their work, and on the other hand, courageous entrepreneurs who are willing to invest in Austria's economic location, take entrepreneurship risk, create jobs by doing so, and thus ensure prosperity and prosperity in this country, i.e. growth. [[Abg. Belakovich: Aha!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Ministry of Agriculture itself is now more clearly structured, it is fully dedicated to its tasks. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Scherak]] The question of why this needs to be answered can easily be answered: Food security has been an essential issue since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, not only for us in Austria, but currently worldwide. We are currently experiencing the retention of wheat exports from large producer countries. The wheat, the oilseeds, the maize from Ukraine are important on the one hand for food security throughout the world, especially in North Africa, Pakistan and India, and on the other hand, it is equally important that food security exists in Austria – thanks to the farmers, thanks to the high quality standards in production possible – and thus remains the same, an experienced professional needs to be at the head of the ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forging Lexer]] That's Norbert Totschnig. – Dear Norbert, welcome to our team! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There are also possible new synergies in the reorganisation of the agendas. We have created a youth state secretariat in the Federal Chancellor's Office – Claudia Plapolm leads it as State Secretary. It uses this function to enforce and argue the interests and concerns of young people in many cross-sections and to listen to the views of those directly affected where it is important. – Claudia, thank you for this commitment! In addition, the major field of civil service, which belongs to and fits well into the Youth State Secretariat, is now also in place. In addition, however, it also needs to be strongly represented by your commitment to work, education, science, all that touches young people in any form in their lives. Good for it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Tourism in Austria: hard to shake through the pandemic and at the same time an important employer for the labour market, important for innovation/development, especially in rural areas. However, urban tourism has also suffered massively over the last few years, including the restrictions imposed internationally. [[Mr Hauser and Mr Schmiedlechner.]] There too, a Secretary of State who now has competence and expertise for precisely the people who work in this area, who in turn create jobs, provide prosperity in our country, needs to be able to do so. – Dear Susanne Kraus-Winkler, welcome to our team! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] The complex area of digitalization is focused and merged, and this has now become possible through a State Secretariat in the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not that safe yet!]] The Bundesrechenzentrum is located there, and the topic of digitalization itself is an all-encompassing one. It is no longer just a question of how digital connectivity takes place in rural areas, but above all of what digitisation in the field of administration means, which means digitization, when it comes to straining people and actually facing the new challenges in this area. – Dear Florian Tursky, welcome to our team! Good for your job! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens, as well as on Deputies Brandstätter and Meinl-Reisinger.]] Changes are, as has been said, opportunities at the same time. We actually have to take advantage of these opportunities, because the challenges posed by the war, by the price of inflation, are far from over. We are working with high pressure on the fact that there are new discharge measures on the existing – two anti-truder packages have now been decided and also in circulation – when it comes to easing people due to the high energy costs – total volume: 4 billion euros. Is that enough? – One can answer this with a clear no, because unfortunately, this year's inflation and inflation will still be a constant companion and we must accompany people along this path. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] We will not be able to completely prevent the consequences of this inflation and inflation, but we will reduce the consequences as much as possible. That is our common claim, that is task and commitment. At the same time, the government has the task of continuing its work according to the government programme and developing Austria itself in addition to all the current crises in the world. This has been achieved by the decision of the care reform – at last, I say self-critically. Together, however, it has succeeded in providing funding for new legs in training, to strongly support the way of the federal states in the matter of care, in order to help people to do so. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] An issue that is particularly intense for Austrians and people living in Austria is the issue of security of energy supply. We were also able to make clear progress when it comes to a significant expansion of the Republic's strategic reserve. As a Republic, we will not only store 10 terawatt hours, but 20 terawatt hours of gas. This is a quantity structure, which, understandably, does not say anything to many, but to give an example: In an energy-intensive month, like the January, we need 10 terawatt hours of gas, in a low energy month, as in summer, 4.6 terawatt hours. That is, with the strategic reserve of the state plus the storage of all those involved that progress step by step, we will achieve the goal of being well equipped for the winter. One thing the Federal Government has also ensured: Those who do not use the memory, who believe they can now use storage speculation, by artificially creating a shortage of the market to drive prices to the heights, have lost their way. Those who do not use the storage, we will then make this capacity of the storage available to others who do so very well for the security of energy supply in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9189	The 10 minutes are exhausted. I'm welcome to ask you!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9205	I come to the conclusion: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wish the new members of the Federal Government all the best for their work and look forward to further trusting cooperation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9232	Before I can give the Vice-Chancellor the floor, I can warmly welcome the students of the Federal Supreme Realgymnasium from Dornbirn and congratulate them for overcoming the long journey. [[General condolences.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor came to speak. Please, Mr Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9262	Mr President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the new ones on the government bank! I would like to start with a thank you, and I would like to say that, even if we often have different opinions – even in the government – in such situations, it is only right and important to express this thanks, even if it costs one minute or another of the speaking time. This is a little lost, and we have often been criticized for it at this point – at least I am. I'd like to do it right. Why? – The times are challenging in a way that they were not for many previous governments. If you look at this term of office, which now does not last even two and a half years – two years and four months – you can see that this also concerns Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck. The pandemic has just been noised around the corner, and the associated difficulties in the world markets, for example, keyword tourism, but also recently the attack war of Putins on Ukraine have serious effects. Now we should go about having respect for this situation, that is to say – almost all the political groups that are represented here have already been in governments – having respect for the task of the implementation of these offices, without being sad, having respect for the ringing of decisions and, ultimately, maintaining respect for each other and for each other. That's what I'm advertising for. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to thank Elli Köstinger for the hard negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] So we didn't make it easy, yes, often she was sitting here, and after she had set up the office, which was then delayed, we also telephoned longer. We didn't make it easy! [[Call the FPÖ:When do you step back?]] That we don't always carry this out here will not surprise you – and yet, or at all: a hard negotiator for her concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] What has already impressed me positively is her, Elli Köstingers, fight for fair prices for farmers and de facto against the power of the Group headquarters in the food trade chains. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You just have to recognize that! I like this commitment, I care about it – with all the differences in other matters. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There was also a joint project that we – the Elli Köstingers and the Vice-Cancellor's Office, if you want – have established, namely the establishment and implementation of the Non-Profit Organisation Support Fund, for which there are enough good feedbacks around it, so that at least this point should be mentioned and respected. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The most important joint project would be...!]] Half Europe is looking at how it worked to be equipped for itself. Especially in a country where volunteering and honorary work are always held so high – rightly, I mean; I also learned to do so – this should not remain unmentioned. So, Elli Köstinger: Thank you for that! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Margarete Schramböck contributed very much in spring and summer 2020 to the creation of an investment premium that once produced something like an eco-Keynesianism. This may not always be easy for the ÖVP, but these public investments that we have made, and above all the incentives for private investment with the so-called investment premium, which, to a good extent, has focused on ecologisation and modernisation and regionalisation, are a strong thing – and also for that: thank you! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The tasks for the new Members of Parliament have already been described by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I would therefore like to hand over once again to describe the overall situation and to discuss what we have done together. At any rate, it was good, Federal Chancellor, that after the resignations, the ÖVP acted very quickly – again in agreement with the President of the Federal Republic – and therefore, I believe, no one must then be excited in the debate that the state ship would be unnavigationed there – I know what is going on in the debate. [[Abg. Smoking: The Federal Chancellor...!]] It worked well. Yes, we have a fluctuation, but at the same time we meet the task of controlling it well, and it seems to me that we did it again. Thank you! In these moving and turbulent times, I think, we should simply hold on to that far in order to recognize that several crises meet at the same time, and each of them has a dimension that has not existed in the last decades. [[Abg. Kassinger: You don't have to believe you should do it! You're the government!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You have caused the crisis!]] – This presents us – and everyone in common; we are here in a constructive intention – of course, all before a certain test. It is about the resilience of our adaptability as an economy, but actually more than society. That is why together we have the responsibility to try together again and get something on the way. If, as Chancellor Scholz said in his speech in the German Bundestag, the 24.2. marks a turnaround – so I would only underline that – and if the fundamental finding is that the world has been quite another since then, then politics will also have to be another one! [[Abg. Matznetter:... other government!]] In addition, it is not bad to invest a little in the analytical ability, and sometimes I am puzzled that one or the other is acting as if after two years of pandemic the supply chain problems that exist throughout the globe, and then the war outbreak with all uncertainties and bottlenecks should have no effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Five factors would play a role, factors which make it clear that there are certain restrictions on the economy and society. One of them is, moreover, inflation. That's pretty simple: If there is a lot of money in circulation and demand, but there are constant restrictions in the supply chain, then there is inflation. And anyone who pretends to be able to operate it off simply, he either doesn't understand it or he doesn't mean it well – it just has to be said – so that as a task we have the suspension and mitigation of these effects in front of us – in fact, together with economic researchers, with the social partners and also with stakeholders such as the Pensionist Association and, and, and. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Why did you vote for the ESM?]] It's gonna be done. That is why before the summer here in the house a next, a third package will be presented, in which we can all, and above all you, as Members of Parliament, participate, and then you can see which suggestions will help or not help. We believe that you should do this as far as possible and not with the casting can – you will not be surprised. Those should also bear burdens – because it is not possible to carry it without loss of wealth for one, two years – which can do so even easier, so that it will not become intolerable for those who can no longer do so. That's a task. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Last point: If it is already a turnaround, it is above all a turnaround for the energy turnaround. In the short term, we have to do what the Federal Chancellor has said, and with this plan today, five points are addressed, which I do not want to repeat now, in which we have made good progress against all unconventions and which have been properly filled up before the target of the European Union – and not even with Russian gas. This is not easy in this situation. Finally, of course, it is a matter of course that we are now making every effort to get out of this dependency. Energy policy is now geopolitical, security policy and, above all, independence policy – that is absolutely clear! If that's what you want, you could say to Adenauer: The energy turnaround was at first – I was a young man myself – a dream of a few, then it became a hope of many, and now it is a necessity for everyone. Now we have to set the course: to secure the short term, because we do not get out of the gas so quickly, in particular, and for the medium term, out of these dependencies, so that the projects of an ecological economic policy with those of an independence and security policy, if you wish, meet at this point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And although the times seem difficult – yes, that is so – it must nevertheless, and precisely, be the task of representatives, of rulers, of the best of the councils in the municipalities up to those on the government bank, so all together must be a concern to work with a certain optimism and with a certain constructive access for the best. We invite you to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9446	I can thank you very much for the time discipline and can also warmly welcome you to our gallery in the Austrian Federal Army as well as from Germany and Switzerland. [[General condolences.]] It's a beautiful picture when the gallery is full. – Welcome! Klubobmann Wöginger is reported to speak. - Please. [[Call:Lightfried]] [[Further call:I think Light peace]] - Wait! It's agreed, normal club rounds.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9491	I am right, too, Mr President. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: A real opponent!]] Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the two ministers who, for personal reasons, have left politics in times that are extremely challenging. Since the beginning of this turquoise-green federal government, we have been in permanent crisis management mode: on the one hand, through the pandemic that still calls for us, and on the other, since 24. The war of Putin against Ukraine on February 2, which of course also has effects that we have to feel. It is also a challenging time for politicians – I would like to mention that – and there is also personal decisions in the course of which they say: No, I'm leaving politics now, I want to go a different way! As a clubman of the People's Party, I do not want to thank the two ministers for the last four years, even as far as cooperation is concerned, but above all for what they have done – in the fields of agriculture, tourism, also economics and digitization: a great thank you to Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck for her work! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Second: The fact that this government is fully operational has proved Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer because he has re-trained this government within a few hours. [[Abg. Bösch: protection claim! Protection claim!]] [[New call for tender Belakovich]] Within one day, this government was re-trained with new personalities, with experts and experts. The only evidence is that this government is capable of action. The Federal Chancellor acted quickly and well. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, my thanks also apply to the coalition partner, who also contributes to this transformation; this is important. We work well together, and that's another proof that this coalition also works. I warmly welcome those who are sitting on the government bank for the first time today: Norbert Totschnig, Susanne Kraus-Winkler and Florian Tursky – welcome! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On Norbert Totschnig, the Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism and also responsible for forestry and water law, who has an idea of farming and livestock farming, who knows what agriculture needs, and the rural area, which is also marched professionally through the Club of the People's Party and is simply an absolute expert on matter: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl]] Dear Norbert, we wish you every good thing for this important task in the sense of our agriculture; the farmers are well taken up by you. Good luck! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Susanne Kraus-Winkler is a Europe-wide recognised tourism expert. Austria is a tourist country. 15 percent of the gross domestic product comes from tourism. We are proud of tourism. The guests from close and far are happy to come to us, with our beautiful landscape and our truly excellent gastronomy and hotel industry. Dear Susanne, all the best – a good hand for your State Secretariat and for tourism in Austria! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Florian Tursky will focus on digitization. The integration of this area with the Bundesrechenzentrum is also important, as is all the other points that are necessary to simplify. Digitalization is the area with the jobs of the future, which we also have to particularly evaluate here. Dear Florian, you've been working on the political level for a long time, you know the federal state and you know what it takes for digitization. All the best – and we look forward to a good cooperation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, and a minister has obtained an essential place: We now have work and business in a ministry, and at Martin Kocher these areas are well removed. He also knows how to do it, that both can work well with each other. Claudia Pakolm's agendas have been extended to include civil service. I also wish you a good hand for these important projects and areas that you have acquired. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government is absolutely capable of action: the eco-social tax reform, the renewable development law, two packages against the costing, the care package that we have discussed today, with an additional billion; we have the red-and-white red card in consideration; the gas supply is on rail, today the first two legislative decisions are taken; and we also make a request – that is also mentioned because the honorary office is important to us – regarding fire brigades that we refund the amount of VAT on vehicle purchases et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] All this makes this government possible because this government is capable of action because we know what people need – and therefore, my dear colleague Lightenfried, you can stay at home in the SPÖ with your new election request, which no man needs! We're working on it. We now have half-time, and we will end this second half-time together as this turquoise-green federal government. [[Abg. Bösch: Maybe, maybe!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You will never win it up!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Whether you're playing along or not is your business. This government works for Austria and for the people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9653	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e9675	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not listen to these nice stories that have now been told to us, but look at what is actually happening, what is being done, then I would like to ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, three questions Did you actually notice that an economic and social disaster has broken into this country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] Did you notice that the biggest wave of inflation has been recorded in Austria for 40 years? Did you notice that the pandemic is not over? The answer to this is relatively clear: If you are being measured by your actions, you have to find that you have not noticed all this because you are engaged in changing ministers every two months, because you are busy looking for new ministers every two months, and because you are busy just somehow holding your store together. That's why you don't care about the people in Austria, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's incredible. Since the office of this Federal Government, there have been three German Chancellors, three Health Ministers, and there have been a total of 14 ministerial or ministerial changes; that is on average every two months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] Imagine a company in which the Executive Board is changed every two months: This company would have been in bankruptcy for a long time – and what you are doing here is intentional, intentional political bankruptcy, Mr. Bundeskanzler. That's your responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is now about doing really important things: not constantly re-occupied, not constantly seeking new things, but at last attacking the fight against inflation, energy security, health, care and other things. Inflation is currently over 7 percent. Mr Vice-Chancellor, this is not a major problem for you. You're saying that's how it is, and you can't do much at the moment. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: That's wrong!]] But what does that mean in practice? 1 kilograms flour has become 65 percent more expensive between June 2021 and March 2022. – Yes, you can say you can’t do anything about it. 1 kilo of rice has become 40 percent more expensive. – Yes, you can say that you can't do anything. At the end of the month, a third of the population already has to be restricted when shopping: Am I buying something to eat or am I going to drink? – Yes, you can say that you can't do anything. I feel you just don't care. I feel you really don't care. They do not lead the country through the crisis, they bring the crisis into this country, ladies and gentlemen, and that is political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, it would be relatively easy to help quickly and to help in such a way that you also notice not to send vouchers, of which half does not arrive, a third is wrong and the rest do not know whether to exchange vouchers or not. You can quickly and temporarily reduce VAT on different products [[Abg. Soundmeiner: What does not bring!]] On petrol you can lower them, on food you can reduce them, on gas you can reduce them, on energy you can reduce them. And you can also check if this price reduction is passed on. Please don't come with me with social security! When you lowered the corporate tax for the millionaires, there was no mention of social security. That's where you met where you wanted to meet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, what really scared me – “Red” is a good point – was your party speech. [[Call to the ÖVP:Your speech? Social democracy?]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: No, that scares us!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: The result scared you!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: 100 percent he got, not 75!]] That was relatively original in several points, but one thing you said was really terrifying: You said you had to make sure that the poor didn't get poorer. How cynical can you be, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – So you’re satisfied that the people who are already poor don’t get poorer. The opposite should be the case: It must be ensured that they will be better in the future, and not that it will remain the way it is, Federal Chancellor. This is social policy of social democracy in contrast to what the EIA operates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Where is the Rendi-Wagner at all?]] [[Call the ÖVP: In Burgenland!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Another point to the pandemic: We are now in the third year of this pandemic, and there is already no plan for the summer, there is no plan for the autumn. You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, declare at the ÖVP party that the virus is meat for you. If this virus is used to you, Mr. Bundeskanzler: What does that mean for people who adhere to the rules every day? [[Call to the ÖVP: How was that in Vienna?]] – You should think about whether you give such things of yourself in the future! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] What about the changeover to renewable energies? [[Abg. Wöginger: Have we done it already!]] Everyone talks about it, some say it would be great if the Greens were in the government, so it went faster. – Hoppla, they’re in government! Nevertheless, nothing has happened for exactly 500 days. The Austrian Federal Government has not succeeded in anchoring a legal climate change target. Where is it? What about the Energy Efficiency Act? What about the renewable heat law? [[Abg. Wöger: I'm done already!]] What about a concrete plan for gas safety and energy transition? – headlines! headlines and show are too little if the actions are missing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are already on show, another word about your care reform: We have 7 percent inflation. Why is the care allowance increased by only 1.8 percent? Who pays the rest, I ask you? Who should take care of the care costs? What about the care scholarship, why only from 2023? Why isn't that 2022? Why do you have for all that You told me today, nothing in the budget? – What you are doing is once again pure show policy! [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what we decide first, the 23rd! Hello?- Oh, my God!]] You haven't learned anything from the era. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's terrible!]] And one, Col. Wöginger: As the Federal Government to instruct the social partners, as you said in your speech on care, these times are fortunately over in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You did nothing else!]] [[Abg. Haubner: There the own will not be very excited!]] [[Abg. Zarits: Congratulations!]] This government is no longer capable of action. This government is clearly failing when it comes to the cost of energy supply or social security. This government shifts important reforms, is concerned with itself, and does nothing more. [[Abg. Wöginger: Have we packed the wrong speech?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger.]] That's why we're making a new request today. You can now decide whether to stick further together, whether or not You continue to stick to power or to assume your responsibility for the Republic. That's your decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10028	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10052	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to address you directly: If you have not yet noticed – outside the gates of this Parliament and outside in front of the gates of your Federal Chancellery, the Vice-Cancellor's Office and the Ministries – this country is currently rolling the biggest wave of inflation for 40 years. Millions of people are affected by this, who feel what is happening on their own body, on their own skin – and daily it becomes more. All of this is happening in a country that, according to its own definition, is one of the richest countries in the world. Every day the situation gets worse, every day it is more urgent to be helped quickly, unbureaucratically and immediately, but nothing like that happens. [[Abg. Hoefinger: There's something you missed! You didn't look after me again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] Why is nothing like that happening, ladies and gentlemen? – Because this government is very, very far from people’s concerns and needs, because you have long lost the population. You are quite, very close to your own concerns and needs, that is the only one you have been working for many, many months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Self-employment, self-congratulation, self-congratulation – this is the work programme of this government, but certainly not policy for the people out there. But that would be appropriate if you were to speak of respect. The population would have deserved their respect and not the retired politicians who have gone because their current account is a devastating, keyword department store Austria, keyword locking the federal gardens in the middle of the pandemic. This is a disaster, and you should not thank yourself for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's just take a look at the calendar together. I'll read you some data: 29. ==References== January 2021, 21. April 2021, 7. ==References== October 2021, 9. ==References== ==References====External links== May 2022. I think that's a pretty long list. This is a rather long list of declarations of government, of statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor here in this House. On average, there is such an event every three months. While you are making yourself here and talking about things that are not nice to talk about as you come here, explain to us the world and grow up and while you are making yourself here and your post-carousel continues to work, the country is going downhill. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Gabriela Schwarz.]] Carousel keyword: Mr. Federal Chancellor Nehammer, you're the third German Chancellor in two and a half years, and that's what you're listening to now! – although you yourself have promised with your signature to the Austrian people high and holy that you are gone when short away. You have confirmed this with your signature, but you are still sitting there and are still giving explanations. You know what to believe about your credibility, what to think of your handshake quality, what to keep from your sincerity and honesty, that is, nothing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: What is this speech? That's incredible!]] Dear colleague Wöginger, perhaps you can help your Federal Chancellor and party chairman a bit on the jumps: What is the eighth commandment? What is the eighth commandment, dear August? - Don't lie! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, it is obvious that you have forgotten everything. But you can't wipe your signature away as easily as you can at a party meeting, change a few taferls before, rename yourself and then skinn like a snake to get out of this turquoise stuff and slip back into the old black. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, maybe have You thought it was still sausaged because you are not the only one who does not take the eighth commandment seriously. There are also Mrs. Edtstadler, the heart quality in person. [[New call of the abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Mrs Edtstadler is the one who has declared the Austrian population, in this case the unvaccinated, illegal in its own country. Ms. Edtstadler has also promised that she will resign, and she will still pick – without skrupel – at her chair, and so on and so on. What about what you're saying, are you supposed to take seriously? – The credibility is with the famous devil. It would be better if you pack together today – and not just tomorrow – and clear the way for new elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the Meanwhile, we have the third Minister of Health: All bad things are three. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Mr Rauch, what did you think about it when you stood up on the last Health Committee and said: I don't let the vaccination be bad, there are no serious side effects associated with the vaccination, and deaths are not there at all! Mr Rauch, you are among the blunders, science is saying something else in the meantime. You are in the meantime of the Schurbler! If you act like this, you must apply for Pfizer, Minister of Health, and not for this office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jewellery:... has applied medicine!]] In the meantime, we have the second Minister of the Interior – we have to suffer him, I say now –: The man would certainly be suitable for much, he is the ideal occupation with a 100% certainty when it comes to the curator post of the Dolfuss Museum. That's where he belongs, that's perfect. Basically, however, he is a total failure when it comes to Austrian - - [[Interlocutors Gabriela Schwarz, Michael Hammer and Hörl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10178	Mr Klubobmann, I would like to ask you, in the course of your speech, to be moderate in terms of expression. There were a few statements with which I have not interrupted you now, but I would ask you to maintain the dignity of the house in the course of the course.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10217	Madam President, quite honestly, if you are concerned about the dignity of the house, then you should actually look at it – you do it with your party – that these rulers leave the government better today than tomorrow and we get a new composition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, we have the second Minister for Education. This is also a very special one, the Minister of Education. It's one that's more visible than its policies. [[Call the FPÖ: That's right!]] Yes, are we really so far that we show up in connection with the government as in a casting show? - That's the way it is. [[Call the ÖVP: That says one, the horses...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I haven't heard anything politically yet, but if he gets his hair cut, he makes headlines. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's what the horse dealer says!]] In the meantime, we have a Finance Minister, who is also the successor of a refugee – who has fled from justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] It is only a matter of time until these Vorarlberg cleaners also pick you up, Mr Finanzminister. [[Abg. Wöginger: It's going on again!]] That's just a matter of time. .. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] In the meantime, we have the second Minister of Agriculture – that is again one of the farmers' associations. The Federal Farmers' Association is the institution responsible in the country for the fact that in recent years and decades thousands of peasant farms have entered and those who have survived have arrived in a new form of property. They depend on you, on the peasantry. In the meantime, we have the second Minister of Labour, who is still the Minister for Economic Affairs. This is the new superminister now. By the way, the Superminister is also a super photographer, as we have known since the ORF gala. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's something very special – I brought you something. [[Call to the ÖVP: The speech is self-evident!]] That's the new dirt you're going to get: We have a superministerial now. [[Abg. Haubner: The horse dealer speaks to us!]] The Superministerium is the merger of the work area with the economics sector. This is now the new Superministerium, and that is now the right answer to the problems of time. Now, Mr Kogler, sharpen your ears and listen carefully, I brought a quote! I quote: “In the economy, this is called enemy takeover, in politics, the integration of policies and interests means incompatibility. Whoever pays for it in this policy is obvious". - Quote. I add: Whoever pays for it, it's the workers. This quote comes from – did it ring, Mr Kogler? – by a certain Alexander Van der Bellen, your predecessor as the Federal spokesman of the Greens. This shows the state in which this country is, that the same Alexander Van der Bellen, who then spoke of an enemy takeover, carried out this enemy takeover in the form of a fishing draw a few days ago. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a weak speech!]] This fits only in the image of the state of this republic. It's all just a pity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then the state secretaries shoot out of the ground like the Schwammerl. The State Secretarys are now the new Wunderwaffe. The State Secretarys are the Wonder Wuzzis, who will now judge it. I think it is exciting to look at what it actually takes to become State Secretary in Austria. We just heard: For example, State Secretary of State for Digitalization, which is the absolutely comprehensive area, is all about everything. It's about the last things, that's the key to the future. What do you need to be able to do in order to become a State Secretary for Digitalization? - Now we've been looking at it a little bit. The new Secretary of State has been working in the office of ÖVP Landeshuptmann Platter before his fishing observation since 2017. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] It is new to me that Mr. Platter's office would be the epicenter for technological progress in Austria. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hear: But hello!]] - All right, but no matter what. [[Abg. Haubner: Go to the cabaret, that's where you're going!]] There he was a press speaker, there he was head of the office of Günther Platter and he certainly wrote a lot of text messages and emails – but is that the digital competence needed to conduct such a state secretariat? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to be unjust, I've looked a bit further. What was before 2015? – There the Secretary of State was in a PR agency called P8 – that sounds similar to an Italian loge, but the ÖVP belongs. This agency used to be called Courtlor. There the young black careerists are encouraged, and they are so to speak put aside the old blacks, and this should be a symbiosis when it comes to the abuse of the institutions. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] There he was, and there he had a very famous workmate, and the famous workmate was none other than Ernst Strasser. The new State Secretary of State for Digitalization is therefore a curriculum of Mr Platter and Mr Strasser. This is, as it were, what you have to show in this country in order to get to a position. This is not a question of competence, it is about the right smell of stables, and I call the abuse of the institutions in this country, something else is not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe you'll find that all normal. Honestly, I'm excited, I see this a little differently. We used to laugh at the Italian conditions, today the Italians laugh at us. The government is the purest doorway. What's being listed here is a flea circus. I have heard that the President of the Federal Republic no longer dares to travel abroad, because he is afraid that he will not be here if there is another fishing observation. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] We have already brought it that far in this country. In view of this situation, I think it is honestly an insult to the Austrian population, when you go here and in connection with all this chaos and this Drunter and Drover – how did it say today? – speaks clarity, efficiency, structure, transparency, responsibility and stability. This is really an insult to the intelligence of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only kitt is the fear of elections. This is the only kitt that holds together those sitting here: the fear of punishment by the population. [[pointing towards the government bank]] It's not about shaping – not a single second. It's not about the best minds – with no personnel decision, not at all. It's not about bringing something forward, it's about surviving as a green and an ÖVP – another day and another day and another day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger]] That is what you are in fact urging – and that is what I call abuse of the institutions of this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. The people out there who listen and watch know quite well that new faces are not equivalent to a new policy. I ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Bundeskanzler, but now quite directly: What are the consequences of this government reform in the context of covid policy? Does this government transformation now mean that with all this evidence-free insanity – starting from the masks over this strange test regime to the vaccination force, which has only been laid on ice and has not been abolished – has finally ended? [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] Does that mean the end? If this is the innovation, is all of this deleted? – No, of course not! The whole thing goes on as before. The mobilization of the vaccination requirement has now been put into the underground, the doses of vaccination have already been ordered and in autumn it will be re-approached. The measures required by law to remove the next lockdown have already been launched, with the active support of the Social Democrats. So now the viruses take care of the Federal Chancellor again after his own party day is over. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not have a false illusion: The whole thing doesn't get any better when the SPÖ presents the Federal Chancellor. They have driven it exactly the same way that they might make it even worse in the context of the Covid policy. So that would not improve the situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you: Does this – I don't know the amount of government reform now mean that a rapid and uncomplicated contribution is being made to combating the price? - No, not at all. On the contrary, people are you. That the snakes in front of the social markets are getting longer and longer is going by you somewhere. It doesn't make you sleepless nights. On the contrary, you even sleep very well because the Minister of Finance cashed and cashed and cashed, while the population suffers and suffers and suffers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger.]] I ask you: Is this government reform perhaps at least an end to this knee-shooting policy, which results in a wave of inflation in the energy sector? Is that happening now? [[Call the ÖVP:... speaking time!]] – And the answer is: No, of course not. On the contrary, you are really looking forward to the oil embargo, you cannot expect it at all. I'll tell you: The negative development will overshadow you if the gas embargo comes after the oil embargo and you have nothing to do with it. Then it will be evening on the Puszta in Austria. They negligently hate the prosperity that generations have built up in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we can still ask: Is this government reform at last a policy that protects our borders from illegal immigration? At least that! Is that done? Is it finally closing? You know it's just like this: Syrer, Afghan, Tunisian. We already have numbers like 2016. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] And there too: No, no, no, No, nothing again! No change! Furthermore, asylum homes are locked up instead of being locked up. Furthermore, asylum seekers are being distributed against the will of the population throughout the country. And if someone in this area gets out of control and is suspected of having raped someone, then he continues to walk around freely, while your own people are being persecuted by police measures, so to speak. Nothing's changed! Where it's important everywhere: No, no, no, no. I wonder, What's the whole thing you're presenting? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the clear text this means that the trip to the valley will continue in this country, that people will continue to be left in the rain until new elections – and there is no other instrument – put a final act under this bourgeois-green mourning game. That's the truth. The Federal President didn't have the mumm to press the button. He would have the opportunity. He preferred the extension of suffering. You are now pleased that you have come over your party days and so on, you are pleased that you are allowed to sit in your offices for a few days, but you forget one: With every day you experience there, the election day is moving a bit closer, and this election day will be the day of the great billing – I am prophesying to you today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This election day will be a day that offers the initial inflammation for the Freedom Party to take side with the population to take over the cleaning work in this country. [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] This will be the initial inflammation for us to light out the dark corners in your corruption swamp. It will be the start of the fact that nothing, but nothing else, that belongs to the light, can somehow be concealed. And: Mr Nehammer and Mr Kogler, unlike you, I keep my promises.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10547	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10569	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! In particular, new Secretary of State, valued new Secretary of State and new Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yeah, after that speech, I have to deal with what Klubobmann Kickl has spread here. [[Abg. Singer: Breathe!]] I think it is very brave of you, Mr Kickl, that you are at this speaker's desk, and that I think it's a good idea for the Austrian people to be advocating that you are producing yourself and accusing the government of abuse of the institutions and lack of qualifications. When we talk about abuse of institutions: Your candidate for the Federal presidential election has stood up and said we will still wonder what's going to happen. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, we wonder anyway!]] That was the Freedom Party: an open threat to the Constitution. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Let us take a look at the qualifications in your series: What do you qualify for yourself? – Two aborted studies. You were a great interior minister! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] That you were Minister of the Interior was one of the biggest mistakes in this Republic over the past 20 years, and it is extremely good that You're not sitting on the government bench anymore. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] When we talk about qualifications that suddenly seem so important to you: What about Sidlo? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] What about Mrs. Hartinger-Klein? How would we have come through a pandemic with Mrs. Hartinger-Klein? – So, Mr Kickl, you take your mouth very full for what you have already broken in this country. I think you should really get involved in your statements!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10679	Mrs. Club Chairman! I also ask you to be moderate. One can also express one's opinion without insulting others.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10718	Today, of course, we have heard some criticism of the government's work from the opposition side. That is their good right, and this is true of course in a democracy, but I would like to ask those – and this is the case with social democracy – who are now criticizing a supposed inaction of the government, I would like to go back to the ground of the facts and invite them to look at the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is what we need to be measured at – and not personal discussions – and I would also like to say at this point: It is also in your responsibility – no matter what party – that we have enormous challenges in this country! [[Abg. Smoking: You can't handle because you're not able to do it!]] The pandemic that is not over, the excitement, a war in Ukraine: We have huge challenges ahead of us, and that which you are dealing exclusively with in a debate on the occasion of government reform, are abuses in all directions and certainly nothing forward-looking in any way, which includes the solutions to the great problems of this time. [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:... no solutions!]] That's where I've got to say: This is very weak, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Those who deal with reality will have to see and acknowledge that this government has been working permanently for two and a half years to deal with these crises as best as possible and to make life better for people in our country. [[Call the SPÖ: Best possible!]] We have already discussed the care today: 1 billion euros to improve the situation of the caregivers, the caregivers and the caregivers. [[Abg. Smoking: You don't know what to do...]] 1 billion euros! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again towards social democracy, whose representatives come here and complain that nothing has happened for so long and everything is too late: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] After who put the Federal Chancellor? Who put the Minister of Social Affairs? – It was social democrats, and they have not achieved what we have presented with this care reform. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Other topics: Since we took on Green Responsibility in this country, climate protection has gone on as much as all the decades before. Jörg Leichtfried, you were Minister of Infrastructure and Transport! Where was the climate ticket under your rule? - I didn't find it in your balance sheet. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Climate ticket, eco-social tax reform, plastic deposit, renewable development law, climate billions for the exit from oil and gas: All these are things that we have put to the ground in this government, and these are the topics that are forward-looking, which are aimed at solutions! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have taken targeted measures to relieve people with low incomes: Unemployment benefit, emergency aid, social assistance increased several times, with Minister Kocher introducing an educational bonus, 180 euro support for unemployed in education and training, wage tax reduction, social security bonus increased et cetera, et cetera. Development package: 300 euros of cost compensation – they are already on their way – and the 150 euros of energy cost compensation, and of course we are working on another package to address the problem of costing properly. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you are here, Mr Leichtfried, and I would like to explain how bad this government would be, I am sorry to say at this point: Who put us in this situation? Who brought us into this massive dependence on Putin? – It was also the Social Democracy! [[Call the ÖVP: The Kickl!]] It was a German Chancellor's core, which despite sanctions at Putin was shot. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The responsibility for many problems that we Greens now have to solve, for example, with a care minister smoke, are also due to you and your inactivity! [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you doing?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I said it: We've made a lot of progress, even in the shadow of the pandemic. We have certainly sold a lot of things, as you say, but we have delivered properly, and I can promise you that we will continue to deliver, even with new ministers and new State Secretarys, because that is what we need to look at: the solutions for people in the future – and not staff discussions. [[Abg. Kickl: Still? Again?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That was important to us. That is why I am also glad that this change of government has taken place quickly and that we can continue to work well. I would also like to say again at this point: Thank you, Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck! [[Cheerfulness of Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] I would also like to say at this point – in all legitimate criticism of the performance of ministers – that: We have a double standard regarding women as regards the question of how women are measured in what way – and this is true here too. It is not true that every man who has held a government office in the last ten years has been a gold grip. Nevertheless, women are assessed differently, this is also to be said here. [[Abg. Kickl:... ever criticize everything...!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Kickl, also your comment on the hairstyle of the Minister for Education, is simply the lower drawer. This is not the way we are talking here in Parliament, which should not be our standard. [[Abg. Kickl: Why? His way of making public work!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] I welcome the new State Secretary, Mr Turksy and Mrs Kraus-Winkler here in the House! I also welcome the new Minister Todschnig in his new office, and we already know Martin Kocher. I am very confident that you will continue your expertise in both areas. I also very much appreciate that you are an ally in the great task of coping with the climate crisis. We will continue to work consistently on the major issues that we must resolve in this Republic. We're not getting rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10965	Next speaker: Ms. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e10987	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, dear viewers, this is really a great picture: Only now do I see how many people there are on the top of the gallery. Welcome to the Austrian Parliament! I think that looks great. Welcome here, and of course also the spectators at home! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear Mrs. Maurer! So the appeal to work in terms of content and not to have any personal discussions – mmh, I do not know whether this is really addressed to Parliament or whether it would not be better to appeal to one's own ranks and, above all, to the coalition partner. [[Head and hands from left to right major]] I hope we counted right, it's the 20. Government statement that we have here in Parliament during this legislative period – there was much to be explained – we are also in crises, there is a lot of need for explanation – and it is now, I believe, the seventh, if we have not told ourselves, on the occasion of government transformation. So, in any case, the intensity of the staff discussion does not depend on Parliament, which I would like to stress very strongly. Government declarations are always special moments. I have to say quite honestly, however, the sublimeness of the moment benefits a little with the number, but the solemnity of this very democratically important moment then a little bit of disillusionment of the political downfalls. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] Now there are many people who say: Should I even remember the new names or come back in a few weeks new names? This is also a question that the government itself must ask whether the change of government members is not a little inflationary. However, I would like to say, and I simply do not want to doubt that, on behalf of my group and also as citizens, we really want everything good to all the new members of the government and state secretaries. We need a capable government and therefore it is – now every party tactics and opposition except Keeping an eye on – just important that the country is working well, and you can only wish for it all the best. I would also like to thank the former ministers Köstinger and Schramböck, on behalf of my group, for the fact that I believe that this is the case, and that is not the case, of course, of a society, of a community, of a country – although it is undisputed that we have not only crossed the sword of content nature, and that we welcome the change, above all, of a minister, because we were not quite convinced that she had grown the dimension of the task. - I think that's how you deal with each other. Maybe I'll say this again at this point: Mr Kickl, yes, we can already talk here as in the inn, but I do, but I do not think that the house is doing anything good, it does nothing good for democracy. [[Abg. Kickl: You talk as you like, I talk as I want!]] Also in the inn there are people who say: Hey, Herbert, just be quiet! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens. - Abg. Kickl... liberal party!]] I am of the opinion that a certain disposition, a certain way of dealing with each other, especially in such situations, in such times of crisis, is something that politics does more well, you do policy with your style, I think, perhaps not such a good thing. [[Abg. Kickl: We all know that you really want to be there!]] The question, however, is whether the government is actually doing something good with today's government reform of politics, because I am already wondering about this change of government: Is it really about the country? [[Call the ÖVP: Sure!]] Is it really about the people in our country? Is it really about the challenges that we have to vote on, or is it not more about internal logic, about the logic of the ÖVP, and ultimately also a little about the despair of the ÖVP, which is expressed there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] Do you actually understand the seriousness of the situation we are in? – The seriousness of the situation – in many, many areas – in which we are located has already been addressed by previous speakers. Putin has attacked Ukraine against international law. Putin has also attacked Europe, that is, there is war in Europe. No country is as little protected as Austria, that's what you have to say at this point. A genuine security policy debate is not being held, nor, in particular, by this government. I think that this is a real refusal if the head is put in the sand and said that we are leaning back, so to speak, on the pleasantly warm soil of an interpretation of neutrality that has actually long been part of the past, and that also fits! We reject a geopolitical situation in which we are surrounded by EU Member States and NATO states that protect us, but in this situation we are not prepared to reinterpret neutrality and to say, for example, we have now learned war on European soil and it is necessary to see that as a turn of time and now to interpret neutrality as solidarity in relation to Europe and, for example, to make a clear statement regarding a clause of assistance rather than calling for us to say that we are waiting for others to defend us, but we are not doing anything. There is no debate, there is no dialogue, it is being moderated. The situation with regard to price increases is also serious. It's also Putin and Putin's war – your friend Putin, Mr. Kickl! – which increases energy prices. [[Abg. Kickl: There you are anyway... with Mr. Hazelsteiner one...!]] I would also like to say at this point: It is important and right that we always discuss the poorest in our society, but these price increases have arrived fully in the middle of our society. This is not just about the poorest households, it is about the middle of society, which does not know how it is going to continue, how it - especially medium-sized enterprises - should spend the money on energy costs. So we're in an exorbitant wave, which will actually reach an exorbitant amount of tsunami. Yes, Mrs Maurer, individual measures have already been listed, but what is the big overall plan on this question? Where is the approach away from working groups, headlines and media interviews to say: So, now we're really getting rid of the cold progression!? . We must not only withdraw them, Minister of Finance, we must abolish them so that we can achieve a sustainable discharge of taxpayers and, in particular, the middle, so that not only these increased prices can be achieved, but we can build up something again. What do you say to the people who mean: It doesn't matter how hard I work, I can't build up anything, it doesn't matter anymore!Unknown term type: "%s".? Are you saying we're doing a working group? – I’m convinced that’s not going to happen. [[moving the upper body from left to right]] Or the situation of medium-sized enterprises: You will certainly also get addresses from businesses, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who are completely desperate. They say now we have had two years of pandemic, by the way, we are still at the Cofag and can argue! - No, not no! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] So please, just from the Economic Federation you can really expect him to be on the side of the businesses on this issue and not on the side of opposition. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Do you know how many businesses are still fighting and getting no notice with the help of dozens of tax advisors and auditors at the Cofag, therefore, can't do anything and depend on the civil law path, because you have designed it the way you have designed it – intrusive and, as far as possible, hostile to citizens? – These plants are now faced with energy costs, which are, in some cases, actually at risk of existence. In 2019, a medium-sized operation in Upper Austria still had an energy cost calculation of – what was the invoice? –7 500 euros a month, I think, then it has become almost 30 000 euros. So these are inconceivable increases up to the edge of economic efficiency. Where is the great cost reduction? Mr Finanzminister – or I am also saying now, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, because your predecessor has explained that they are not going to do anything as Minister of Economic Affairs – they are not about perhaps 0.1 percentage points, but they are really substantial in addition to wage reductions, which may also mean that there is a budgetary need to do something – what we need in pension insurance, in health care anyway – in order to enable, above all, that there are genuine collective bargaining negotiations, in which workers can pay off this price and this inflation with correspondingly higher wages and salaries. On the topic of energy and security of energy supply: Yeah, I read what was presented today. I find this amazingly little after four months. I also find it amazingly little, because this should only work in autumn and then we go with a questionable gas storage supply to a winter in which we continue to deliver Putin completely. The search for alternatives is also completely out of the way I understood it – so there was Her colleague Habeck in Germany has been much more offensive and has managed to reduce dependence. Yes, the Greens are not guilty of this dependence on Putin – we are not to blame either, since you need to talk to SPÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP! But now it's just high time to present a real plan. It takes more than 1.2 percentage points – or even 10 percentage points that you don't care about yourself – we need alternatives so we can go safely in the winter. What to do You yourself, Mrs. Minister, to create alternatives? – I don't understand at all: We're just not prepared! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Minister of Education is not here today. For a party that sees education as the key to a self-determined life in which everyone and everyone can build up something, it is already amazing in view of this turn of time that nothing, but also nothing in education policy Area comes – without me making jokes about the fact that it's his hairstyle that's in the headlines, but he's not even here! There is absolutely no positive picture of the future where our country is supposed to develop on education issues. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have one more point, I would like to say something to the ÖVP. I've been listening to this party day a little bit [[Abg. Eßl: Would you like to have been there?]] This can be done to beat up justice and to say that it has all become wild in the courts, and you are so insidiously poor. But one might also look at it sometime – the FPÖ might well face it, two years after the Ibiza video – and say: [[Call: Three Years]] Okay, we got it! Just as we – in structural structures – have ruled this country over the past decades and have put ourselves in everywhere, we can no longer do so. In fact, we misuse our office, we abuse some of our taxpayers, we abuse power for the benefit of our party, and that is no longer possible. Friendly economy must have an end, the operation on the tax pot must have an end, and it is only good that the justice is now no longer looking away, but looking at it. You could also stand up – perhaps also hand in hand with the FPÖ, partly with the SPÖ – and say: We understand, we need a new policy now, we need clean policies now! [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you'll bring the Wiener SPÖ to it!]] But you don't do that – it's always everyone else's fault. I have to give it to my predecessor Kickl, and people will pay you home on the election day and show you: That's not how it goes! [[Abg. Hoefinger: You are in a bubble at home, where it is only about the choice!]] You have divided the land, red and black, and you have exaggerated it. It must end with this, as I call it, structural corruption. You really have to give this a sign: We have understood and cleaned up with it now! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We as Parliament have complied with the entire pandemic through our commitment as a legislative one. We are opposed not only to our obligation to control, but also to NEOS, as we understand it, to make proposals in terms of security policy in terms of energy supply, with regard to the support of the medium-sized countries, with regard to the discharge of people, in particular with regard to the suspension of inflation and the future field of education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We will continue to do so, but this federal government must finally deliver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11186	Mr Martin Kocher has now spoken. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes, I also set the time at the speaker's desk to guide you. [[Call the ÖVP:But at Kickl and at the Meinl-Reisinger...!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11215	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, visitors who are here today! I deliberately start with an express thanks to my predecessor at the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Economic Location Margarete Schramböck. In spite of many challenges, the economic location of Austria – I say a lot later on – is well placed, and Margarete Schramböck has handed me a very, very well ordered house. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have a great deal of respect for this task and with this respect go to the task. If the law is passed, there will be a ministry that brings together the areas of work and business, together with tourism. I am particularly pleased to be able to work with Susanne Kraus-Winkler in the area of tourism, which has high competence and has a lot of experience. This will be important in this sector, which has faced particularly great economic challenges in recent years due to the pandemic. There, too, Elli Köstinger as a predecessor in the tourist resort was a person who ran tirelessly and left very large steps behind: Thank you to her too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The concentration of the topics of work, economy and tourism in a ministry offers many opportunities. There are many pressing issues of time where cooperation and joint solutions are needed between these areas. I am thinking of the location as a whole, not only the economic location, but also the employment location. I am thinking of the demographics and the challenge of training professionals for the future in teaching and keeping in Austria or of bringing them to Austria. Of course, I am also thinking of the acute challenges of the war of Russia in Ukraine and its economic consequences. We will still be called upon to do so in many speeches. I am also thinking of the digital and green transformation, which is not only about the decision about where we want to go, but also about the implementation: This is about labour, it is about the legal framework and it is about supporting the people and businesses on the way we are going here. I also know and take very seriously the fears as to the aggregation of responsibilities. I believe, however, that opportunities outweigh and that it is possible – and for that I guarantee – to keep the balance and make just right decisions. The BMDW and the BMA have already cooperated very closely, we have developed many topics in common: in the field of apprenticeship training, in the further development of the red-and-white red card or in the measures that should reduce the economic impact of the Covid pandemic. That means that all this is now in a house and can be done even more rigorously, faster and better. Of course there are other examples: We have had such a ministry, it has already been mentioned, even under Social Democratic Chancellorship. There are several ministries in Europe that unite work and business, for example in Ireland and also in Belgium – so this is not an exceptional case. I will definitely be there for all workers, for all jobseekers, for all self-employed and for all entrepreneurs, and in the ministry I will make this balance of interests, as well as so far, subject-oriented, unexcited and serious. Of course, I will continue to cooperate very closely with the social partners: This is very important to me, I am expressing this. There are no orders to the social partners, how briefly they have been addressed, but a common relationship. It will not always be possible for everyone to agree to everything, there will always be conflicts of interest, but at the end of the day, the solutions must be fair and I stand for that. I would like to say a few things about the current situation as far as work and business are concerned – I still have one minute, I think, very briefly – in order to keep facts and fiction apart. We don't have a simple time, the prospects are uncertain, that's right, but fortunately, with a very good starting point in these difficult times. In the labour market, unemployment is not as low as it has been for 14 years, youth unemployment is as low as since 2002, i.e. for 20 years, and long-term unemployment is also below the pre-crisis level. With regard to the economy: Yesterday, the European Commission reaffirmed the growth prospects for Austria. There are still growth prospects of 3.9 percent for the current year. This is with uncertainty, but these are better prospects for growth than in Germany and Switzerland, it is the fifth highest growth rate in Europe. So we can go with a robust, robust economic situation in difficult times and we will take the right measures. I am looking forward to continuing good cooperation with all of you in the House when it comes to these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11288	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Your speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes, Minister of State. I also welcome you to the High House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11310	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a great honour for me to be able to present myself here in Parliament today. In 2001, my career as a parliamentary employee of the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Georg Schwarzenberger – I don't know, perhaps someone else – started over 20 years ago. My political commitment then led me through the ÖVP Parliamentary Club – that is why many know me – to the financial and economic sector and finally to the head of the agricultural interest agency, the Farmer's Federation, where I have been able to work with great passion for our farmers over the past five years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is the same track! That's parallel!]] The fact that I am now the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management and Regions – which will be my future responsibilities – is a great privilege. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] I thank the Federal Chancellor and the Coalition Partner for their trust. I will accept this task with full humility and joy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I would like to take the opportunity to briefly formulate my goals and values. As you know, I'm a farmer's son and family man. So agriculture has shaped me since my early childhood, and of course I will also bring these experiences into office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] What do I mean by that? – First, that the work at the farm knows no working hours or days of the week, that work is taking place and must be done, furthermore, that we look at our animals and, most importantly, that only a sustainable economy in the stable, on the fields, on the meadows, in the forest, to the alpine pastures really secures the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Call at the FPÖ: What do I need in the 7th century? District?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Looking back over the past years and decades on what has happened to farmers and agriculture, we see that the sector is undergoing enormous structural and technological change. And this change must be accompanied. Innovations need to be made, investment is needed, and farmers need a high level of entrepreneurial skill in addition to agricultural expertise. Our farmers are professionals, otherwise they would not be able to stand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate change with drought, heavy rain and pests such as the Borkenkäfer – the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has addressed it at the Angelobung – demands us enormously. Climate change hits agriculture and forestry first and hardest, and that is why we want to be part of the solution. In addition, the increasing demand of society and markets in terms of animal and environmental protection is added. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] At the same time, competitiveness must increase. Markets are characterised by high price sensitivity for businesses and consumers. Whoever is too expensive is flying out of the shelf, only: Quality is not at zero. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] When I focus on it, I have always pursued two objectives in all my functions, and I would like to continue to do so in the future. The first is to accompany our farmers in the best possible way through these challenges in order to ensure high-quality food supply for our people, because not politics ensures food supply, but our farmers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to address a value which is very important to me in my work, and this value leads me to the eco-social market economy. It describes the Austrian way in agriculture, it is a path already copied by many. The eco-social market economy is my compass to addressing all the challenges. It is always about the balance between economically viable, ecologically feasible and socially balanced. If any action corresponds to this triangular sound, we will set the right course in a sustainable future. For me, eco-social economy means working ahead, benefiting from the benefits of regional cycles, keeping production under the highest standards in Austria, instead of importing animal suffering. We now stand at the half-time of the government. When we look back and look at the government programme in the Agriculture and Forestry chapter, we see that very, very many projects and measures have already been completed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I would like to mention the intensive negotiations on the common agricultural policy from 2023 – we will adopt the laws tomorrow – or the eco-social tax reform up to the designation of origin. At this point I would also like to thank my predecessor Elisabeth Köstinger for her years of work, for her commitment and for her passion in politics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In short, to my priorities for the next time that I am concerned about: The Federal Chancellor has referred to it, the Federal President has addressed it – food security has gained enormous importance through the pandemic and through the attack war in Ukraine. This has focused on food supply. We see that the prices for energy, for feed, for resources have increased enormously and demand our farms. However, food supply in Austria is now – and that must be said – secure. We have a high degree of self-sufficiency in basic food, and my task will be to ensure that it remains the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Second issue: It is necessary that we relieve our farmers and give them planning security. That is why we welcome the package announced by the Federal Government. The details are still being worked out and will be presented soon. Third point: to promote regions. I come from the country and live in the city. I know the advantages and disadvantages, and I am very concerned that equal opportunities between city and country will be further improved. In conclusion, very briefly: Anyone who knows me knows I'm looking for good collaboration at an eye level. Of course, I am looking for talks with all the parliamentary parties and with the social partners. I am particularly concerned about the discussions with the agricultural speakers. As a former club secretary, I learned how parliamentary work works. I have remained the fascination for parliamentarianism. I have inhaled that Parliament is the heart of democracy. I will keep that up and appreciate and look forward to a good cooperation with you and many joint projects. [[Abg. Hear: Bravo!]] – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11473	Including the speaking time agreement, Minister! Mr Peter Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11505	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers! We have referred to it: Yes, Austria is a strong business location with many great companies, from companies to business leaders and SMEs to the EPCs. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Despite the government!]] And Austria is also a country in which the relationship between employers and employees works excellently. This good co-operation, the commitment of each and every individual, creates the basis for the good development of our country. We agree on this. In particular, we have looked at the fact that the support services such as short-time work, fixed-cost grant and many more entrepreneurs are well accompanied by this crisis. I think Mrs Colleague, there will be one case or another, that is perfectly clear to me, but most of the entrepreneurs and companies have received support. [[towards Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] It's important to me to say this, too. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I would also like to say that with the investment premium under Mrs Schramböck, who I would also like to thank warmly, we have created a measure that has enabled investment in the future, precisely in the areas we have pictured in the government programme. That is why I am pleased that the sectors of economics and employment are reunited in a ministry, because we are all, employers and employees. It is very important that we also picture these areas in the ministry, a field of work and a sector of economy. Dear Martin Kocher, I really thank you for taking over this task because you are an absolute expert, and many appreciate your expertise and expertise! We now need these qualities in view of the major challenges, not only because of the geopolitical situation, but also the challenges that the economy has every day. When we look at the numbers – you cut them –: Economic growth in Austria is still on a good footing. It is very important that we continue to take the right measures now, and that is where you have launched the right initiatives. – Thank you for that! If we can now welcome new members of the government and new State Secretarys who are bringing in their professional competence, their time, then we must also say thank you. – I say to you: You will need a thick skin, because – you have already experienced it today – it is also important to keep personal attacks without quality! I also wish you, ladies and gentlemen, a certain kind of serenity. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am particularly pleased that tourism is coming back to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and that we have a competent entrepreneur who, with her policy of interest in Austria and Europe, has already demonstrated that she will accompany the Austrian hoteliers and host businesses very well. . I wish you, Mrs State Secretary, much success and the energy you need for your new task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] Austria is to be found in the top European field of digitalisation in the public sector, but there is a lot of new impulses to set up and pool innovations, because the world is simply becoming more digital, it is getting faster, and of course we have to take the people in our country on the journey and also take the fears of them. Florian Tursky is an experienced politician who will securely provide this digital future as a State Secretary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] . I also wish you very much success, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] I would also like to say one more thing: We have been elected for five years, and we will continue to work for the people of Austria. We are committed to the discharge of the people, we have promised to fight the price, we stand for security of supply and energy security – they are on the top of the To-do list – and that is why I tell you: continue to work for our Austria! Marble, stone and iron break, this coalition certainly not.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11619	The next speaker is Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11640	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the number of Federal Ministers, Federal Ministers, State Secretarys and State Secretarys, there will soon be no sufficient government bank! It's also in our government series inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, listen to us! You will have a Déjà-vu: It has already been mentioned how many new members of the government have actually been presented and adopted here in the only two and a half years since the entry into force of this ÖVP coalition with the Greens. That the ÖVP also finds thanks for Elisabeth Köstingerand for Margarete Schramböck is quite understandable. I've only been surprised by the overwhelming of the greens. Is this necessary for maintaining the coalition that the Kotau goes so far toward the partner that even where one could not, where one is secretly glad that the people are no longer there, says how great they were? Is it not perhaps because of a fundamental problem of this coalition? – That in beautiful weather times, two and a half years ago, one said: Let's try – that's nice – combining the best of two worlds – like on a ship where the most important is Captain's dinner and the entertainment of the guests! Only with Corona did this stateship come into such distress that a different job description is necessary as entertainment, and that does not provide this coalition. [[Abg. Hörl: Certainly not a social democratic!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Certainly not a social democratic!]] Maybe it's true what Clubob's wife Sigi Maurer said: We've given the best possible! – Maybe you can’t, and maybe we need to thank those who say: We can't, so we're off board! In this sense: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thanks Elli Köstinger and Margarete Schramböck for the honesty! – Of course, Mr Jergitsch will have a problem with the “day press” because he can no longer bring the beautiful articles about the country of Africa and department store Austria, but we are for honesty – we can’t! – thank you. This honesty is lacking only with the other ladies and gentlemen. Make the way for a government that is also there in the crisis for the people! You've done your best possible. It's not enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Now I'm sure you'll come back. Yes, the matnetter, the red ones are criticizing us again! – Well, maybe today you’ll see the newspaper “The Press” – also not known as the central organ of socialism – and see how colleague Urschitz comments: “We need crisis managers now, not helpless welfare politicians”. He is wondering how in times like this about the question of whether horses should draw fictitious horses, or about the question of whether they can be turned down in red as cyclists, can be discussed instead of addressing the core problems we face as a country – the economy, society and people. He's right! People don't know how to eat the flour as they do the bread, how they pay the gas heating, how they pay the electricity, and you're dealing with these issues and a change of government. That's not possible. That's not even Captain's dinner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take a swim jacket, hop overboard and release the way for a bridge crew that controls the ship after new elections in such a situation! When things come like: I ask you, Federal Minister Kocher: What, you estimate, does it mean at 2 000 euros gross in the month when the 32.5 percent progression decreases to 30 percent? How much does this mean to this person with 2 000 euros gross net more per month? And to supplement: at 3,000 euros? - I don't have an answer yet. The Minister of Finance is also silent. – That's okay, ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you: 3,60 euros – that's not even 2 litres of diesel – it's 2 000 gross, 23,50 euros at 3 000 euros gross. That would be the discharge. This is at the level of these 150 euro vouchers, which you may be able to redeem in a year. – Ladies and gentlemen, that’s not how it is! People need something now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To be honest: Stop feeling well-being politicians! The new – I am glad that they are there, I have also heard the words of the new Federal Minister – is stretched out against the hand, but perhaps we are finally working together. – Stop adjourning or rejecting all the opposition’s requests! Let's try it together! They can't do it on their own – even as much as possible. We could do better, and the best way would be to re-elect.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11746	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11770	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate listeners! Yes, on average this government employs us every three months with a government declaration and a government transformation. [[Abg. Lighten up: both!]] After Sebastian the first Alexander the Second came, and now we have Karl the third. Alexander the Second has already left us, Karl the Third is also gone, and Crown Prince Werner has also followed him. It is remarkable in a statement of government that they are already leaving the plenary room in the middle of the debate. We are in one of the most difficult economic and security situations since the Second World War. The Austrian population would have a right to a stable and secure government. Instead, we have a government that deals exclusively with itself. A German chancellor, a minister, one minister gives the Turkish left to the next. That is the opposite of stability, that is the opposite of security, ladies and gentlemen, and this can be done by this Parliament, this country can no longer do so to our citizens. With regard to the performance of this Federal Government: This question has now been raised by many people in this country. Two thirds of the population conclude that they no longer have confidence in this government. This government is incapable of ruling this country, and is proving it impressive daily. For example, there is a government talk, which means – and that is really a highlight! –: “EBAI” – that is, an expert group is hunting the next – to ‘get a better understanding of [...] potential future price developments’. Now I have to ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs or Minister of Labour: Do you already have any information about price developments? We would be very pleased if you would tell us something about it – and above all what you do about it. The economic competence of this Federal Government is therefore – this has already been summarized today and I would like to repeat it once again –: Store Austria. I think that has shown what the economic competence of this Federal Government is. Who are the losers of this policy, this inflation, this price explosion, this wave of inflation? – It’s the individual people, and it’s especially the ones that have been difficult in this country anyway. They are minimum pensioners, they are single-parents, they are individual entrepreneurs, they are SMEs, but of course also the middle class; those who have built up this social state and prosperity in this country – and this one is being destroyed by this federal government. That is not what people in this country deserve, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who are the profiters of this crisis? – Of course, it is in addition to the multinational corporations, as we all know them – Amazon, Google and so on – as well as our electricity companies. Connected, Kelag make billions of profits with exploding prices, which every household feels, and the shareholders are delighted. The state is also a winner, the finance minister – unfortunately he is already gone – is also one of the great winners of this development. Some others swim in this stream of booze as well. These are again organizations which, of course, are very close to the ÖVP, such as the Chamber of Commerce, because of course, chamber pay 1 depends on turnover tax, chamber tax 2 on payroll tax. Of course, they are happy about the more revenue they can make. That is why, Minister, I will give you a small task. You're always talking about you trying to relieve the economy, as an expert you've called for this very often. So you could relieve the economy accordingly. I put to you a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In summary, you can say: This Federal Government has no immediate action to do so – as Mr Matznetter has already mentioned – nor to oppose structural measures. A coach legend would say: This government has “empty bottle”. – “I’m done.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11945	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Götze. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e11969	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government and also from my side a warm welcome to the new ones on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's already been said: So many spectators here in the room, that's something great again. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] In particular, I would like to address my future counterpart to Mr Kocher. I appreciate your expertise and also thank you for the good cooperation so far. What has not been mentioned, for example: We have just sent the red and white red card in review. I believe that this is really a good draft that the economy and the labour force are waiting for, and I am very confident. But I would like to address one issue – it has already been mentioned –: this combination of the two areas of work and business. I've already got some worried addresses there, and I think that's not quite trivial. That is why I am very glad, Minister, that you yourself have mentioned that you will pay attention to this balance of interests. This is also a very big concern for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, we must not let ourselves be too long with this reform of government. It's good to talk about it. But what people clearly expect is that we get into action quickly – that's why we're in action because we've been in crisis mode for two years now. The multiple crises were addressed, from the pandemic to the inflation in the course of the Russia attack war on Ukraine to supply chain problems, and not least – something that has almost been illuminated today – to the climate crisis. So we have many crises to deal with, and so do we. There has been a great deal of economic aid. Thanks also to the entrepreneurs who have been so committed. Thus, mass unemployment and insolvency could be prevented. In order to break down the costs, we have decided on an anti-price package of 4 billion euros, but now it is very important that we manage to make the companies more crisis-resistant, more resilient. For this, there is a wealth of incentives to free companies from this dependence on oil and gas. In this context, I would also like to address the Climate Change Act, which we are urgently waiting for, and ask all parties involved to give up their blockages, For what is also associated with the climate change package is the Transformation Fund, and the industry is waiting for it very urgently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point, which is important to me personally: The shortage of skilled workers – he has already been addressed – can also be solved by allowing women to exploit their potential in the economy, in the company. That's what we really need to catch up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Last year, as a National Council, we asked the Ministry, Minister Kocher, to study career prospects of women in companies and how to support women. I hope that we can discuss this study very quickly and then come into implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12049	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12070	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! For the first time in a few years now, the competences for work and business are coming together in a ministry, and this offers a number of opportunities that should not be missed. However, for these opportunities to be used, the economist Martin Kocher must prevail against ÖVP Minister Martin Kocher. I think that's gonna be an exciting match. Let me take a look at the chances I see here! Austria is weakening in the international comparison from this pandemic crisis. The gross domestic product is more broken in with us than in other countries and it is slower to recover. So during next year Denmark, Germany and Sweden will already be above the pre-crisis level, Austria will still be below the 2019 level. There's something to do so we can pick up. Now 130 000 open jobs are reported to the AMS. It can be assumed that any second job will be reported there. So there are about 250 000 open jobs in Austria. The economy suffers massively from labour shortages. However, we must not be surprised at the lack of labour. If you ask someone today whether he is working more, working more, taking on a leadership position or overtime, then he will think twice if he has to push half of every additional euro he deserves to the state. So we need a discharge. In addition, the additional wage costs are too high. With the taxes on work, the state makes it unnecessary for companies. Qualified immigration is hindered. It has already been mentioned the red-and-white red card. It still runs through two authorities, always through the AMS and the district administration authority. So these are two authorities for a red-and-white red card for one person. Of course, it's complicated. Before Schramböck did something great: If you do not deal with these two authorities, you can now contact a third metastasis of the federal administration, the Austrian Business Agency ABA, and this third metastasis will help the company deal with the other two authorities. – This is bureaucracy in Austria, so it is in Austria, and then we wonder if no experts come to Austria, which in the meantime has long been Working in Australia, Sweden or Canada, where the procedure does not last 15 weeks. Then there is the fact that we are now extending the short-time work with which we keep 50,000 people in jobs where they are not needed, while there are 250 000 open jobs. This is tax money burning of the very first kindness by this minister. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Out of the labour market, the bureaucracy is also happy to beat the businessmen between their legs. The then head of IHS Kocher meant that one had to reform the trade regulations, it was about deregulation, to facilitate market access and to increase competition. If I read the interviews in the newspapers today, I cannot see that there is a reform of the trade regulations which deserves this name and as they would recommend to us the OECD and the European Commission, but in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Chamber of Commerce has the say, and the Chamber of Commerce is a chamber of industrial prevention: There can only be no new entrepreneur who takes away a business from me! – You must not leave this job to the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then the flexible company is supposed to come, i.e. a new form of company specifically for young entrepreneurs. It's called cool flexible company, but: English contracts? - Boah, I can't do that! All of this has to be done in German, and notarial obligations are also needed because the Notarial Chamber has enforced itself there! – This is not what we understand in modern economies. There would be more. In the Corona crisis, localized trade has lost a lot to online trade. Online trade has always opened, day and night, even on weekends. In the meantime, Austria is turning to where the domestic jobs are, namely in local local trade. Austria has the most restrictive provisions throughout Europe. 23 states in Europe have no limit from Monday to Saturday, 17 do not even have restrictions on Sunday, and even self-service shops in Austria fall victim to the opening law. So there is really much to be done for entrepreneurial freedom, Minister. They have taken over a large department and also the opportunity to bring great reforms to the ground. We're waiting with excitement.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12146	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12184	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at home! First of all, thanks to the divorced Federal Minister Elli Köstinger. We have brought together a lot in recent months and years: the Forest Fund Act, the termination of unfair trade practices, the common agricultural policy. Thank you very much for the eight years in the European Parliament and the five years in the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian Federal Government. Thank you for using over 13 years in total. Thank you very much! Congratulations and thanks to the new Minister of Agriculture Norbert Totschnig. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] Norbert Totschnig, you come from a dairy farm from East Tyrol, and you never forgot your roots. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You bring in a great experience and a network on the political field, the so-called Vienna parquet, – some of them in other political groups – and you are a specialist when it comes to negotiation and parliamentary processes. Thank you for taking responsibility as a Federal Minister for the Austrian farmers during this difficult time. Thank you very much! Karl Nehammer and the new Minister for Agriculture have already mentioned it: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Food security is a command of the hour. There are three issues I would like to address. One is the Green Deal: Yes, we are on the climate targets, yes, we are on the biodiversity targets, but everything with a measure and a goal. What makes no sense is, at a time when hunger in the world threatens to make agriculture with attractive hand brakes. I don't see that, we need to discuss it. When hunger threatens in the world, it makes no sense not to produce on the state of the art. We need to question some strategies, including in Europe. Second point: It needs price adjustments. If the costs on the markets are proven to rise, it will be necessary to allow fairness to operate along the value chain especially in times of crisis. There the partners, up to consumers, are required, so that there are certain adaptation measures when prices at the negotiating table are shown to rise. Third point: Thank you for the preparatory work on extending the previous discharge measures. I would like to recall this because the discussion in the hall already has a certain absurdity. There are 18 million euros of discharge in the field of eco-social tax reform and a total of 4 billion euros of discharge over two discharge packages, and there will be some small additions. We are working there for farmers on an energy cost and cost suspension package. This is a necessity so that we, Austrian agriculture, can continue to be a reliable partner in Austria. That's what we want to be. [[Abg. Smoking:... the new Secretary General in the Federal Farmers' Federation!]] Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister Geessler, you have found it takes a turn of time, and in view of the dependencies, our energy mix needs to go more towards renewable energy. – I can assure you, Georg Strasser, the farmers and Norbert Totschnig, the new Minister of Agriculture, we stand by the foot and will support you. Farm energy author: This requires more speed, increasing the expansion targets in the area of green gas, biogas from residuals, green hydrogen and also wood gas. We can also afford to pursue the development goals with more ambition. In conclusion: We could take an example of the Greens in Germany. Steffi Lemke, the Minister for the Environment, defended on 10 October. May the Planning Accelerating Act. That's really a great vocabulary for yourself. I also wish for Austria that the approval procedures are simply a step faster over the stage, so that projects in the pipeline can eventually also be implemented quickly. The Austrian farmers, Georg Strasser and the new Federal Minister Norbert Totschnig stand at the foot of the rifle. Mrs. Federal Minister, we support you. We need to make good decisions quickly, because time is pressing. Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12239	Next speaker: Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12268	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Seers! I am particularly pleased that there are so many people here again who show interest in parliamentaryism. [[on the visitor gallery]] Mr. Totschnig, you are taking over a place that faces great challenges. In the last 35 years, agriculture has been significantly influenced by ministers of the ÖVP. The result: In the 1970s, 23 percent of the Austrian population were still farmers. Today it's not even 4 percent. The companies are still fighting for survival and see very little future. In your opinion, Chancellor Nehammer said that agriculture is inseparable from climate protection. That's how we see it. Climate protection means species protection, means biodiversity, climate protection means above all, but also sustainable handling of our soils and sustainable management of our soils. For us, social democrats are closely associated with the ban on the total herbicide glyphosate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I do not have to explain to you that the World Health Organization has classified this herbicide as probably carcinogenic. There are sincere parliamentary decisions here in the house that include a glyphosate ban. Mr Minister, put it into practice, other countries are already ahead of you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Her predecessor did not do this, but she exclusively represented the interests of the chemical lobby. An important challenge will also be animal welfare, Minister. According to Health Minister Rauch – and you can then contact him – the ban on full-column floors fails only at the ÖVP. The citizens of this country no longer want this animal husbandry and together we call for a good animal welfare attitude of farm animals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A fair distribution of funding will also be of great importance. The system of land production is outdated and thus contributes a significant part to the industrialization of agriculture in Austria. But this creates structures in which food safety is at long last at risk. In return, let us strengthen the small peasant structure! Let us help farmers at fair prices, at good sales markets, on good products – the consumers in this country will thank you for this. Mr Minister, this week we will decide in Parliament to implement the common agricultural policy, so it will be Green and Turquoise, and you have mentioned the importance of equal opportunities between the country and the city in your speech. However, I can give you the opportunity to decide exactly the opposite tomorrow. I would just like to mention: 77 percent reduction in social services – just in the countryside! That is why we would like to discuss the huge CAP package with you, Mr Minister, the common agricultural policy, once again. Let us work together on innovative conditions for our farmers, let us create perspectives for them, so that the next generations can take this wonderful profession with joy and confidence and exercise it with enthusiasm! Minister! I and my group in particular will measure you by your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12346	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12371	Madam President. Dearly present on the government bank! Dear Seers and Seers! The Minister of Agriculture has resigned – finally. There was another government reform, but it would have been better if you had immediately set the way for new elections and had all resigned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has been achieved in the past? – Minister Köstinger leaves behind a rubble: Many plants stand with their backs to the wall, each second thinks of stopping. Rare: Farms are becoming less and less, officials in the administration, in the ministries, at the AMA and in the chamber are becoming more and more. The bureaucracy is growing. The conditions and guidelines for animal protection and also for plant protection will be changed overnight, and will pay it to the farmer – it is a shame. Your policy is a shame! If you are outside with the farmers, farmers and farmers of farms that have been run over generations and who have been able to live by hard work, you can hear: A few years – a few years! – I have to do it, then I can finally retire! – Court successors are usually not present. That's no wonder either: 365 days to work on the hunger wage! Work is only funny when it comes in, but agricultural producer prices have not been inflation-adjusted since the 1970s. Funding and post-EU compensatory payments are becoming less and less dependent on more and more requirements and directives. The ÖVP has managed to downgrade the diligent, honest, proud peasant stand to the bitter and alms recipient, and at the same time pushed him to the edge of society. Everything new makes May: A new minister will now judge it – a Tyrolean who has been living in Vienna for 20 years, an ÖVP apparathik who has zero knowledge of the practice. [[Inter-calls by Mr Hörl and Mr Ofenauer.]] Then so-called experts will be needed again, care posts for the black family. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Who writes such a nonsense for you?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You can really talk about the last offer of the ÖVP, about the last offer of the ÖVP farmers' association. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: The last offer of the FPÖ!]] Minister! In recent months, we have had to note that self-sufficiency is not sufficient for many agricultural products in Austria. The surplus lie is becoming more and more obvious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] For many agricultural products we depend on imports. Many lip confessions highlighted the importance of farmers, but did not act. It is always claimed how important self-sufficiency would be, but at the same time the farmers are being thrown where they are going. Mr Minister, instead of showing policy and staging – as your predecessor has done – it finally needs relief and solutions for agriculture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you one thing: There is no time for you, because the farmers finally need solutions, the farmers finally need change. Soon the farm stand can no longer afford production, electricity and diesel prices are at record level. The farmers finally need income. Of course, security of supply is also an important issue. For the designation of origin, you can only say: This solution, presented by Mrs Köstinger, is half a solution, and half things do not help anyone else. The topic of Alm and Wolf is an important topic for Austria, an important topic for our farmers – I hope that there will finally be solutions in your speech She does not mention it – as does the Biograin Regulation. These are just some of the problems that farmers are pressing, and problems need solutions. The figures in agriculture are terrifying, that is the best proof of your missing agricultural policy, of the missing agricultural policy of the EIAP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need a clear reorientation, a roadmap, as the Austrian agriculture should continue. Finally, there is a need for a policy with a sense of the house. Best of all, you'll step back and clear the way for new elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12489	Next speaker: Mr Clemens Stammler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12513	Mrs. Minister! Thank you. [[Abg. Lightness: President in!]] Madam President. Estimated ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners, students and students at the gallery! Explain You can get people out there on full supermarket shelves a bit of food sovereignty and self-sufficiency! I haven't been able to do this for ten years, but now, accompanied by pandemic, Ukraine war and, above all, climate crisis, this is slow. In a rich Western country like Austria, we do not have a supply crisis in the sense, we may have a strain on the shelf and that is difficult enough, but hunger is elsewhere in the world. In this way, we slowly recognize our dependence, including the dependence of our agriculture. We depend on supply chains, on global cereals markets, on countries whose energy I do not want. Russian gas is energy, I would almost say criminal energy. When I listen outside so much and try to absorb the mood of people, I feel a certain powerlessness – no wonder in all the crises. It must be our task to make this powerless power, which comes from the many parameters that one does not have in hand, an effective force, and I believe that this government has already done a lot about it. A climate ticket gives action power: I can drive low-cost public. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A photovoltaic offensive gives effect: The roofs begin to shimmer slowly. But agriculture also needs this effect. We need regionalization, independent supply chains, Russian gas from which we produce fertilizers, and above all we need the right and the opportunity to present our activities as farmers. Therefore, the designation of origin must also take the second step and work in the gastronomy, on the menu. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It cannot be that wheat, cereals, is traded on a stock exchange so that the producer has nothing at all at all at the beginning and at the end of the chain there are people who cannot afford this grain, and in between there are a few artists in this world who do not have to invest in the field without actually making money. I believe that, and I would also ask the new Minister of State: We are working for the regional, for the resilient cycles, lobby in Brussels for the farmers and do not listen to the lobbyists who are now trying in the wind shadow of all these crises to continue to undermine both Farm to Fork and Green Deal in order to reap profits! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger resigned with the words that she had achieved her political goals. Mr Totschnig, I have not achieved my political objectives, I assume you have not yet done so with your fishing observation. Let's keep working! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12569	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12590	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! I would like to congratulate you on your appointment, Mr Minister of Agriculture, in advance. I am glad that you made it here today, it wasn't quite free of frustration – so congratulations from my side. You take on a very, very important place. Agriculture – and this must be noted as my previous speakers have said – is happening in Austria at the moment, and the agricultural policy that your predecessor left behind is simply a big mess. Let me just mention a few facts, otherwise this is as if we were just criticizing. The fact is that farmers' incomes in Austria are the lowest in all Western Europe. The farmer's death is dramatic. The farms hang on the pot, and innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture are really inhibited by the bureaucracy and indeed suffocated in the germ. Innovation, digitalization, automation? - Agriculture is a follow-up! Out of fossil energy in agriculture? – Also a follower! The national implementation of the common agricultural policy is really nothing that this Federal Government can be proud of. The European Commission has rightly strongly criticised what has happened here. The major challenges of climate change and biodiversity? – That was at best uninspired and lustless what happened in the past. That the forestry continues to have problems, although the prices of wood are good at the moment, this is also a fact and will continue in the next few years. But what is worst from my point of view, and that is what I have always criticized here in this House, is that your predecessor – either because she did not want or perhaps because she could not – has failed to develop a strategy and to tell farmers and farmers of which she can live in five, in ten, in 15 or in 20 years. That's necessary. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The agricultural policy of recent years, if you look at it, was such a little head-in-the-sand sticks, one could call it bird-strout policy: In Austria everything is great, we don't have to do anything, we're so great anyway! That's what you heard. – A completely naïve approach in the hope: We live on our little island, and what's happening around it is none of our business! Other countries have shown: It's okay! - Of course it's okay. And now I'm not saying we should copy the Dutch model. Also there is not all gold that shines, but at least the Dutch have managed to show a strategy where they want to go in agriculture. That is why they are now an agricultural world power in terms of export, technology and know-how. [[Abg. And how much organic? How much bio share?]] – This is something you can look at, colleague Strasser! I didn't say that this must be the Austrian way, but what they did is: They have considered something, and this has not happened in Austrian politics and on the part of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you can now do it like your predecessor and say: Everything great in Austria, we don't have to do anything here anyway, everything works! We do not need structural reforms; we really do not need them. Current problems? – We will be able to provide funding, we will be putting up a pot somewhere that the Federal Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, will have to deliver! Or: Keep the farmers dependent, even this has worked quite well in recent times. You can do that. My However, it would be desirable that you go here now as a Minister of Agriculture and really make Austrian agriculture active. What do I mean by that? . I mean, the most important task you have here and now is to say what the vision is. Where does the path lead in Austrian agriculture? What are the farmers to live in five, in ten, in 15 years, in 20 years? Clearing this is your most important task. One thing I can guarantee you: If you trust, the dusty agricultural policy of recent years into the 21st century. Getting the century, and I really hope you're brave enough to do that, then you can count on my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12652	The Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are now speaking. It is agreed that they should not exceed their speaking time of 4 minutes. The first is Mrs. Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12680	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of today's National Council meeting! I think it is very essential that the young people in Austria have a strong voice after these two inconceivably long years of the pandemic, a strong representation in the middle of the federal government. In recent months we have already succeeded a lot: We have put in place a package of 13 million euros for the mental health of young people, and we have also managed, for example, to introduce a procurement principle for brokers' fees. I would like to thank our Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer for the progress made so far, but above all I would like to thank him for bringing me back to the confidence of putting youth policy at the centre of the Federal Government and making it even stronger in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Government reform is in the process of youth policy, which is part of it. Civil servants are not only a very essential factor in the social field, but also the logical young people, whether they are mainly or voluntarily, when it comes to blue light organisations and the employees involved. Civil service is, if you want to, the head of the social sector, and that is extremely valuable. I am also looking forward to further and closer cooperation with our Minister for Defence Claudia Tanner, for military and civil service are going hand in hand and need to be developed together. Young people, especially young boys, often find themselves in honor only through the voluntary social year or through civil service. The agents of the Honorary Office, which I may take over from Minister Köstinger, also reflect a very important part of my own life. I grew up with the honorary office in many clubs, so it's probably going to happen to many here. Almost half of all Austrians are involved in leisure activities in one or more associations, and informal volunteering is done for the society. Honourableness is a matter of honor, without which our country would simply not function, from the integration of the fire brigades to the voluntary fire brigades. In the future, for example, a path from the Office can also lead directly to the teaching of care and thus into a successful professional future. A few days ago, the new care package was presented. This is a great step especially for young people who also bring the necessary empathy and are willing to take responsibility in health professions. We are also creating the gap between the ages of 15 and 17 by finally rolling out the care teaching throughout Austria. The care teaching itself and the entire range of teaching professions combine theory and practice and prepare young people for their future in the best possible way. The dual training is internationally recognized and appreciated and a real Austrian export hit. The agendas for the teaching have so far been divided between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I will put the brackets between these two departments in the future, because we need the best minds in the teaching and we have the best minds in the teaching. Many international professional championships also show whether these are the worldskills, whether they are the Euroskills, from where our young talents from Austria take almost more medals home than our athletes at the Winter Olympics. The teaching must not be Plan B, if it is not so with the school, but must be quite clear of Plan A. That is why we need to work on the image of teaching, but not only with the students, but above all with the parents. The teaching has long been no longer a dead end, but now a career car. It is therefore all the more important that we continue and implement the path of permeability that has begun in the education system consistently and rapidly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the subject of dual training last week I was also in Switzerland, and I have to say that they are ahead of us there for miles: 70 percent of young people in Switzerland opt for a training course. This also depends, among other things, on the possibility of higher vocational training, which we are now setting in motion in Austria. So I will also be a loud ambassador for the success model teaching in the Federal Government. The world lives on people who do more than just their duty, and that was especially true of young people in recent months. This concerns everyone. Young people who, out of a sense of responsibility and out of solidarity, have renounced part of their youth. This concerns every apprentice who has deliberately decided to learn a craft from zero to become master of his or her subject, and that concerns every sports club, every - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12740	Mrs. State Secretary, 4 minutes had been agreed. You've been over 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12755	This concerns countless associations in our country and many civilian servants who do incredible things that are no longer to be thought away, and I am pleased to continue to be a strong voice in the Federal Government for the concerns of these young people and to continue to make pace for these young people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12783	Mrs. Susanne Kraus-Winkler is now speaking. – Mrs State Secretary, I will also set the speaking time at the Pult for your orientation.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12804	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear spectators, but ladies and gentlemen in particular! I should like to thank you very much again very briefly at the beginning. She has done a lot for tourism in an extremely difficult time. This was certainly one of the biggest challenges we have had to face in recent times. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My passion for tourism goes through my entire career. I grew up in tourism and, as a family-owned employee, I already met the industry very early, and later, as an entrepreneur, I have to face challenges all my life. I therefore also know very well what obstacles the pandemic has brought to our businesses, and as an industry spokesperson at national, federal and EU level, I have experienced how important and necessary a constructive co-operation is across industry borders, but there and there, too, across party borders. Only together will we be able to master the further challenges in tourism, because we all know – and we have heard it today – that we have not yet survived everything. I am therefore particularly grateful for the opportunity to bring my many years of experience to this place. The key challenges for the local tourism market have not changed since the last week, they are also very well known to me, and I also know, above all, that problem solutions are not easy to find. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I am very confident and I also see an advantage in helping with and solving the many challenges for the labour market, especially for the tourist labour market, in the future in the common ministry, where the skills for business, labour and tourism have been gathered, because in the labour market we will have to make every effort to tackle the shortage of employees in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Only healthy economic growth ultimately ensures our prosperity, especially in regions where tourism is often the only opportunity for many It is. At present, as you all know, in the local tourism sector, especially now before the summer season, relatively many workers and professionals are still missing. The improvement in the red-and-white red card and the expansion of the regular-seasonal kidney scheme are the first important steps that will lead to and will lead to noticeable discharges. However, it certainly also needs more programmes, and I know that Federal Minister Kocher, together with experts for 2023, is planning a comprehensive labour market reform with the aim of bringing as many people into employment as possible, bringing back the migrant workers and winning new ones. I will try to bring in my expertise for the tourist labour market as much as possible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Ukraine War is, of course, a humanitarian disaster with economic consequences, which are de facto not foreseeable for our industry. Even though the booking situation has so far hardly been affected by inflation and price increases, businesses are suffering very much, and this will have an impact on many areas. We are therefore aware of the urgent need for appropriate reliefs that we need to work on. The good news is that we see an upward movement in the city tourism in the booking situation and that despite Ukraine's crisis, the great storm waves have been avoided to date, if you look away from the fact that some long-distance markets are not yet open, such as China. Nevertheless, there is increased demand, but the figures do not rise fast enough. Why? – Of course, the war causes uncertainty among our long-distance travelers. We have the huge problem with the flight, take-off and landing bans. Eastern European markets, which are bordering directly on Ukraine, are most affected and all of this affects tourism and our demand. For these reasons, I would like to repeat here once again that urban tourism must continue to have top priority. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] A strong sign was also the Austrian tourism days that I was allowed to open two days ago, and also the case of the 3G rule on Monday. I think we must continue to put all the levers on the move so that the recovery of Austrian tourism remains the top priority. The view of the summer is promising. We assume that we will have relatively little impact on travel behaviour and booking situation. We know from studies that 70 percent of respondents are planning a summer holiday - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12876	Mrs State Secretary, may I remind you of the speaking time agreement. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12892	Of course, it is still so that we do not know to what extent inflation and all these things will be the upward trend, but there we are not alone in Europe. Finally, I can assure you that I have always worked with heart blood and passion for tourism and will continue to do so. In my capacity as Secretary of State, I will do everything I can to bring in this expertise. I can also say: I hope that we can work together with all the political groups. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12922	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). There are also 4 minutes of speaking time agreed with you again. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e12948	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear spectators, this time again on the gallery and in front of the screens! We all probably have forgotten a lot of this pandemic in the last two years. When we look back on the last two years with their incredible crisis situations, we sometimes forget that our lives have completely changed in these two years. To avoid physical contact with each other, we have set on digital contacts. Digital developments, which we have seen in politics only in a few years, have suddenly been implemented from today to tomorrow. Let's just think about it: To order digital food became normal, as did home schooling, telework or telemedicine. We are all glad that we now have this time behind us, but we have seen what is possible if we have to, if we want, and what possibilities are in it. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I can thank Chancellor Karl Nehammer for his trust. For the first time, this government reform has pooled digitisation in the Ministry of Finance, because we have been shown in recent years that we urgently need to set accents. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] My second thanks goes to Finance Minister Magnus Brunner, whom I know long and well, for the warm welcome in his house. I am looking forward to the joint cooperation. Thirdly, I can thank Margarete Schramböck and Elli Köstinger for the well-run sections I can take over soon. As you know, I may be responsible for digitization in the Federal Government in the future – an absolute topic of the future. Much has already been done by the federal government, the countries and the municipalities, but it is in the nature of the matter that there is always a better one, a higher one and a faster one. This constant challenge excites me. To say something personal: Some of you know I'm an enthusiastic mountaineer and ski tourer. When you go up to a mountain and stand at the top, you can see that you still have an incredible number of peaks ahead of you. I would like to take this appeal to my new office. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] An example: The management is becoming more digital, from services such as financial online and the digital office to the future driving licence on the smartphone. One thing is clear: The digital transformation is the future and is crucial for our location. We must not let it down and we must start further projects. The transformation brings the necessary impetus for growth and prosperity in our country and throughout Europe. In my role as Secretary of State, I am just responsible for this digital transformation of Austria. It is important to me in this task to make digitisation tangible to everyone, because the best technological innovation does not matter if it does not reach the population and we do not explain it. Therefore, the digital know-how of all Austrians, from student to senior, is especially dear to me. The infrastructure: As a Federal Government, we have set ourselves the goal of making Austria a leading digital nation. For this we need a good infrastructure, whether professional or private, whether in the Paznauntal or in Vienna. Our ambitious goal is to supply Austria with fixed and mobile gigabits throughout the world by 2030. Every euro we invest in digital infrastructure today is a Investment in our future, in our quality of life and, of course, in a competitive advantage. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am already at the end of my remarks. I invite you all to accompany me in the coming years on this trip through our digital Austria, and I am very pleased to be working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13028	Next speaker is Dr.a. Petra Oberrauner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13052	Mr President. Estimated government members! Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery and appreciated spectators at home! As a digital speaker, I would of course like to take a position on the changes and new orders of the agendas presented by the Federal Chancellor in his speech. I really want to say that you have rightly said that you have not made it easy, but I have to say: neither of us. All the suggestions for improvement that we have come from have simply been shubbled. Digitalization is a cross-sectional matter, is a topic of the future, is essential for the economic location, makes more for climate protection and green politics than anything else – and has actually become a sub-division of the Ministry of Finance. I do not understand why the government does not have so much competence to give this issue its own ministry. This would be useful, urgently necessary and would also have contributed to Austria's economic location, which is not as good in the international environment as you tell us – the investments will be held back because Austria is no longer a safe location. We now have the digitalization environment, we have really failed for two and a half years, because broadband and digitalization were not in a place. They cannot communicate with each other, but have to do with each other. That would be like someone building trains and belonging to the tracks of someone else who doesn't talk to each other and then we have the wrong wheels. Unfortunately, we did not get to the point of setting up good projects – for example Kaufhaus Austria. I really ask the new Secretary of State to consider the ID Austria because the people who already have the mobile signature – more than three million people – have an analogy problem in this process. All those who have not notified the signature to the authority, but to private providers, now have to commute to the authority, go to get a digital permit. This cannot really be our access to digitalisation in Austria. Please consider this project urgently and take the wrong decisions back! The second important point in this context is that the public sector, of course, also needs to be digitised. It's very important to see what's happening to us now with the gas: We cannot leave critical infrastructures that need to be protected to one or more international corporations. We need sovereignty and we need autonomy in digitalization. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What the war shows us: We also urgently need resistance, because if weapons are no longer involved, then cyber-attacks are happening – and that is not possible. We have to prepare, Austria has an obligation. In the field of education, which is also part of digitalization, I would urge the Secretary of State to think about whether to introduce the children from the first day to Microsoft and thus create future customers to a group, or whether to make them active users and work with Open Source, so that they also know which tools they can use for themselves in digitization. If you don't do that, it's a disadvantage until the last day in the world of work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I would also like to say: It's really important to have a contact with the Ministry of Finance. I accept from the Minister of Finance and have also seen that he can properly evaluate figures. But the question is: What is the redistribution? – I would like to say something: For the first time in history after EU entry, they have the opportunity to include EU rules and to relieve people. I wonder what you, if you take 16 billion euros, will prevent people from making life so easier that they can buy something else. So you won't have a return of investment! What you don't admit to people now, you won't have. The problem that people have today – that they can no longer afford life – will have you in the budget because you can't spend anything more. It is probably more sensible to give people a bill now and then refinancing it through taxes. For example, the SPÖ policy under Bruno Kreisky has already known. But you have always tried the past only for other topics – you should look at what we have done well.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13115	Mag.a. Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13137	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister and Minister of State! Dear High House! Dear Seers! I would like to congratulate the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany very warmly on the restructuring of the Minister and the State Secretary landscape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has thus set a clear, forward-looking sign in a very short time. Work and economics are one thing we see in times like this. Without qualified professionals and without a strong teaching, the economy is not viable, and with Martin Kocher he has found a proven expert and converter for this resort. My thanks and my congratulations! But I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Margarete Schramböck. As Minister for Economic and Digitalization, she has put important emphasis on digitization, on the one hand in the administration, and also on the introduction of the once-only principle in reducing bureaucracy for companies. But above all it was a strong voice of the economy, and for that I would like to thank her and wish her all the best. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a digital speaker, however, I am particularly pleased that, although digitalization is a cross-sectional matter, we continue to have our own state secretariat, which will add the digital infrastructure to it, because that needs to be done in order to make politics out of a cast. The fact that the whole thing is still in place in the Ministry of Finance is, I say, not so bad, because there is a short line to the necessary budget, and we will need it for digitization – for the digitization of administration, for infrastructure, for research, but also for the construction of a strong, digital, forward-looking economy. Only this ensures our prosperity. I'm convinced we got a driver with Florian Tursky. Florian Tursky has hand-beat quality, he is ambitious in performance, he is resistant and he is target-oriented. All these are the characteristics you need in politics to show, especially in the field of digitization, that you can use all of this as an opportunity. The fact that he has also taken a leading role in the digitalization offensive of the state of Tyrol and has established a start-up also rounds out his profile for this area, I believe, very well. [[Abg. Kickl: That's it again...!]] We will also need a strong head there, because there are tasks and challenges ahead of us. In the field of administration, it is said to further digitize and continuously, and our goal must be to further reduce bureaucracy for citizens as well as for the economy. Digitalisation has taken place in all areas of life: health, energy, education and mobility. I believe it is our task to show people, the population what opportunities there are in digitization or the achievement of digitalization skills, namely, that it is easier to recognize cancer in terms of health, and not that one can screen through and through people and pass on the data. There are still two other challenges: on the one hand, the increased training of digital professionals – that will be a key factor for this location; I know that the Secretary of State is already in contact with the Minister of Education, my warm thanks for that – and lastly the research. Austria is a research country. It will be essential that Austria, on the one hand, but also in the digitisation of the processes, which will, in future, become a pioneer or, above all, will remain, and that we will not import and consume even more digital technologies in the future, but rather produce and export them. – Mr State Secretary, I am looking forward to a good cooperation. I wish you a lot of pleasure in the task, much success and perhaps a little bit the happiness of the discipline! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13185	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Hauser. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13210	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Always the same acting: Today we have heard again the speeches about the bubble that the system parties and the government parties have been producing for over two years. You represent the situation from your point of view, but you are responsible for this situation, for inflation and also for the problems of the economy, for the working world. That's what you've done in the last two years with your policy, and I'm telling you why. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have taken with me the economic report of the Chamber of Commerce of Tyrol, of course not a liberal body, dated February 2022, in which the Ukraine War is already celebrated. [[keeping a copy of the report entitled ‘TOP TIROL Business Barometer’ in height]] Especially on Franz Hörl You should know this economic barometer, because the Chamber of Commerce of Tyrol – you are the Federal Republic of Germany – has issued it. I should like to say once again that the Russian war is responsible for the current high level of inflation. I quote from this report a sentence, and this is correct: “The high energy and raw materials prices already increased before the escalation of the Russia/Ukraine conflict have led to a further price dynamics.” – This is correctly established. The policy you have made over the past few years is therefore responsible for the rising prices and also for the impoverishment of large parts of the population, because you are taking the completely wrong measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] And, Mrs. State Secretary, what is the situation assessment of the top tourism companies in Tyrol for the coming summer? [[towards State Secretary Kraus-Winkler]] – Throwing Please take a look at this economic barometer! You just found that the outlook for the summer was promising. Yeah, that's your bubble. Talk to the companies! I quote from this economic barometer, and I'll just show you a showboard showing how the top Tyrolean companies – the accommodation companies, the hotels – estimate the situation for the coming summer: [[a table entitled “Economic situation of farms Summer 2022” and placing a column diagram on the speaker’s desk]] 42 percent of Tyrolean top companies surveyed have a negative expectation for the coming summer, only 3 percent positive. – Mrs. State Secretary, you have just claimed the opposite – so: Your bubble where you are! Get out of this bubble! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weidinger and Mr Salzmann.]] Talk to entrepreneurs, and above all break your mind about whether they can continue to be responsible for sending our businesses to a permanent lockdown! With this permanent lockdown, you have caused the problems of the tourism industry. [[Abg. Weidinger: Unheard of!]] I don't get tired to point to the comparison of Austria with Switzerland the same virus, but Switzerland is much better – much better! – passed through Corona. [[another table with the title “Austria – Switzerland in the compare list 2020 2021” and a column diagram pointing to the speaker’s desk]] [[New call of the abg. Salzmann.]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] Look You're looking at these nocturnal statistics! You, tell the government, we've got two of them. November 2020 by the end of May 2021 sent to a permanent lockdown, with disastrous effects a downfall of 95 percent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann]] [[pointing to the column diagram]] Tourism has been enough because you have locked up tourism. It wasn't God-given. [[==References====External links== Salzmann.]] How does it look in Switzerland? – In the same period of time, Switzerland had a reduction of between 20 and 35 percent with the same virus. At last come to yourself and admit that you have caused the situation of the economy and the tourism industry, not the virus! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Salzmann: Come to the facts that really vote!]] You're the problem, you were the problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] And why are you the problem? Inflation: Why are you the problem? – They have locked up businesses, they have been locked up around the world. [[Abg. Weidinger: Austria has...!]] [[Abg. Salzmann: We have the best support measures available throughout Europe, Hauser! You know that very well!]] By the way: Africa does not have the problem. Sweden, for example, had no lockdown. Look at other countries! Through your lock-up policy, through global security policy – including in Europe – by ruining supply chains, you have consistently had to cause these companies to be compensated for the need to bathe out this economic disaster. Do you know how you did that? – You threw on the music press! You threw the printer press, even though it's forbidden. Look They have the balance sheet of the European Central Bank within the last two years [[a panel on which a line chart is depicted, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] Blow up the balance sheet volume of the European Central Bank by 4.5 trillion euros – in two years! – and this is the reason for inflation! You have flooded the markets with money and, through your policy, expropriated the broad mass. You expropriated the savers. In Austria alone, the savers who have money on the savings book have lost 8.5 billion euros in construction savings contracts. And who won? – the State and large enterprises that finance their budgets through bonds; Loans purchased by the European Central Bank. Meanwhile, the ECB is the largest Bad Bank in Europe at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This policy, this irrational policy, is due to the fact that we now have inflation to this unimaginable extent, and is responsible for the fact that large population no longer know how to deal with their incomes. Make So you are urgent this turnaround or step back! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13380	May. Markus Kozaist of the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13404	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Councilplenum! Dear Seers! As the working and social spokesperson of the Greens, I have of course followed the Government Declaration with great attention today. In the context of government conversion, the economic sector has migrated to the workplace or the two have been merged. Mr Minister, you will not be surprised that there is a certain scepticism for the Greens, too, as far as this merger is concerned, even though I was very pleased to note that you said you were trying to resolve this contradiction as well as that you also stressed the opportunities of this merger in a ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] In fact, of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Labour have two different functions in a social democracy, in a democracy itself. We can remember that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has repeatedly been concerned with securing the economic location, taking measures to attract companies to support innovation and the performance of the economy. In the field of the Ministry of Labour, of course, it is very much about securing labour rights, workers' rights, the working constitution, labour market policy. It is already true that very often economic interests and employee interests are in a certain contradiction with each other. There is also a lot of discussions, and social policy achievements, labour-related achievements are often seen as an obstacle to a prosperous economy. Mr. Minister, it will be up to you to convince the skeptics that their fears and concerns are unfounded. In fact, it is also the same way: In Europe we see the particularly powerful economies, the particularly innovative economies, particularly competitive economies, note that these are in particular those economies that have particularly well-developed social systems with strong workers' rights, with strong co-determination and also with a well-developed social partnership. That actually means: If the employees are fine, the economy is also fine. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Minister, in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, we have actually decided on very large labour market packages of 1.5 billion euros: Labour market packages, which have gone into education, qualification, better social security, in future occupations, including the work foundation, into a new environmental work foundation, which we have now decided on. This was a forward-looking labour market policy, which together with the economy has ensured that we currently have the lowest unemployment for 14 years – something that we can build on very well. I would also say: Let us take this along, let us continue this path in the future, because the challenges are enormous – we know! We do not know how the economic situation will develop in the face of war, inflation, inflation, but also the climate crisis in the coming months. It will be one of the central tasks of this ministry to make this transformation, this ecological transformation process for businesses, for the industries and for the workers concerned socially fair, because no one is allowed to be left behind. We can do this, we have the opportunity to do so – we also use it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13459	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13480	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall, numerous also here on the gallery or at home! Dear Members of the Federal Government, especially a warm welcome to those who are sitting on the government bank for the first time today! The topic of digitalization is one that has been very intensive and very often occupied by this Parliament in recent years. I believe that the goal for many here would have been – or is it still – to be able to image, as it were, 99 percent of the government's government channels digitally and to make real use of it, whether it is now choosing to apply for certain forms, to apply for a passport or to be tax matters. Whatever the authorities, all of that would have been the goal. If we look at this today, we see that we simply cannot fulfil it and that there is exactly one country that can fulfill it, namely Estonia, which is often referred to as a model in this regard. I find this very embarrassing for us as a country, for us as a republic, but also for the work of the Federal Government in recent years, that we are so far behind. If you look at what has been implemented, you see that little has come, then you see, especially when you look at the headlines, that these have been negative or very nothing and have also shown how bad we are. One of the last headlines about Mrs. Schramböck was: The Minister for Digitalization prints the Internet. – She had a large panel with a website on it that was really printed, in her hand. It's not about the staging per se, that's to say, That the Federal Minister must not now present any websites or similar – you can also discuss how they are financed and so on; all other topics – but it shows a fundamental misunderstanding about how digital things work in this country. Unfortunately, this goes up to the top, also to the former Federal Minister. We've seen that very little happened either. This announcement government – this government has generally left a wide range of announcements and implemented very little – has announced a package of founders, which is intended to support, in particular, young start-ups that are very often active in the digital environment. – Of course, this package is not available. We have experienced the Ministry of Digitalization of the department store Austria – much quoted, I don't want to say much about it at all. But this too shows a completely wrong approach, which we often choose, namely to believe, to have to remodel things. - No, it won't work. No one can reconstruct Amazon in Austria, that doesn't work, the market power is far too big. What we need to do much more is to invest now where the future projects are, for example, in artificial intelligence. There are also good approaches in Austria, but unfortunately far too little is being done in this regard. That is embarrassing, I believe, for us, but in particular a huge disadvantage for one thing, namely for our economic location. Digitalisation, digital sovereignty in Austria, in Europe, is the only way we can have a strong Europe in the long term and how we can have prosperity in Europe and thus also in Austria. Accordingly, it would be time to develop and move forward as truly courageous visions. One of the most important things, however, and that is why I have the government's projects addressed by the Federal Minister Schramböck earlier to take the population with me. Estonia – I started with it –: The Prime Minister Kaja Kallas once said that the most important thing is to take away the population and make use of it as much as possible. - We didn't do these two things. We do not take the population with us if we simply do show projects that are not feasible then that do not work – department store Austria, printing the Internet, that is, any websites – and in particular we do not take the population with us if we do not vote the processes in a user-friendly manner. That's exactly what we see in all these things – digital office and so on, these are extremely difficult processes that are often not individually and well visible. In Estonia, trust in digitalization is on average 90 percent all the time. This works precisely because you take the population with you, because you really have people on board. This is the task you have, Mr State Secretary. I wish you all the best. We are always willing to support you to work with you, because we are truly convinced that digitalization is the topic that can protect and strengthen the location of Austria, the site of Europe in the long term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13531	Mr Lukas Brandweiner. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13556	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Advisors And watchers in the gallery and in the house in front of the screens. I would like to congratulate our Federal Chancellor, Karl Nehammer, very warmly on the good staff decisions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the People's Party: We have a lot of good people and, if two ministers so to speak, we can re-occupy really good people – and I would like to congratulate them. [[Intervoke by Mr Zanger and Mr Loacker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I already understand the roaring opposition, where the staff cover would be a little thinner, but I'll tell you something: No one is irreplaceable, and this is our strong sign: that we always get good people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller]] And now is not the time to choose for the plot that the opposition has been playing for longer, now is time to work, and I really congratulate the Federal Government on being able to work again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a civil servant of the People's Party, I would of course like to thank the divorced Minister, Elisabeth Köstinger, very much. At the beginning of our period, we would probably not have thought that such great challenges would come to us. I can remind you: For the first time in the Second Republic, it has become necessary to call out the extraordinary civil service – that was certainly not an easy decision – but I am pleased that at the end of its term of office we were able to implement a great project for the civilians in Austria, namely the climate ticket for the civilians, which it has since 1. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I thank the coalition partner, including David Stögmüller, my counterpart there, and Elisabeth Köstinger for being able to implement this great project. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Zorba.]] Now to the current staff: Mrs. State Secretary, dear Claudia! I am very pleased personally that you have taken over the agendas of civil service; I think these are very well suited to the youth agendas. We have already had a first work interview, and I am convinced that we will certainly work together well. We both believe that civil service is essential and that the young men there are really doing a great service to society. Of course, there is a lot to do. I recall the partiality that has only been implemented: It must be evaluated to make the whole thing even more attractive and to further develop civil service. For this I wish you all the best personally and, as I said, I am looking forward to cooperation. As a Waldviertler, I would like to point out the following at the end of my speech: The Waldviertel is currently in Vienna for three days, at the Rathausplatz. Now I already know that we have a long session day today and probably tomorrow too, but maybe it's going to go after it or then on Friday to look straight over to the town hall square to the forest district. Convince yourself of the offer of delicacies! Perhaps one even makes a holiday in the forest district – I would be very pleased. Like you said, dear Claudia, good for the civilian servants!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13655	Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13676	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate government members and visitors! I think we can now say: Every day, the Murmeltier greets! All the declarations of government that have taken place here in the last two years can no longer be counted on both hands. I find it really unbearable! The government tumbles from declaration on coalition to change ministers, change of state secretariats, change of responsibilities. What you are doing with democracy is no longer portable! We need new elections! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Above all, it is not just the x-te declaration of government that really symbolizes this state. It's your handling of reviews, it's your dealing with investigation committees, it's unfortunately your dealings as a government, as a coalition overall, and that's really unbearable. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Can you even talk without hysteria?]] - No, it's not hysteria! – It’s not hysteria, it’s really the fear of democracy that will destroy you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, sure! That's a hysterical way of speaking!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Hysterical!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Hey!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13785	Ladies and gentlemen, for the ‘Hysterical’ call, I give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13821	Thank you. – Once again the concept of democracy of the ÖVP is noticed that these concerns are swept away with the classification hysteria. It's really just unbearable. But now to change in the State Secretariat: The fact that the civil service matters are being integrated there basically sounds plausible, but the achievements of the State Secretariat, unfortunately, one must also clarify this label gap: The package for mental health has been announced last summer, at that time by Minister Mückstein. So that was all under the roof and the subject before the State Secretariat was even distributed. We've been talking about the blood ban on homosexual men for two years, but they still can't donate blood, so listen. Once you've got this label flaw! In this House, promises have been broken, which is not only shown by these two examples, but this list could be continued. The list of open to-dos is long: We still have no valorized federal youth promotion, and that has been happening for 20 years, and the children's and youth organizations have been exaggerating not only for two years, although they do great things and are really the voice of the children and young people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This inflation adjustment, which we have discussed several times, would be the minimum, but we still exclude incredibly many young people from this country. The election with 16 in Austria was an achievement, a milestone, something incredibly great, but that the ÖVP interprets changes to the Citizenship Act as a “depreciation” also shows your democratic understanding in this country. It is embarrassing that you want to exclude so many young people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing has to be clear when we talk about youth and civil service: We have a gap, which can no longer be counted for civil service under the European Solidarity Corps. This gap must be closed. Young men go abroad, experience incredible things there, do great work. Let us fix this gap, and let us speed it up, especially if both have now been summarized in a State Secretariat! Mrs. State Secretary, dear Claudia! You're just coming from Iceland, really a best-practice country in many areas, and you, as a youth secretary, also often describe yourself as a pacemaker. We want this to happen not only in youth policy, it is much more comprehensive to see: also in society and in equality policy, because Iceland is also a pioneer there, because there is no uneven payment for equivalent work and there women and men divide equal pay. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This would also be an important point for youth policy, for modern equality policy, and we would expect this from a youth state secretary as a claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13879	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13904	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! Dear Secretary of State, Dear Susanne, I too can congratulate you on your new role. The tasks in tourism are large and varied, as we have heard. We now have two years of crisis behind us and we are still living in troubled times because of the Ukraine crisis, but also because of the climate crisis, which will hit tourism disproportionately. As far as winter tourism is concerned, we know that we are forced to change whether we like it or not and whether we believe in it or not. Just a few days ago, we received the warning message that glaciers melt faster than thought; it may also be that we are still experiencing this summer that the glacier tongue of the pasterze will break off at the Großglockner and disappear within the next 20 years. [[Abg. The summer!]] We also know that with the current snow-making technology we can still compensate for the progressive warming – of course under considerable extra effort, which makes the whole of course very expensive – but only by 2050. Then it's over. And while one still dreams unrealisticly of a glacier, where behind it only conceals itself that ski resorts join together and enlargements happen, we should, no, talk about how we really get tourism in the future and climate. This means that we need to support regions in the transition to full-year tourism so that we can also reduce dependencies. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That means that crisis-sensitive growth concepts are actually snow from yesterday. We need new ways in tourism to become really pioneers again, away from the dogma: more and more, more and more!, and I am not talking – before Mr. Hörl gets a breath of breath – of a radical gentle tourism, I am talking about a sustainable social tourism, a tourism that is going back to one another, from which the people who do not suffer from nature – we must not forget that the beauty of nature is our capital, is the business base – with the creation of value is achieved, in the sense of quality rather than quantity. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Eco-social!]] This means, of course, that we need to promote small-scale tourism, and we do so on the one hand with the new commercial tourism promotion, but we also need to see that we support more regional supply chains. That means: We really have good agricultural products in Austria. However, as Mr Stammler mentioned earlier, we must also mark them in the menu. I am convinced that the guest can appreciate it when he knows that the egg on the Tyrolean Gröstl of chickens comes from the local free country farm and not from Argentine cagekeeping. [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] Maybe one last thing to say: We still only define the success of tourism today about the number of nights, but these figures do not say anything about how much value added in the region remains, how satisfied the population is, how satisfied the employees are – a big topic. The Secretary of State has referred to it, it is not a new topic, but one that is increasingly on the rise: the lack of employees. By the way, we know that we have the greatest potential for women, where we need to expand childcare facilities, which is also a tourism issue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Overall, we need new indicators to measure success. I can, of course, list more here, but my speaking time is over. I think we're already seeing that in this political field, we certainly don't get bored. I am looking forward to working together and I am looking forward to meeting these great challenges together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e13977	The next speaker is Mr Michael Schnedlitz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, above all, at home! If you are right now in the announcement of Mr Haubner of the Austrian People's Party, who has said: Marble, stone and iron break, but this government isn't!, a little scared and scared, then I can take the worry, because the song goes on: Everything, everything goes by! and then Austria is free again. – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: A poet! A folk poet!]] If you stand out here today as a black and green politician and demand respect for black and green politicians in your speeches, it would be especially necessary for you, as politicians, finally to respect the Austrians, the population. [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... the boss has a joy!]] As long as you don't live that and don't do that, I tell you quite clearly, you, too, deserve no respect here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There has never been a federal government and a German chancellor who has so humiliated the people who have dealt with the Austrian population in this way. What do you think about how a supermarket employee feels when she followed the Austrian People's Party Day last weekend, when you celebrated shoulder to shoulder, almost sitting together without a mask and the Federal Chancellor roared into the crowd: [[Abg. Michael Hammer: And you in Graz, too, right?]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: Jealousy, or what?]] “So many in such a small room are called so many viruses, but now we don’t care anymore!”? What do you think the supermarket worker feels like when she has to go to work on Monday and wear this mask for hours because you think you're something better than our employees? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Humiliated she feels humble – and not only the employees in the supermarket, that goes to public transport and, and, and, and, and. Even now I see – the Greens are nothing better – the image with champagne and instincts that Mrs Maurer will produce when you fly out of this house the next time, and I can also promise you: Next time will be the last time, a third time there won't be for you either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because you believe from the blacks and the greens that you're better because you think you're up there and there's the population down there: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] I am telling you that this will be taken into account. You will be presented at the latest at the next election. Mr Nehammer may have won the vote at the Federal Party Conference – he should enjoy it, because that was the last election he will ever have chosen for himself. In addition to human suitability – which would be very important for a politician – he also lacks the methodological suitability, one only has to look at the whole chaos that you have been producing here for two years. [[Abg. Hoefinger: I don't think you can judge that!]] [[Abg. Höfinger:... the speaking time!]] Now that stability and order are necessary, you produce a mess and chaos, from government transformation to government transformation. A change in government is always a step forward, and a resignation usually has two reasons : [[Call the ÖVP:... from Ibiza to the sports bags!]] The first reason for a resignation is if the chancellor says they were all so great, and he thanked the retired persons: This is the case if they voluntarily take the hat because they want nothing more to do with this government, because they themselves as ministers do not even want to touch on this government. You can answer for yourself what is the state of this federal government when so many ministers leave the sinking ship, ladies and gentlemen! Another reason for a resignation is if the Minister or the Minister is not personally or professionally appropriate for the office. Finally, this also means that if the EIA or the Greens are unable to find suitable personnel to occupy the ministerial offices. No matter why these withdrawals take place then, whether for reason of one or two, they provide chaos in the Republic, and day by day more damage to people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To make this chaos a bit more tangible, you only have to look at the office of the chancellor: Three ÖVP Chancellors within one year, two out of three chancellors did not vote by the Austrian population, and all three brought us something: Chancellor Kurz the corruption, Schallenberg the honest citizens' proximity to the Austrian People's Party and chancellor Nehammer, who seems to have something better to do or who doesn't want to touch on his own government, I don't know exactly, a backpack full of embarrassments, starting from Cobra Gate to Blamage on the international stage, up to Laura Sachslehner – but the staff policy in ÖVP is your business. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Höfinger: I can imagine that at your speech!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP: You've got the backpack on!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Your speech is embarrassing!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard! Swurbler!]] Don't misunderstand me: If you don't find a suitable staff for the People's Party and so drive the People's Party against the wall, that's your problem. But if you no longer find suitable personnel for the Federal Government and for the Ministries, and therefore Austria is against the wall, you are no longer portable as a People's Party and as a Green for this Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are now bringing in a motion of distrust, against all the ministers and all the state secretaries sitting here on the left and on the right of me, like the who’s who of the political failure. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Well, that's right!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Ah, against everyone the same?]] [[Call: On which foundation]] Even if you do not want to allow new elections for fear of the voters, because you have already seen for yourself that every second of you will not sit there anymore, because you yourself have already recognized that the Austrian People's Party is no longer electable after the corruption scandals and after the chaos and failure for the people in that country, then, let us be honest, you must not continue to take our country hostage. [[Call the ÖVP:Ibiza! Sports bag!]] The problem is that you do not take the damage out of it, but the people in our country do. The sufferers are the workers and the employees. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The sufferers of your policy are the economy, the entrepreneurs, tourism, agriculture. They have taken our children the future and our older generation, the elderly, the dignity. [[Call:To seawas]] [[Abg. Steinacker: such a fool! That's a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: A strong speech!]] They are – in summary – human, methodological and professional failure, a declaration of bankruptcy for our country, and precisely that is why, in order to put an end to this spectacle, I am finally allowed to submit our motion for a mistrust. Ms Herbert Kickl, Dr Susanne Fürst, Michael Schnedlitz and other Members on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Government and the State Secretary [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Well, the whole game!]] The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government and the State Secretary shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 iVm Art. 78 para. By express resolution of the National Council, 2 B-VG fails to trust.” You finally lost the trust, finally take your hat! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sit down, not enough!]] [[13:50]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14465	The request for distrust is sufficiently supported, it is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Franz Hörl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14513	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear viewers in front of the televisions! We have just seen the blue foam in front of our colleague's mouth. Mr. Hauser, I'm actually a bit disappointed by you, I expect you to do something else. [[Abg. Hauser: You stay in your bladder, don't you?]] You know, I very much appreciate you, but I would have expected a lady, a profound professional – who is willing to do something in the government for Austria – to do something for you, Mr. Hauser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hauser: I quoted from your work!]] Thanks and thanks are in the direction of our Federal Minister Elli Köstinger, who since the 8. January 2018 was a fighter for tourism and has moved a lot in these difficult years. [[Abg. Loacker: What moved her?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Locked, locked...!]] Thank you for your commitment. I wish her all the best for the future. The support regime, the practical short work, the fight with the various regulations and lockdowns, the relief of these conditions and also the explanations for the population bear the name of Elisabeth Köstinger. [[Abg. Loacker: The closure of the Federal Gardens bears its name!]] I thank Margarete Schramböck for the investment premium. I think both are all good to wish. We lose a successful fighter with Elli Köstinger, but with State Secretary Susanne Kraus-Winkler, we win a proven expert with great experience. She has grown up in the inn of a family business, she is now an international entrepreneur, tourist consultant, studied business administrator, long-term industry and interest representatives. That's all I can do, that's all I can do. I'm glad she's doing this work. She was also president of the European Hotel Society and was the representative of the hotel industry as an obsessor in the trade association in the Chamber of Commerce. Together in the last two Corona years, we have made every effort to alleviate the need and to explain and improve the regulations of the Ministry of Health. I'm glad, Mrs. State Secretary, that you're bringing yourself in here with your expertise, and I admire your courage. Tourism, which has known and recognized an old pioneer from Ötztal, is that economic form with the greatest prosperity spread throughout the country, to the remotest valleys, villages and villages. To maintain tourism and to its original size is your job, Mrs. State Secretary, and we are happy to help with it. Hard months and great challenges lie behind us: Austria accommodated nearly 153 million guests in 2019, with Corona falling in 2020, in the first Corona year, to 98 million and 2021 to 80 million. The last winter was difficult, the start was a trembling party. I remember that both the Federal Chancellor and our head of state have ended this lockdown. The weeks around the turn of the year were a horror to me. In the end, however, we got over the rounds well. There were fewer respites, fewer promotions, but also fewer employees – a part of the farms could not be locked up at all. That is why we need improvements, and there must no longer be such a bumpy start. We need to work better with the neighbouring countries, with the competition countries, so more Europe and more coordination need to be done. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The current biggest problem for Austria's economy is missing employees, we have heard it more often today. In tourism, especially in the service sector, 35 000 people are currently missing. In the lockdowns, although we organized a result for the employees with the short work, we still lost about 30 000 employees in tourism during this time. I thank you for the various efforts, for example the innovative red-and-white red card, the solution with the regular season kidneys can be praised and seen as good help. But what we need is an additional seasonal quota. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There is a quota of 85 but 180 and more requests in the Schwaz district. That's where you have to rework, I think. We need help on labour markets in the European Union, especially from the southern countries, and we need to bring people seasonally. Thank you for the dedicated speech for the teaching, Mrs. State Secretary Plakolm. We also need financial incentives in the transition from working life to retirement so that we can keep people in employment longer. 270 000 job vacancies, 36 000 of them in the area of tourism alone, face 260 000 unemployed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Klubobmann Wöginger has again ordered 100 000 additional workers for care today. What are we waiting for, ladies and gentlemen? – The welfare hat in Austria is burning and you are talking about better conditions regarding unemployment benefits. Are you all right?- Oh, my God! What Do You Believe You really think of what a host and his family have been doing for months because they don't get any employees? What do you think about what a master-in-law thinks he's got enough orders, but he doesn't get any staff, he's agreed to completions, and then he's gonna have to pay a fee? I think we have to stick together here, we have to rethink these things completely. We need additional labour from abroad, Mr Federal Minister, and I ask you to help us. Mrs State Secretary, there is a lot to do, we are helping together so that we can move this forward quickly! I am also pleased that our new State Secretary for Digital Anxiety, Mr Tursky, is sitting on the government bank, with him Tyrol will have a good representative in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14626	Mrs Mag. Julia Seidl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14651	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear sisters! Dear guests in the house! Mrs. State Secretary, you have addressed a number of issues that you want to address in the future in tourism. I also believe that we have a lot to do in this area. You are out of practice, you have said you also know the problems of businesses. I look forward to the future of solutions and offers that will solve these problems. I am pleased to be working together, especially when it comes to innovation, progress and long-term security of tourism objectives. Summary: What things currently need a very, very urgent solution? – For the first time, we have the topic of credit repayments from companies that cannot currently reach the same level as before the crisis, for several reasons: We have inflation, we have high energy prices, and this leads to the credit rates of the secured loans of the Cofag, the Blackbox Cofag, are not repayable to this extent, and this is making many companies mad now. I beg you It therefore – also Mr Kocher and Mr Finanzminister – act very quickly in order to prevent the non-refundable credit from creating an insolvency dispute that has nothing to do with normal market adjustment. You have to react quickly. It has already been promised, so far I have not seen anything; and we NEOS do not mean the creeping nationalization in which the Cofag participates with participations in companies. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On the second point, which is at least as important – I would say it is at the same level – we have heard today, ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned it: It is a matter of trying to deal with the issue of labour shortage. You may have heard it yesterday, too, there are demands from the industry that you extend the calculation periods for overtime in the season in order to hold long-term employees. There's an urgent need to do something. There are many new working time models that employees would like to have for their work, there are many models that can now be implemented, however, the problem is, they are so complicated for SMEs that they are constantly in the hands of a haxe if you are a small company that has no staff level, no marketing level or no management level – and this is true in tourism on many farms. Next point, funding landscape: In Austria, the funding landscape is generally a small – or perhaps even large – mystery, no one knows exactly what we are promoting where it is going. We have been promised over a year ago that the new directives of the ECHR will finally be imposed to enable long-term and future-proof support. Finally, please implement the Court's recommendations, the impact objectives for tourism development, and consider: What will future concepts look like in the regions? How can we get into regional spatial planning in order to prevent the villagers from devoting themselves to their own communities, such as the mad and therefore sustainable regional development? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Hey, hello!]] I'd say there's a lot to do. We are ready to participate at any time, even if it is a matter of developing cooperative child care models in the regions, as Mr Neßler has already announced, so that women can really find full-time jobs in tourism in the long term and that care is guaranteed for the children. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's not where we'll ask you about it!]] We look forward to working together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14706	Mr Philip Kucher came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14731	Mr President. Estimated government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that many visitors are here in Parliament after a long time. Welcome! I don't know how you are, we've been following a government declaration for over three hours now. This is a moment when a new government team is here, and one should assume that the people who have fire have the enthusiasm that are proud that they can start something for Austria, that they can do something for Austria. But after these three hours, we notice that somehow the air is outside. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Not only did nothing come in terms of content but it is no coincidence that the Deputy Chancellor and the Chancellor left the meeting after an hour, because they themselves said: There's better to do than listen to what's being said here, but it's not happening! All the people who listen to us now expect answers. The pensioner who sits at home and does not know how to continue in the face of dramatic inflation, who now struggles with it every day and does not know how to afford life – living, heating, refuelling – which is really desperate, has turned on the TV and thought she might now get answers – not answers to any theoretical questions, but answers to questions of her daily life, to the question of how she can afford her life. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: But she doesn't know that after your speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] However, there have been zero messages on the question of inflation as well as on all the other future issues of this Republic – zero messages! – It was not a government statement today, it was a bankruptcy declaration! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where are the fire and the enthusiasm for being proud to be able to do something for Austria? Let's go through the individual areas: What happened in the world of work, in the area of Federal Minister Kocher? – The only statement is a retro-examination – it has been ten years since, at the time, Frank Stronach asked: What do we need a union? The best works council is the boss anyway. If someone's worried, he can come to Mr. Stronach right away. [[Abg. Zarits: This has already been said by light peace about the social partners!]] This has now been implemented with Mr Kocher: As Minister of Labour, he is now also Minister of Economic Affairs. – World class, this is Frank Stronach 2.0! I'm glad that Mr Stronach is back in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember Abu Dhabi: big photo appointment with the Minister of Raw Materials. Nobody knew there was such a thing in Austria. We have a raw material minister, but we have empty raw material storage in Austria. There's nothing going on in the back and in the front. One of the largest areas of the future: Is there any person here in the House who can only tell us a single bold reform in the field of education by the EIA in recent years? Do you feel that in the field of education anything has gone on, that you do not leave behind children who do not have all the opportunities? – There came from the ÖVP zero, except Marketingblabla. The crowning, I really have to say, was today ÖVP Klubobmann Wöginger, who said he would like to finish the game. He would like to end the second half-time. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, that is -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14807	Wait! There's a problem with the microphone. [[Rejoicing and calling at the ÖVP: Well, he has failed!]] [[Abg. Zarits: That's better anyway!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We'll interrupt for a while. The speaking time is no longer running.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14859	I'll start the interrupted session again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e14880	It would have been too bad not to honor the ÖVP a little more. You've noticed you're already very excited. I wanted to come to the role of Klubobmann Wöginger. [[Abg. Sieber: Listen!]] He told all the serious things today in his speech, it's the second half-time. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's what we heard anyway!]] The first half-time didn't work very well, but the second half-time you will play better. It can be assumed that this may have been a little bit of a start-up difficulty. But, August, that won't happen to you anymore! – That's not going to happen anymore, and the bad thing is, it's not a football game. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - No, it's not a game. What you do every day, and above all you don't do, is not a game. This is not a game, but it has dramatic effects on the lives of people who would hope and expect the Federal Government to do their job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Zero messages and nothing, that's just too little. This is where Mr Wöginger can guess – and it fits in anyway – in Parliament. [[Abg. Wöger talks to Abg. Gerstl]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You've never stepped, haven't you?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Keep talking, that's a theater anyway, what you're doing!]] - Fit, fine. “Save on”! – This is respect, so we are dealing with each other in Parliament. Yes, August, this is an exemplary attitude, that's wonderful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Keep your folk talk in Carinthia!]] That's right with you, because we're still coming to it today: I don't have any ideas about what to do about the price – there's no news from you, Mr. Social Spokesperson! – and delay everything that comes from the opposition. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Don't do anything else, but guess and so on, do nothing – no, we don't! [[Abg. Wöginger: Go to Carinthia!]] And you don't even need to cheat about Carinthia, my dear, because I can easily get a little angry. [[Call at the ÖVP:Klagenfurt,... with the SPÖ!]] Dear ÖVP, you are chosen to do your job. Unfortunately, these were zero messages in the social field today. That would have been the huge chance today. The Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor both know why they went home earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15053	Magnificence comes to the fore. Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15077	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister, Minister and Secretary of State, Secretary of State! Yes, these larger rochades often do not take account of the smaller resorts. For example, in the course of this government reform, civil service from the Ministry of Agriculture has also moved to Mrs Jugend State Secretary. If you look at how the former ministry of Mrs. Köstinger has now been filed, you only notice how absurd this composition was at the time: Civil service, telecommunications, agriculture and others. It is, I think, good that it will be separated again, because the argument, why this happened at the time, was more than questionable. This was reflected in the seriousness with which Mrs Köstinger dealt with the individual topics, such as civil service. [[Abg. Steinacker: The former Federal Minister and not “the wife of Köstinger”!]] For example, it took more than two years for civil servants to have received a joint visit to the Minister for Women. Even during the Corona crisis, one has noticed how serious civil servants and civil servants – ah, there are no civilian servants – have been taken seriously by Mrs. Köstinger, because they have actually almost completely met with ignorance. [[Abg. Steinacker: by the woman former Federal Minister]] [[Except Service – Köstinger!]] Mrs State Secretary, it can only get better in the future, and the expectation is not so high now. The latte is relatively deep when you look at the last two years. I would like civil servants to go back to the focus of politics. It covers at least 50 percent of the young people in Austria who have to perform military service or military service. They are forced to do so. You know what our attitude is: We are in principle opposed to this forced service, but there was a public survey on it in 2013 and there is no debate about whether or not you are in favour of it. However, if we are already so deeply involved in fundamental and freedom rights in young people, we have the responsibility to ensure that the framework conditions are adequately designed in accordance with humane conditions. In this context, Mrs State Secretary, I am not really optimistic about the interview you gave in the “Kurier” yesterday. Then you say about the question of your civil service priorities – quote –: “What’s not going on is that guys are playing in the football team’s combat team while they’re not comfortable because they have too much dioptria.” – Yes, I think nobody likes it. At the beginning of your term of office, however, I do not really find proper access to all young people who suspect that they are inadequacies. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Don't vote, just the opposite she said!]] Instead, we should talk about improvements in civil service. The proposals from us have been on the table for a long time. On the one hand, this is about harmonizing civil service with the obligation of military: Why are they once six and the other nine months? – It is about small things, but they cause serious disadvantages for those affected, for example, the abolition of absurd diseases. It is, for example, like: If you are sick for more than 24 days, the civil service is forced to be interrupted. This has led to the interruption of civil service for many who had to go in quarantine during the Corona crisis. No rules were found on the part of Minister Köstinger. It is about legal equality in the federal constitution: Why are we still talking about military service? Why can one do this only if one does not want to do military service for reasons of conscience? And, of course, we also need to talk about the basic remuneration: In times of inflation 346 euros plus food – Mrs State Secretary, I do not know if you would spend a month with this money. I think it would be difficult for many here. Civil servants need to get along with so little money, and we also need to talk about it. Mrs State Secretary, I wish you all the best in your new, additional task. We will, of course, measure you in your actions as always, and as in the past, our hand has been extended for cooperation with Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15149	Mr Wolfgang Zangerist, the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15174	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, matching the topic: While the Austrians at home are literally out of the juice, there is a Court of Auditors report showing how the manager salaries are ordered in Austria. This report is relatively up-to-date – from December of last year – and it can be seen from him that, for example, in state-owned Post AG, a board of directors earns the legendary sum of EUR 2,400 000 a year. Of these, 80 percent are vouchers, i.e. premium payments, and I ask myself: What for, with a self-trailer? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2020, Gage for a manager amounted to EUR 1 060 000, of which 55 percent was credited to the group, as well as to an energy company close to the state. For what? None of them can do anything to increase prices on the international electricity market. – These are topics that are now burning the Austrian under the nails. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We now face a simple citizen who has to feed a family with between EUR 1,500 and 2 000 a month, and who will have to pay for the apartment, heating, electricity and a car that at least needs it in the country. While the Minister of Finance is looking at the sprinkling VAT revenue, the ÖVP and its green compagnons do not care if more and more citizens are moving towards despair and poverty. These cisternial discharges you make are nothing but an attempt to clear a big fire with a garden hose. [[Call the ÖVP: But go!]] And if there are measures, then it becomes chaotic, because: Your 150 Euro voucher has now been given to my mother. It's not a senile groisin yet, it's still at a decent age, and thank God she's still healthy, but she can't start with it. I do not want to know how many of these vouchers are not redeemed, and that of people who would need it most. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the main thing is, you're constantly changing. I do not want to remember the names of these constantly changing State Secretarys and Ministers at all. I'm now going to a parliamentary amnesty voluntarily. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Two go, three come – the ÖVP is like a political Hydra: If you take off a skull, then three follow. That's wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They are becoming more and more incompetent, and sometime we're breaking up the whole bunch. [[Abg. Steinacker: Mr President! I can't! Ordinary call!]] And if you know how the ÖVP is not working in this country, then you also like to believe that the former minister, Mrs Köstinger, is about to rise to the president of the Federal Forest and will earn more there than she has earned as a minister, namely about 450 000 euros a year. Now I am done with the ÖVP for the time being because I have the Werner Kogler here today. Werner, we've been working very well as Members for years, and I have to tell you honestly, you're a messing-up of yourself today. [[Abg. Melchior: Aha?]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Mr President, that is no longer possible! Ordinary call! I can't!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If, when you were a young Member, someone would have been around you like you are today, if you were talking about the government bank, you would have verbally broken that speaker's mouth, I know. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you green ones have betrayed you anyway. You have betrayed the heritage of your founders. You were supposed to have been for civil, fundamental and freedom rights once, but of an idealist party nothing more has left than a degenerated chromosome pheasant. [[Abg. Steinacker: order call! Request protocol!]] And then the Duo Rauch-Reich is added – Mr. Minister and Mrs. Gecko-Head. Mr Rauch says that the food trade masks will be necessary until June, and Mrs Reich wants to carry them on immediately over the summer. You don't have any more empathy for the people who have to deal with it out there and suffer from it. It doesn't matter to you. I say here: Down masks, everywhere and immediately – and at all, exactly! [[Call:And at all]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is still the excellent idea of Mrs Reich that birthdays celebrated in November or December should be moved to September. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] Well, that's a great idea! So that must be a special smokeful connection between these two rulers, because if you have such ideas, you must have a bit of smoking. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: order call! I can't do that!]] If we make the government smoke-free, we make it ÖVP green-free! New elections now and immediately!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15358	Mr Zanger, I have to give a call for order for the term ‘favorability of yourself’ as well as for the accusation of smoking.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15394	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a short part-session is desired. - That's not the case. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'no additional burden on forced members of the Austrian Chambers of Commerce as a result of the increase in chamber contributions'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government and the State Secretary in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 in conjunction with Art. 78 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:17:26]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2490/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the Federal Law on Social Assistance (Sozialhilfessungsgesetz) and the Federal Law on National General Statistics on Social Assistance (Sozialhilfesetz) (1480 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15473	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15508	Mr President. Remaining members of the government! Mr Sozialminister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope it's getting a little more serious now. We're talking about a serious subject. We are now talking about social policy and we are talking about the fact that what I heard on the radio today is unfortunately not going to happen. It has been reported in the radio about a reform of the basic social assistance law, and unfortunately it is so that the label gap is also. You have to make this accusation because at best a few changes are made to a law that can be adopted by the federal states – i.e. can make changes – but do not have to. I believe that in times when price increases, the consequences of the pandemic for the economic and social situation of many people in Austria are not yet foreseeable, this is really too little. Whoever needs social assistance in Austria has a hard life, a life at the lower limit. It is almost 300,000 adults and children who need this support, and there are about five times as many people in our country who are vulnerable to poverty: one and a half million. Let me look back again and again, especially by the Greens, into the past: It was 2010, ladies and gentlemen, when we tried to harmonise the country's social assistance laws and introduce a need-oriented minimum guarantee. While minimum standards were agreed at the time, a social assistance law was adopted in 2019, with maximum limits for affected people. I think I can say that this social state has been increasingly weakened since 2017. In his one hour speech, the Federal Chancellor – with 100 percent – also said: “We must ensure that the poor do not get poorer”. – He assumes that there is poverty in our country at all. This is actually not worthy of a German chancellor who takes the word social policy into his mouth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Know that children who are poor – 370,000 children in this country are poor! – have a lower birth weight? They often have headaches and abdominal pains and they also have common health problems. These children also often need after help, which their parents often cannot afford. I believe that this issue, which is very important to social policy, is a very important one: How can we, as an ever weaker social state, be responsible for this, for the government parties, at the time Turkis-Blue and now Turquoise-Green - – – – Mr Koza, you certainly cannot speak up about these mini-changes in the basic social assistance law today, there will be more people at risk of poverty than before, and you will not change it because you are playing along because you are playing with the social incompetence of the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] [[Abg. Koza: No... that's it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fürlinger: This is a dream!]] I would like to conclude by saying: Nobody wants any child in Austria to be poor. Let's talk about child protection at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about how we ensure children, how we secure single parents' households, because exactly this last investigation that single parents are particularly vulnerable to poverty, you can't talk about them here! – Yes, the Social Party of the Greens: [[Abg. Hoefinger: Not you, we are!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] You've failed. I think it's important that it really comes to a change. We have now heard 3.5 hours of how Austria should develop, and we have not talked about how we can make a social state stronger again, rather than weaker, as it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15601	Magnificence comes to the fore. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15626	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with these decisions, we are making the social state stronger, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Höfinger: Bravo!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding today to improve social assistance, which will bring thousands of people to a significant improvement in their social and financial lives, thousands of people who are vulnerable to poverty, thousands of people who are poor, who sometimes do not know how to do their daily expenses. This is particularly important now, in times like this. With today's decision, which we are going to take today, we are pulling the turquoise-blue social aid new poison teeth that have led to unnecessary social hardships. This is, of course, an improvement because it will be very financial in these people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With today's decision, we are also bringing groups back into social assistance that have so far been excluded. That too is a very important point. Yes, it is true with these decisions today, we will not solve the social assistance as a whole or all the problems that have come about with social assistance – yes, that is so – but we will take very important steps and will decide on substantial improvements. First of all, a few facts, because the figures relating to social assistance repeatedly float in the area, which are simply not sustainable, and the social assistance or the minimum guarantee is often referred to as a social hammock: The fact is that, in 2020, an average of 207,000 people are in social assistance, which is 2.3% of the population. The average duration was nine months, the average level of social assistance was 699 euros per month, and was not fully exhausted in the case of Weitem. Also an interesting number: 14 000 people are uplifters, they are employed and they are providing social assistance. 14 000 people – especially single-schoolers, those working part-time, many women – deserve so little that they have to increase with social assistance. There are a total of 64 000 people who must be available to the labour market: People in unemployment or who only receive minimum insurance, people who receive unemployment benefit or social assistance. That is, the vast majority of 207,000 people who receive social assistance are old people; people too young; people who are too sick; People who are physically impaired and cannot do any work. That is, these are people who are unable to work, and they get social assistance – and that is so right, important and necessary. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] Perhaps briefly on the crucial changes that we will adopt today: In the future, 13th, 14th. The monthly salary of persons receiving social assistance is no longer charged with social assistance. In the future, care benefits will no longer be charged to members of the household who are cared for by the social assistance worker. In the future, women living in therapeutic housing facilities – for example in anti-violence centres – have the full right to social assistance. In the future, there will be a hard-and-relieving regime that can involve people who have fallen out so far in social assistance. This is particularly important in pandemic times, because the loss of social assistance is very often accompanied by the loss of health insurance – in a pandemic period almost a health-political disaster. Last: If this government, if this National Council decides in future that people who receive social assistance will receive an additional support, it will no longer be necessary for the federal states to adopt implementing laws, which then delay payment by months – no! – but that's a lot faster. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reform, which is an improvement, it is not completely complete, but it brings more money, more security and more social security to those concerned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this reform, we are making the social network a little more tighter. We must not stand by this reform, it will be even more to do, but it is an essential step to better ensure in this rich country those who need it – those who are at risk of poverty and the poor – in this rich country. That is why I ask for broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15687	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15712	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. It is an exciting discussion and an important discussion, especially in times like this! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the term should be social justice. We should try to achieve social justice, so it is very important to discuss this issue of social assistance volgo minimum security once again. We have had a lot of discussions on this subject over the last ten years. You have done this historically well, but perhaps you should work out the reason why this has become such a huge theme again. I say it again: It is currently different, in the last few years, between 250 000 and 350 000 people in the field of minimum social security and social assistance. When this was started under the Social Democratic leadership/Bundeskanzlerschaft, there were 120,000 people in Austria who needed this assistance. What has changed and why is this such a topic? – It is now as a percentage a minority of Austrian citizens who receive this benefit, the majority, 60 percent, are not Austrian citizens. [[Abg. Ribo: It's foreigners!]] Especially in times like those in which working people in Austria have to struggle very hard to get over the rounds, it is important to help those who cannot help themselves, who are really socially in need, but not to support those who see their permanent subsidies in this system – and that is very, very many. We had these cases – you can remember – with 3 000 to 4000 euros minimum security per month. There are still young men with asylum status who could work but prefer to sit in minimum security. At that time, together with the ÖVP, when it made a reasonable policy, we tried to strengthen social justice again. Unfortunately God is now the ÖVP with the Greens in the government, now the game is turning around again and it goes back to opening, and that is not social justice, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek: We should help those in Austria who also need this help and cannot help themselves – especially the children – but, of course, as a long-term parliamentarian, you know very well, we do not have an infinite amount of money to help there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We need billions at the moment to help the working population, and that is why we should be very careful about this money, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. You know, that costs 3 billion euros a year. They have us liberals immediately as supporters, if we even want to strengthen in this area – but we want social security: We really want to help those who cannot help themselves, that is for us social justice! We liberals are on the side of the population. What we don't want – and for this, however, is now open in this new coalition between Greens and ÖVP – is a return to that state that in Austria almost everyone is looking for their social hammock. I may mention it again, it's nothing new: In Tyrol alone, people from 80 countries on this earth are in the minimum security – 80 states! This is how it is in Tyrol – in Vienna it is clearly more dramatic. In the short phase of our government participation, we have tried to correct this misdevelopment over the last ten years and to restore social justice. I can only call on the ÖVP and colleagues Wöginger and ask them not to go the wrong way on this issue, because this cannot be explained to the working population precisely in times like this one in which everyone has to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15754	Mr Josef Muchichzzu has now referred to an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15782	Mr President. A real correction to Mr Koza's comments: He has here claimed from the speaker's desk that five improvements would be decided today. I'm correcting: Of these five announced improvements, three are candidatures – candidatures that can be unsolicited by the countries accordingly. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is again a content...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is to say, the Fleckerlteppich in Austria, as far as all poverty reduction is concerned, remains – so we do not fight poverty!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15833	Mr Magnández. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Markus Kozazu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15860	Mr Wurm has claimed that social assistance costs 3 billion euros a year. I'm actually correcting: The cost of social assistance is less than EUR 1 billion per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15906	Mrs Bettina Zopf has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e15930	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home! Social legislation in Austria is a difficult patch, the competences in this area are very different. In the sense of subsidiarity, both the federal and the countries are responsible. But what does subsidiarity mean? – Subsidiarity means making decisions as close as possible to citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not every decision has to be made in Vienna, and neither is it useful for everything to be postponed to federal states or municipalities. For example, when it comes to justice, a crime is to be treated equally throughout Austria – there is probably no disagreement about that, that is purely federal matter. On the other hand, an official in Vienna is hard to decide on the street floor in the municipality of XY. Decisions are to be taken where it makes sense: In this way one can understand subsidiarity, so one should understand it. In Austria we have always lived this principle, which is why we also have different national laws in the social field. Since June 2019, there has been the Basic Social Assistance Act, which provides the federal states with a framework for their social assistance. We define the framework at the federal level, so we design the field – but the countries decide on the exact layout of the game. We are optimising this framework by amending the basic social assistance law to be decided. It is an important step, we are once again creating scope for action for the federal states, and we are expanding the scope of the countries. As a result, Austria is again becoming a step more flexible, especially where people need help. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The last three years have shown that this is necessary because: Give someone a job, but no competence, and he'll fail. Today, we are talking about rules on the care of living, 13th and 14th. Monthly salary, increased flexibility in hard cases and benefits in kind: all things that require social competence. Even if the opposition of the ÖVP accuses that we are supposed to be so unsocial, today we confirm exactly the opposite: We support those who need it, and this is definitely not in accordance with the principle of foundry. At the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we postponed a request for an increase in unemployment benefit. Why? – Because neither we nor the population want to steal the time to deal with this issue in every plenary session, this has even confirmed the population with little support for popular desire. I like to be willing to discuss different points of view – but not in endless loop and if that only happens with the aim of preventing us from doing our work. We do not want to keep people in unemployment, but rather to put them into employment. We are guilty of all those who make their daily contributions and thus finance these social benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The following is particularly important to me: We have already discussed the care package today, and without our social spokesperson and clubman August Wöinger would not do this on rail! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] He is not only a professional politician – for over 30 years, he is active at all levels, from municipal policy to federal politics – the Gust is a politician from appeal! No matter where you go, he's known everywhere, he's talking to everyone and everyone. To him people and what is happening in Austria are important. He listens to his incredibly numerous appointments, takes a picture, travels to Vienna and does something – just such politicians need Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To conclude: I am delighted, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you are so excited about our work, that is sometimes the proof that we are right. Thank you for your excitement, we appreciate the indirect praise! In this sense: We will continue to live the subsidiarity, have our ears with the citizens and deal with their concerns at all levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16021	Mr Johannes Rauchzu spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16046	Mr President. High house! I thank the devoted speakers for the seriousness of the debate – and it is also appropriate when it comes to this issue, because we are living in times when more and more people are having difficulties finding out about the money they have available monthly. That has already been mentioned. What we do today with the amendment of the Basic Social Assistance Act is to take toughness and implement improvements – which are urgently necessary and result from practice – and this has also been confirmed by the federal states responsible for the implementation. Especially important – and I would like to stress this – is the hardness control. What exactly does that mean? – The hardness regime is the possibility to estimate and assess in individual cases whether and to what extent aid can be granted. I think this is urgently necessary because it helps where the pressure is particularly large. easing income accounting is also made, care payments and special payments are no longer taken into account. All of this means tangible improvements. It is a question of providing for people in caring housing communities and supporting them with a minimum degree of security, as social assistance is now possible to the fullest extent possible. And now let me say something about the fundamental debate on social hammock and safety. I've been working in this area for over 20 years, and I can tell you: I can't hear this talk from the social hammock anymore! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] No one is volunteering in this social hammock. People want to work because work and work are also linked to income, because appreciation is associated with it and because they mean participation in social life. And the last thing you can take is dignity. And it is, I can tell you, not funny to go to the Social Office and seek help there. That doesn't make anyone from jux and brilliance. Nobody! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I can assure you: To be Minister of Health is important, but I will and will also be a Minister of Social Affairs, who will raise his voice for this group of persons and will be a strong voice for those who stand on the edge and suffer exclusion. That's my job, that's my job, I'm coming from there. If today's speech was dedicated to speaking on a subject, I do. This is my deep conviction, also from the experience of unemployment. I have worked a lot with long-term unemployed people in my life. And there is also the following: No one wants to be unemployed for a long time. There are people who are at the end of their careers who are 50, 55 years old, are only partially able to work and who are sent in the circle, from emergency assistance to social assistance, from there to the pension insurance institution with the notice to submit a pension application. From there they get the message that they are part-time and therefore not pensionable. The game then starts again from the front. Creating offers for these people is the central task of a social state. And I'm going to fight for that, for that I'm there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16103	Mrs Mag. Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16127	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the Federal Government has set itself a high goal. According to the government programme, poverty is to be halved in Austria. But the projects in the government programme and the reality can, as we see, be very far apart, as the speech of Chancellor Nehammer at the ÖVP party has already shown. He said in his speech that the goal of the People's Party was not to let the poor get poorer. This shows the great difference between the goals of the SPÖ and those of the ÖVP. While the ÖVP obviously wants to maintain poverty because it just does not want the poor to get poorer, it is our goal to defeat and eliminate poverty in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, in your speech on the basic social assistance law you yourself have spoken about the social hammock and no one would really like to ask for social assistance. That is why I do not understand why, as Mrs Zopf has said today, it is not possible to increase unemployment benefit – we are constantly making the request, because there are studies that poverty is also driving unemployment – and in this sense to further develop your government programme in order to defeat poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this proposal for a law, which is now before us, the failure becomes visible. It has been refused to reform social assistance in such a way that it is actually a safeguard against poverty. Currently, it is a difficult life for social assistance professionals, it is a life at the lowest limit. The present proposal obliges the federal states not to charge the crisis-related one-off payments of the Federal Government and, above all, the care allowance for caregivers no longer on social assistance. But then we are already done with the commitments, because everything else, where there are positive changes, is at the discretion of the countries. That is, if a federal country doesn't want to do that, then it won't. And with that there is another uncertainty for social assistance workers who do not know whether their federal state will pass through it or not. I would like to stress that the countries have the opportunity to no longer have housing facilities or housing units under care as budget communities. to see and thus to be able to grant their inhabitants the guidance for single people. This also helps many people with disabilities who live in sheltered housing units. It is also appropriate to welcome the possibility of taking out special payments from the accounts in the case of avalanches. We would have wished for more improvements, which should have been binding on the federal states too, because the great uncertainty for social assistance workers should actually be eliminated. I also think it is always terrible to put this word back in the mouth again, because it is no longer a minimum guarantee. It's history. It is a social aid, and these are maximum rates. Unfortunately, there are no minimum rates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would like to make it clear: There are some improvements, but they are not enough to fight poverty and prevent it. The inflation has already been addressed a number of times today. It is currently taking on exorbitant dimensions. It also meets people with care needs. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16271	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16298	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, to the Basic Social Assistance Act: You used to send such materials for a few weeks in review, didn't you? And then the experts were able to comment on it. You don't do that anymore. Who is interested in public participation? – One makes an initiative proposal and locks it through the house in the quick procedure. Yeah, and then we come to the problems. There are some improvements, yes, okay. I think it's also an incentive if you don't go to 13th and 14th. Reference to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Work is supposed to pay off. That's why we're taking it with us now. Overall, however, the structural problems of social assistance remain. We have nine different systems in nine countries. If a country is particularly generous, of course, it has sucking effects. Before such problems, you must not close your eyes. The main weakness of the system has already hit the Minister. People are being sent in circle. If you want social security, you often have to go to two authorities. If someone is an emergency worker and is growing up, he has to take care of his emergency assistance at the AMS and then go after the social assistance. Then two authorities take care of the social security of a person. That is why the Court of Auditors has long said that emergency aid and minimum security should be combined into a common social security system. Of course, no finger is touched in this matter, for who will touch something substantial. Austria is the only country where unemployment insurance benefits, i.e. emergency aid, are not limited in time. And that's what's changed. If it is suggested that the level of social benefits in Austria is so terrible, then I cannot understand it because the objective figures do not give it. We have a social ratio of about 30 percent. 30 percent of GDP is washed by social machinery each year. And if you still have poverty at 130 billion euros at the end, you have worked badly with the 130 billion euros.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16337	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16362	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have already heard a lot about the new basic social assistance law, which is now to be changed again. You know, until 2018 there was the minimum guarantee. I remember when this was introduced in 2011, it said: Yeah, that's what's going on. So that people don't have housing support there and there also social assistance, and I don't know what else to apply for, there's now only one pot left, that's the minimum guarantee. But what we experienced was the year 2015, and we saw Austria was a magnet. At the time, therefore, it was the black and blue government's claim to make this magnet something less attractive, let us say, namely the move to social assistance to bring immigration to social assistance. We have therefore made a reform of minimum insurance in the direction of new social assistance. We have succeeded in doing so if I have also found it unfortunate that the Constitutional Court has not recognized that German knowledge should be included in social assistance in so far as a certain proportion should be fixed for a German course. That's so; be it, you have to accept it. But what happened now? – Now the Austrian People’s Party has fully adopted it. Now social assistance is being re-opened for those entitled to subsidiary protection whom we have had outside. According to the Social Assistance Act, these have been in basic care for so long until they can obtain themselves. Patient persons were in the basic guarantee for so long until they could receive themselves. What happened now? – The Austrian People's Party has therefore returned to the turquoise painting. He's gone again. Now you are again the blacks, now the money is spent again with full hands. There is again the magnet for immigration from all the countries. And I really think this is a step back, which is being decided here today. But what I think is useful is, of course, corrections to the regulation, that in the case of the uplifters the 13th and 14th are correct. The monthly salary and the improvements in the area of the disabled are charged. I would just like to point out that at the time it was our intention – and we have always seen it – that in the case of disabled people in disability facilities, each one counts as its own housing unit, so that it is not summarized. Obviously, in the transfer housing communities have been assessed differently from so-called classical homes. Obviously, other institutions, such as the treatment facilities and women's homes, have been forgotten. That is now being corrected, that is being adjusted, that is an important step. But, unfortunately, we have to say that what we are doing now and what we are experiencing from the Austrian People's Party is a step backwards. Now, the minimum security will be returned to all people from all over the world. That is de facto an invitation to continue coming to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16404	Mag.a Meri Disoski. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16428	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs Belakovich, I know the FPÖ does not have evidence-based policies, but a fact is: People with migration biography are net payers and net payers in the system. That's a fact. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] With the adaptations to the Basic Social Assistance Act, which we decide today, we – Mr Koza has already said it – draw some fangs of this social assistance new, then introduced by the ÖVP FPÖ government. We're pulling these poison teeth today, and that's good. This is especially important for those people who, due to this turquoise-blue social assistance, have been slipped new between the ropes of social and financial security. Our job as a politician, as a politician, is to draw these ropes closer and make them a net, which can be found as much as possible. And today we are getting a step closer to this goal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is also important from the point of view of women. Why? – Imagine a single mother, we call her Anna F. Anna works in a supermarket chain, she has a baby at home, but no one in her personal environment can support her in child care. Thus, in addition to her care work, she can only work slightly against wages. So that Anna can bring herself and her child to the rounds, she's getting social assistance. So far, she lost the 13th and 14th years. Wage, because the turquoise-blue government had found that people who also receive social assistance in addition to a low wage should not receive holiday or Christmas money. For Anna this means, the months in which she could potentially have put a bit of extra money for a birthday, for a Christmas gift or for a trip with the baby, or a bit of money for an emergency situation – a broken washing machine, a broken glasses – did not exist because the money was cut. What does that mean? – One must imagine the consequences: a permanent insistence in a situation of anxiety just before such unplanned expenditure. Like Anna F, there are about 14,000 people in Austria, and we are improving these people today by ensuring that the holiday and Christmas money will no longer be charged with social assistance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another abuse that Turkis-Blue built at the time was the reduction in the social assistance claim so far, if – we have heard it today – woman lives in a women's house or is housed in a violence protection organization. What did this mean for women affected by violence? – Last week during my visit to the women’s house in Klagenfurt, I saw the team there very impressively ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You have to imagine this: This means up to 55 percent less social assistance for women who have the courage to break out of a violent relationship and seek protection in a women's home. Practically, that means that the women had to choose the existential nothing – I get away from this violence relationship, I don't get any money – or to stay with the violent offender, to stay with this partner and at least to be somehow semi-financially secured. We know from practice: Women usually go back to a violent partner before they risk that they will no longer be able to feed their children. And we Greens also know that no woman should ever have to make this kind of decision. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For this very reason we also correct this turquoise-blue maladministration. In the future, anti-violence facilities will no longer automatically be regarded as housing communities, and this will no longer automatically lead to social assistance reductions if you live there. This, in turn, is an important step in the protection of violence. The women on the ground at the Women's House, Klagenfurt, have also confirmed this to me. Since the federal states have already been mentioned a few times, I would like to conclude by encouraging the federal states not only to expressly ask them not only to accept these facilitated and extended ways of action which we are going to create here today, but also to really see themselves in the duty to implement these improvements accordingly quickly. All of us who are here have colleagues in the federal states who have to sit in the respective functions and ensure that they do so. Please get the phonephone! Debates of the European Parliament Make sure that what we decide here today really comes in there! We look where others used to look away. We look where we know that social assistance primarily protects and supports children, women, old people, people with disabilities and people with health impairments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We will continue to look at it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16514	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Christian Ragger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16538	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I should like to follow up on the comments made by my colleague and previous speaker and to make a correct statement: We stick to this example of Anna F. I myself have been a Social Councillor for over four years, and the countries have always had two pots, one for minimum security and now for social assistance, and the other with a pot – and one can be found from Vienna to Vorarlberg – that has called for help in special situations of life. This Anna F. would have been supplied in every federal state with a new washing machine, but also with another car if it had been necessary. There are also social assistance laws for this purpose. What we decide here today, however, is a step back to a social romance that ultimately only draws the greens, because – and that must be borne in mind – we are once again removing ourselves from this performance society. Why? – In 2017, we consciously introduced this law as a principle law, as a successor to minimum security, because we wanted to avoid precisely this effect that more people – in the end thousands, 70 000 are foreigners alone – are again in the minimum insurance system or in social assistance. I would also like to make it clear, on the basis of figures, what this means in terms of peuniary terms. The minimum level of security is now 978 euros. If you add a second person, it is EUR 1 369. If you charge the children – which the Greens never say is that you also receive the child allowance – then I have a gross income of 2 500 euros for three children. Each of my employees, every one of my workers in my valley, will wonder about it and wonder if he has it as a reference. This is the disproportionateness you introduce here today, and that is the disproportionateness that no Austrian and no Austrian understands that at the end of the day you are setting up a new social assistance legislation for foreigners, but against the Austrians. Otherwise, you would have used much more for your disabled people and for people with disabilities, and would have given them much more than in this area you are implementing today. We therefore consider this new regulation, this step back in the Social Assistance Act, which you are now doing here, to be absolutely irregular and not in conformity with for us, and we will continue to fight to ensure that in Austria we clearly have a service society and that we do not re-establish a social hammock à la green social romance.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16577	Mrs Kira Grünberg. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16602	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As we have already heard, countries are given more room to grant social assistance. In particular, I would like to refer to two clarifications concerning people with disabilities in particular, because the reform of the basic social assistance law provides relief for residents of welfare housing and care providers. Up to now, in the case of social assistance benefits, the care allowance has not been charged only to the person concerned or to the person concerned. In the future, care and disability benefits, such as increased family allowances, will not be taken into account not only for persons entitled to benefits but also for caregivers in the common budget. This means that reductions in performance are a thing of the past. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Another important clarification concerns the budget. From now on, housing facilities, which are largely financed by the public sector, no longer need to be treated as a budget community. This means that those living in such housing can be counted as their own household. The opposition has already emphasized today that it is a candidacy, but there are also federal states that are led by parties who are in opposition in the federal government. I would very much like to appeal to all the federal states to put this possibility into practice, so that the people who receive social assistance also have the full right, because the group of people with disabilities is particularly vulnerable. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] But where does it come from that people with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to poverty in a rich state like Austria? In my opinion, there is a very big point on the subject of work, because people with disabilities still have an uneven level of difficulty compared to people with no disabilities. To find a job in the first job. They are the only social group that does not really benefit from the general upward trend in the labour market – although there are as many open jobs as never before. There is absolutely no need for rethinking, especially in times of enormous change, because studies clearly show that diversity and inclusion prove to be a stability and decisive business factor in times of crisis. As an entrepreneur and as an entrepreneur, you have a broad vision and give people with disabilities the opportunity to prove their skills in your company as well, because the group of people with disabilities is a huge professional potential, and we are all business! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16653	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[15:04:18]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2488/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Health Services (1481, p. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2489/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Members of the European Parliament on a federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Law (1482 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2491/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Wage Law 1956 and the Contracting Staff Act 1948 (1483, p.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2492/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the MTD Act and the Law on Sanitary Law (1484 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16738	We come to Agenda items 3 to 6 on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome four representatives of the Ukrainian Rada at our visitor gallery: the Head of Delegation Mesenzewa and the MEPs Chomenko, Schupanyn and Umerow – welcome! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I would like to thank all of you very much for your visit to Vienna in a very difficult time for you, and also for the personal encounter with our members of the friendship group, in order not only to convey the impressions of the war, but above all to discuss the prospects for the future. I can also very warmly welcome the enthusiastic ambassador of Ukraine, Dr. Wassyl Chymynez, in our midst. – Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I can open the debate. Mr Stäger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16790	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Dear television viewers! I refer to Agenda items 3 to 6. This concerns health policy issues, but these were dealt with in the Committee. - Why? In fact, we also have a Health Committee, but the President has assigned these issues to the Committee. This is not quite the case, because the social policy experts in the Committee and in the Health Committee are the health policy experts. That would be the normal parliamentary procedure. Today we have heard very often that the government says: Let's do it all together! We have to work together! – That is what we want, but I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the Committee on Social Affairs: We have had 33 items on the agenda, 20 of which have been put forward by the opposition. We have made proposals against inflation, proposals for health policy, proposals for working conditions in agriculture and forestry, and see here: What happened? What does this Federal Government mean by cooperation? – You have postponed all 20 agenda items where ideas have come from the opposition. You didn't talk about it. This is actually a democratic scandal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Why did this make the government? – The government has done this because it is not even able to read an appointment calendar, because in an appointment calendar – every child on the phone today – you can set deadlines. This federal government was unable to know a week earlier in the Health Committee that some of the laws were out of place, and therefore it was given late in the Committee – because it did not even know a calendar. I would think that this federal government can no longer be the craftsmanship of a serious policy. Serial policy means dealing with the issues in the right committee and dealing with this expertise. I would suggest that the health issues in the Committee on Health and Social Affairs be discussed in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP is trying to get away from the short-image. I can understand that you want to. But it is not enough to remove only the “new” from the People’s Party, but it would really be necessary to get to a new beginning. [[Abg. Ottenschlager:... apparently no criticism of this...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] The best thing for a new beginning would be to ask the voters because they know what you really would do about new politics, and then, I think, it looks a little different for the People's Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the minimum is that you come to the right committees. I think a Reinhold Mitterlehner in the old People's Party shouldn't have done that if he had done it on his own. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Now to the content: We have already discussed a little about what is now important health policy issues. This is the question: How do we deal with the corona measures? We as Social Democracy have always said clearly: We are in favour of the fact that there is evidence-based handling of the rulers with all the corona measures, that is our goal. As an opposition, we have always been a government alliance partner when it comes to the matter. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16933	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e16965	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Dear spectators here in the gallery! Agenda items 3 to 6: various extensions related to Covid and Corona. Mr Stöger has just said something, and I have to put it right at the beginning: A delay does not mean that we do not discuss it. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh yes! How many times have we delayed this!]] On the contrary: We have discussed all 33 agenda items on the last committee, we have heard in one case or another what you have to say, and not only you, but I think we have had very lively discussions there, but a delay does not automatically mean that something is not discussed. [[Abg. Matznetter: A public...?]] So I would ask you to say that again, perhaps in the future, correctly and correctly. [[Abg. Matznetter: Was that public?]] – Mr Matznetter, if you have anything to say, please go out! [[Complementary of the Abg. Ribo and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Was it public? - No!]] What is the point of these agenda items? – It has already been mentioned, it is about these various extensions. Why do we extend various measures, especially in the Epidemic Law, which I would like to highlight? - Well, it's easy: Because the pandemic isn't over. I know there's some inside here who can't hear that anymore. There are some who still claim that it is not, but quite honestly: None of us have something like a crystal ball in any form, where he can look in and say quite precisely: Hey, we know exactly what's going to happen in the autumn! We don't know how the virus will behave in autumn. We don't know what it looks like in the autumn with infection rates. We don't know how aggressive, how pathogenic or whatever the virus will be. We may be able to make an assessment there or there, but at the end of the day we do not know how autumn will really work out. What do we do or what does the ministry do, what is the Minister doing? – Well, as you might have already read the media, a so-called variant management plan is being developed right now. This is now also in favour of feedback from the federal states. So this is a large-scale scenario plan in which four scenarios are drawn, starting from: The virus – as we all hope for each other – is endemic, i.e., we actually do quite well with this virus in its coming variant; up to the scenario: The virus will be like last November, the virus could mutate or train such a variant, so it will force our health care back into the knee, so that's this Lauterbach scenario. For four scenarios one is currently preparing, one has invited very, very many experts, scientists and scientists who have delivered their input. [[Abg. Belakovich: No one can hear that, your experts!]] They have also gone to the countries, to the whole institutions to get feedback there. At the end of the day, we will also have a plan, and for this plan, of course, a legal framework is needed, it needs framework conditions. One is the extension of the COVID-19 Act, which we have already decided at the last plenary session, the other - here and today - is the extension of the validity of the Epidemic Act or of the Covid measures for the Epidemic Act. Why are we doing that? – As already said: I think people outside expect us to have a good plan. [[Abg. Belakovich: They expect to be left alone now!]] For this to happen, legal standards need to be laid down, and, accordingly, legal design is needed, and this requires laws that cover these measures at the end of the day. Finally, perhaps one last word: Whoever today pretends to know for sure that there is no longer any action needed, that or that does not only act without responsibility, but above all highly unscrupulous. The latter we are used to by the FPÖ with dewarming agents, bitter substances, fragrance therapies, invented thousands of vaccines, but of the other two opposition parties we are used to something else. Accordingly, I would also expect to be agreed here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17076	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17097	It is very significant that the health speaker has spoken about the social block, because that is actually health matter, but you have not managed to assign it to the right committee. But it doesn't matter, we're still talking about this epidemic law, this empowerment law for the new Minister of Health, so that he can switch and operate again. People certainly do not expect this anymore, Mr Schallmeiner, but people now want to have their peace at last. This is the only thing that the Austrians would expect from a serious policy. This is the dishonesty you have: You are now doing four scenarios – after, which four scenarios? You're pretending to be all that now - what's going to be? – It may be that we have an endemic situation or not. The probability of the endemic situation is greater than for a non-endemic situation, especially if man did not intervene again. That's it. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: crystal ball! Let's look a bit in the crystal ball, let's predict a bit!]] These two situation assessments are, no longer and no less. The fact that you have quoted Lauterbach speaks for you anyway, but please leave the Austrian population alone with the one who is now talking about killer variants again! There is no basis at all for this, but be it! This empowerment law, which you are now going to extend by a year, determines – and that writes Parliament's correspondence, which is not mine at all –: The legal basis will be extended again, as we can then re-order exit restrictions, we can re-order vaccination certificates, test certificates, the collection of contact data from guests in the gastronomy or tourism, special criminal regulations. We continue to have all of this – and that in Austria, the only country in the EU with a vaccination obligation. There we are in great society with some Islamic dictatorships, which also have vaccination obligations: for example Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Austria. But these were not just the government parties, no, that was – thank you, Mr Schalmeiner said – in action with NEOS and SPÖ. They also want this vaccination obligation, which was already clear at the time of the decision-making in January, that it does not need a human being, but that means you have to get rid of it. They will receive the invoice presented by the Austrian population. They put themselves here and say: Yeah, well, that's the FPÖ, that's all the bluffs! – Your problem is, Mr Schalmeiner, but not only yours – you are now the one who spoke before me – but, of course, the problem of the Austrian People’s Party, the colleagues who have always boasted of it as the great experts: Unfortunately, you're caught up with your policy. It is no longer to be kept under the ceiling: Many studies demonstrate that this vaccination was neither effective nor effective, and therefore an obligation to vaccination is obsolete. Denmark, for example, discontinued this vaccination. It is no longer vaccinated in Denmark because of ineffectiveness at all. What does Austria do? – It recommends a booster for children from five years of age. All of this is done within 24 hours – so much to the evidence-based politics of the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian super-experts. Because we're just with the experts, Mrs. Reich thinks of me. This is the lady who has now said: Well, the mask remains over the summer, well of course! – You can move across Europe without a mask. By the way: FFP2 is a unique one anyway. There is only this in Austria and there was still in Bavaria. Otherwise, there was nowhere at all. But that doesn't matter, Mrs Reich said: It stays in the summer because it's psychological! People are supposed to get used to the mask! – She didn’t say: It's so important that helps! but: That's an education measure, and that's it. It is a purely educational measure for all of this Corona policy in Austria. That must finally end. People don't need education, they don't need premeditation, and they don't need anyone who thinks for them, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrians can do this very, very well themselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, and this masquerade, which you, Federal Minister, are spreading: Yeah, there are new variants now! That's where we have to go. – There's no need for it in any plane, you don't need it in the night gastronomy, in the discotheques, but in the supermarket, because the virus knows: Uh, there I am now! Ladies and gentlemen, no one understands this anymore. Even the ÖAAB – a pity, Mr Wöginger is not here right now – has made a request at the General Assembly of the Chamber for Workers and Employees: ‘Residence of masking obligation for all commercial employees and employees of banks’. – It was put at the plenary last week on Wednesday. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled this request. So I suppose, dear ÖVP, you won't have the mask either. In this sense, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no single study that would prove that the mask brings anything. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: In your world!]] Whenever someone explained to me, he'll send it to me, I'll get some funny comparison study, in which the FFP2 mask has a better filter effect than the operating mask, which in turn has a better filter effect than a oral nose protection. - Oh, that's great! I don't need any studies to do that. Otherwise, there wouldn't be the difference. But there is no evidence that even one infection has been prevented due to the mask, ladies and gentlemen. This only serves the quailery of the population: to make adequate, a psychological education, as Mr Reich has said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:23]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17238	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported. [[Interference of a staff member of the Parliamentary Directorate.]] - Oh, yeah, she brought him in! Ladies and gentlemen, have you tabled the motion for a resolution? - Yes. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, I read it anyway!]] We just held a short agreement. The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Saxinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17281	In her speech, Mr Belakovich claimed that vaccination is ineffective. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, I didn't claim! The media said that!]] – I’m actually correcting that the vaccination usually protects very well from severe procedures.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17339	I can't understand what she said now. I still have the Ladies and gentlemen of the HLW Biedermannsdorf, who visit us at the gallery, welcome us very warmly. Member Smolle has been reported to speak. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17366	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Where are we currently at the pandemic? In the end, that is why we are dealing with Agenda items 3 to 6 and extension of the deadline. – There was a very intense omicron wave, which affected the number of infections. But thank God she has been much milder than past waves. With mildness I do not mean now that it was subjectively mild for each individual – I know enough acquaintance who has quite met it for a week – but that in relation there has been much less burden on hospital beds, even less burden on intensive beds. A very important difference to earlier waves was: While approximately 2 percent of the proven infected died, the Omikron wave was only more - that was also bad enough - than 0.1 percent. So this value went down to about twenty-twoths. You must not forget: Remembering 2020, we see that in November 2020, Covid-19 was the second most common cause of death in Europe after cardiovascular disease. Now we are in a relatively good phase. However, one does not know how it comes, and it is reasonable and careful that politics takes all the scenarios that might occur into view and prepares for it. Everything else was to put the head in the sand. Personally, because of the broad basic immunity, I am optimistic that it will become one of the two better variants, either best case or optimistic, and probably not pessimistic or worst case. But one hundred percent does not know, and that is why we are extending a number of deadlines today. It is about the hospital and health facilities law which suspends certain structural criteria when man is in need and, for example, special facilities for covid patients need to be created, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] or a number of social security laws that have so far enabled risk patients who cannot work in the home office who cannot be protected to be exempted. It is about the Epidemic Act, which allows for contact tracking and contact data collection under certain conditions, or also about laws relating to health professions, that certain health professions in the care, but also health professionals, MTDs in some way can participate in vaccinations, testing or also in laboratory examinations beyond the usual level. It is reasonable to prepare for it in this sense. It wouldn't be easy to do, it wouldn't be responsible. That's why it's good that it's done. And I'm gonna make a little slug. On this fourth point, which concerns health professionals, there is another change inside, which is already a certain precursor to the care package, namely that caregivers who come to us from abroad and who do not yet have full professional recognition with us, because there is still a nostrification procedure running because they still have to submit certain documents, can already work in this time – not at the highest level they are seeking but at a lower level – to integrate and help to support our health system for our patients. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to expressly thank two professional groups – more than groups – in this context. One is the people in the various health professions, who have been there for decades and decades for us and who have been particularly required in the last two years, be it the nursing staff, whether it be the medical service, or also all those who participate in the hospital and in the settled area. I thank them very much. A second professional group, which hardly anyone is talking about, are officials and employees from the Ministry of the State Governments to the health offices that have performed enormouss. I am deeply grateful that they are now preparing together for events that could come, but hopefully not come, in the interests of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17417	Mr Schalmeiner spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17442	Mr President, on the actual correction: Mr Belakovich said or did in her speech that she did not know a study and did not know of any scientific evidence that would underline or prove the effect or positive effect of the mask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I'm actually correcting: Mr Belakovich would have to be at least the technical justification for the 5th. COVID-19 Emergency Regulation – this is the one I have now found on the Fast – of 19.11.2021, in which, from page 18 above, the corresponding documents, Studies et cetera, have been quoted, international studies that demonstrate the positive effect of both FFP2 masks and normal oral nose protection accordingly. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not a medical study! That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a comparative study, a medical study has nothing to do with it!]] Please, my colleague, Mr Belakovich, I would ask you to stay right! [[Abg. Belakovich:...but stupid!]] Just as at the time you falsely had anything of thousands of vaccinations that didn't exist, so what you claimed here is also wrong. [[Abg. Belakovich: I've never talked about thousands of vaccines! What the hell is this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17543	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17577	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! - The waves are still going up. – Yes, the Murmeltier greets daily, and so we are once again discussing the pandemic in plenary today, and it has already been described how incapable the government is of assigning its own requests to the right committee – but please. Let's get to the content: These laws, which will be extended there, will extend the pandemic's emergency legislation by a year, and when Mr Smolle says: Yes, and that will be extended for hospitals too!, then you have to say what it is about. ................................................................................................................................................................ Please what?- Oh, my God! – We do not have as low a hospital covering for Covid as we have been for months, and there is no reason at all that hospitals do not carry out treatment and justify it with the pandemic. That is why such emergency measures are not extended, but turned off. That would have been right. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The provisions for contact tracking in the Epidemie Act are also extended. - Not in your cupboard. That's from the old clothes What contact tracking? In which state has it not collapsed? The contact tracking only makes sense if one can isolate cases so that these people do not infect any more, and this in turn requires the transmission to be as slow as it was at the beginning of the pandemic in the first virus variants. But now, at Omikron, the incubation time is so short that you can simply cuddle the contact tracking. But you can also extend it with this law again! We actually needed measures that lead to a normality, that we get away from vaccinations, vaccines and test roads to work in the normal structure, that doctors and people like to immunise and that we leave testing to the pharmacies and leave out the expensive special structures. Then we come to the mask obligation: There is an FFP2 masculine obligation throughout the nation only in Austria, which has once existed in Bavaria, but covering no other European country. And if you look at how the pandemic happened in other countries where normal oral nose protection was required, you will find that the FFP2 masks have not given us any advantage. We are not better – we are worse than the Swiss, worse than the Danes, worse than the Swedish and worse than the Germans. [[Abg. Belakovich: We also have the worse government!]] It could also be left because the FFP2 masks are first expensive and manufacture second garbage, which could be avoided in a washable fabric mask. Now I ask you one, Minister: Why do you continue to harass employees in the trade with a mask obligation, while people can sit in the inn without a mask for hours? It doesn't make sense. How much joy can one have in the horror of the citizens that one still prescribes masks for them? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is a cutback to the staff in bakeries. It does not have every bakery a super cooling system, so it has 20 degrees in the shop – it's hot, the heat is pressing. It is an advantage to the employees in supermarkets and banks, and we know from the figures of the ages that the trade infections make up a ridiculous small number. It is therefore not justified by anything. But objective decisions have played no role at all since 30.3.2020, which was the day when the 100 000 dead were announced. It's just about politics. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and the Deputies of Smoking and Ries.]] [[15:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17742	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17772	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear colleagues! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! I refer briefly to Agenda item 6, the simplification of nostrifications in the Health and Hospital Care Act. My colleague, Mr Smolle, has already mentioned a number of things that are now being improved in the area. In the future, therefore, qualified professionals from abroad, not from the EU, but from third countries and EEA countries, will be allowed to work during the nostrification process, although a level among the skills they have acquired in their home country will be allowed to work. A further improvement in this area concerns persons – including third countries – with a nursing specialist degree. These should now be allowed to work as care assistants during the process. This measure creates improvements on both sides. On the one hand, we know how urgently we need nursing staff, that is, the institutions, hospitals, are coming to their workforce faster, and on the other hand, the people who come to Austria are able to get a training and work here more quickly into the labour market. It's no secret that we have a nursing emergency, a staff emergency in the care. By 2030, and I think I have already said this very, very often, we need about 100,000 nurses in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich:... billion!]] That is, anyone who can count one and one will know that we depend on well-qualified staff from abroad. Actually, if we have to roll out the red carpet to staff from abroad, we need it so urgently. Unfortunately, it is also true that Austria is not necessarily the most attractive country for these people, so for professionals. [[Abg. It's crazy!]] Other EU countries like Germany, but also Scandinavia, make us quite competitive. But what is it about, that it is not so easy in Austria? – On the one hand, we lack the courses on the FHs, and then there are also language courses. The level of language required there is a very high one. Please don't misunderstand! I know from my experience how important the language is and that you have to learn the language, but no course can replace what you can learn in your work and in dealing with people. That means, as I said, a win-win situation for both sides. People get into the work process faster, learn the language faster, then they can also be used in their skills after some time, and on the other hand, the facilities are happy when they get well-trained staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17820	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17841	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! I also welcome my guests from Burgenland from the union who are present today. Well, my colleague, Ribo, you're lucky or bad that you're talking to me twice today. [[Abg. Ribo: Good luck!]] I share this because I can't share your opinion. They said earlier – the Greens’ attitude – that it is important that we now have labour, that is, staff from abroad who do this. Yeah, but there are two things you need to distinguish. In this new law which we have been presented today, you have two same facts, two equivalent constellations of training, but different legal consequences. Why? – Health care professionals who come from EEA countries may work as diplomats on the same subject; those who come from third countries may work only one stage below, i.e. a level of qualification below, which means diplomats as nurses and care professionals as normal care assistants. That means: This means that social fraud and wage fraud are open to door and door and thus wage dumping becomes the subject of wage dumping. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] However, the Greens cannot want to see wage dumping made possible by legislation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ribo.]] – Mrs Colleague, I would really ask you to reconsider this statement. If we get wage dumping over this rail, it is dangerous and threatening and does not bring anything in relation to all that we have already talked about in the field of care reform today. You wrote in the title of the current hour: “Save the future of care now!” I'm for that, just... Do we keep the care that way? We have to look – and this is what Mr President-in-Office of the Council wants to do – to make this profession attractive, we have to see that we can bring people into training and keep those in employment in care. This leads me to the next topic, we have already talked about it today: EUR 600 training compensation for those entering. 600 euros compared to 1 820 euros for police students: Is that attractive? Is that justified? Is that proportionate? I can also tell you: The EUR 1 400 funding to be provided for re-training with the AMS will only be available next year, starting at 1.9.2023. Now the people who are busy need the support, now we need new forces. Why, Minister of State, is it not possible that we are already providing this funding with 1.9.2022? We, our group, do not see this, we do not see any reason for it to come later. This is the same chaos as in the extension of the deadlines that we have mentioned earlier. This is also prolonged in the care reform, which is actually only a paperier. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Those who want to go to care and care deserve this, we are guilty of those who can no longer endure the present situation. We need clear signs now and not just 2023! – Thank you for the attention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e17998	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. I can very warmly welcome the school speakers of the central teaching institutions to us at the Hohe Haus. Welcome! And, of course, the trade union representatives are welcome! [[General condolences.]] That's where we come to the next speaker. Mr Kucher has spoken. – The floor is yours! Please, ladies and gentlemen, a fireworks.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18053	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask Mr Lopatka for a little support. Mr President, you were – as a social democratic, you could say that – feared in certain areas as well as being able to handle not only the fine blade, but also in part with the broad heaviness, which has been a bit of a railway terror, perhaps a bit too much in this area, but in the time when you were still a clubman, it was always very important for you to have seen a cross-party view of the fact that such fundamental processes in Parliament are being respected, that work in Parliament is taken seriously, that cooperation is taken seriously – with all the criticism that is necessary – and above all the work in the committees. This has changed a little through the pandemic, and perhaps I would like to quote the social spokesperson of the Greens, Mr Koza, as an example. He came to Parliament two years ago, full of motivation, and has experienced this in this pandemic period in such a way that we have to make proposals in the last minute, so to speak. Now we are far from an acute situation, but Mr Koza has unfortunately only met this and believes that Parliamentary work in the committees means simply adjourning everything that comes from the opposition, that, although there are no ideas in the context of the inflation itself, there is no solution yet, but 20 requests of the opposition in the Committee are postponed. I don't blame him. He got to know it like that. Or such things as a review that one, together with experts, looks at laws that one says that this together with science and A wide-ranging review of universities must be carried out once again: He says that this is too bureaucratic, that it can be changed overnight at second reading, that you can still bring it in a secret way in the middle of the parliamentary procedure, because you can just go over it. Speed kills he has learned in this way. What I would like to say, Mr Koza: Although we have seen, across the parties, that in the acute phase of Corona, we are pragmatically supporting the laws, the process of law enforcement, but the danger is that things have now come into play, to which we all have to say: Stop! And those who have been here in the House for a long time – Mr Lopatka, that is why I really ask – probably also have the responsibility to pass on this to younger colleagues, namely to all that has happened in recent years: It's not allowed to break in! There must be no further assessment of the fact that, in second reading, one is going through the fact that one is, in fact, destroying the parliamentary process and that, in truth, issues which normally need to be discussed in a broad manner in the Committee on Health are simply being debated in the Committee on Social Affairs. These are, I think, things that you really have to fix. That is why I really ask for support for colleagues Koza and all the other colleagues concerned, so that we can really fix it for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18096	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18117	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Apart from the fact that the extensions have landed in the wrong committee, this is actually a completely misguided measure. Because what is going to happen here today, ladies and gentlemen? – Exception laws, emergency laws, regulatory empowerment laws are extended – without any need. The situation in Austria has changed significantly over the last two years compared to the spring of 2020, but the epidemiological situation has changed significantly. The corona virus is mutated, the omicron variants are now infectious, but significantly less diseased than the influenza viruses, and yet this government wants to extend these emergency laws. What does this mean, ladies and gentlemen? – This means that we continue the mistakes of the past. This means that we are continuing emergency measures that were taken when we were completely unprepared for a viral infection and are now being sold as preparation measures for the autumn rather than actually taking substantial precautions in the health system. The next virus may not be a corona virus, perhaps an enhanced influenza virus or anything else, and there are no legal regulations, Mr. Federal Minister! This does not help us with the persecution of justice and the police, and there are no regulatory powers, but the only one that helps is a proper crisis preparation in our health system, so that cases of illness are treated as best possible and as early as possible. If you already want to do something about the Epidemic Act, Mr. Federal Minister, then you'll throw overboard all the misconstruction that's developed over the last two years: Let's re-set it up, redefine it, from when it actually enters into force, whenever it is possible to come back out of force, we also define exactly at which thresholds what limits are allowed! It must be clear to you that, in the form of this regulation empowerment, as it is now, this cannot be a long-term system, which is also completely intrusive, and that this also leads to wrong growth, as we have seen in recent months and years. And before you define any additional measures, please evaluate them, just as the Germans and Swisss have already done some of this, whereby they have insisted that, for example, Lockdowns simply do much more damage than benefits and therefore not only Ultima Ratio, but even in the last case, are still counterproductive. So we need other solutions and not an extension, not more of the same. We need measures in the health system away from the care debate in the field of medicine, which increase the capacity to improve the willingness to go in this profession and stay in this profession. A few weeks ago, we read a report that in 2021 alone, medical personnel in the hospitals did more than 3.18 million overtime in Upper Austria. That's a complete duck, these overtimes have to be paid out or mined somewhere. It must not come back as far as it is, because it needs additional staff, it also needs additional financial resources. It is exactly the same with the health authorities, Mr Smolle has also mentioned it: completely neglected. We still have districts without an official doctor. We still have no reasonable rules for recruiting epidemic doctors. That means we're back at the next wave as naked as we were at the last waves. You'd have it in your hand, Minister: You can control this through the relevant regulations and allowances, at least in the field of health authorities, and you can ask the Minister of Finance to loosen the necessary funds for financing, especially for the financing of hospitals. I sat in the Committee on Budgets on Monday and asked twice because I couldn't believe it: There is no active increase in the Federal Hospital Funding contribution, although we know from the past that the budget for an infection situation was not sufficient, and we know that there is still a massive setback, for example in the overtime that needs to be paid out, or in the premiums that cannot be financed at all. In other words, the human situation will automatically develop as badly as it has in recent years, because no active action will be taken. I come to the conclusion: Evaluate the measures before you extend them, and remove the Vaccination Act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18175	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I shall then put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Social and Health Committee. [[15:51:08]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Markus Koza, Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Civilian Vacation and Rehabilitation Act and the Foreign Employment Act (1479, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18223	We shall now proceed to item 7 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. As Mr Pöttinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18250	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! Dear spectators at home! The decision of this amendment under this agenda will bring about changes in the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act and the Foreign Employment Act. What's this about? – There are, inter alia, bureaucratic simplifications in the payment of holiday money as well as in the exchange of data between the Buak and the AMS and the ÖGK. In addition, we create the legal basis for the issue of a service card for active or non-employed construction workers who have claims to the Buak and who do not have a construction ID card. This service card is also to be issued to workers who have been posted abroad and can be subsequently equipped with the function of a building ID card if requested. This will improve the service for those concerned and ensure the identification of the identity of the customer with the Buak and, in particular, in case of random construction site controls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Other items of the novelle concern the payment of a replacement benefit for unexploited bridgeage payments for construction workers, which after the 58. A permanent invalidity pension has been granted. Furthermore, the regulation introduced at the beginning of the Corona pandemic, which enabled unemployed construction workers to apply for early payment of claims arising from the Old settlement by the end of September 2020, is now to be transferred to permanent law. Overall, this novel result of a very reasonable social partners' agreement, which was unanimously endorsed at the Committee meeting last week. This innovation brings benefits to employees and employers, and above all it contributes to administrative simplification. I think debureaucratisation is necessary in many areas, and this novelle shows how it can work well. Yes, it is also gratifying that NEOS, in particular Mr Loacker, supported this request. He knows that, I think, he has an allergy to the Chambers, and to support a social partners' agreement speaks for himself. Thanks also to the NEOS. One word on our committee work: It is now, I believe, twice the criticism of the opposition, by Alois Stöger and colleagues Philip Kucher, that we are repeatedly adjourning so many agenda items or opposition requests. Ladies and gentlemen, if you know the system, how our committee work works, then you know that this is necessary. Otherwise you would be with almost anyone Innumerable points are heard again and again, for: If a request does not go through in plenary, the opposition is often not too bad that it still brings the request back to committee, and we can only postpone it, otherwise we would hear the same thing every time. So it also serves for protection, and sometimes I wish that the wealth of ideas of the opposition is a little bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18310	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18332	Mr President. Federal Minister! At this item on the agenda there is no criticism of any party, of any representative of a political party. It is also important to say thank you for this BUAG-Novelle, it is the 26. Novelle in the last ten years here in this House. We see, wherever the social partners agree and Parliament is in favour of it, that Parliament will also take these proposals into account and decide. Mr Pöttinger has already done the essentials. There are four major innovations and changes in the construction workers' holiday and handling law. In the future, a plastic card will allow all workers on construction sites subject to the Buak to see and retrieve their claims at any time. [[keeping such a person in height]] Digitalisation is used to the fullest extent. The introduction of this Buak service card is another important step because it is identical with the construction ID card that we have already discussed and decided here in Parliament, also in the fight against wage and social dumping. Another point in the novel is that the workers can be paid out early. The workers thus come to their demands and the liquid funds in the Buak are being dismantled, so exactly what honourable Member Loacker has repeatedly called for is now being implemented. The next item is the duration of the holiday fee. In other words, it is now also possible in the BUAG that payment before consumption of the holiday can actually take place. And the last point: All those workers who do not make it, the claims for a bridging fee up to 58. To reach the age of life, this is now possible as a bridge up to its heavy work pension. I really thank all the partners. I thank the ÖVP for the difficult discussions, dear Peter Haubner, but we have managed to reach a consensus with you and also with colleague Graf. I would like to thank the Liberals for their silent approval of this BUAG novel, the NEOS for their first approval of a BUAG novel, the Greens for their great confidence in everything BUAG matter is concerned, and, of course, the SPÖ, which, here and again, fully supports the concerns of the construction workers and the economy. A thank you also to the Federal Minister for the support with his experts in the ministry, but also a great thank you to a person, to my Compared to the holiday and treatment fund, Obmann Hans-Werner Frömmel, who will end his position there tomorrow: ten years of supervision in the Buak, with 26 BUAG novels in ten years – for the benefit of the construction industry, for the benefit of the workers. I think there was a great story written there. Many Thanks to everyone, thank you very much to Hans-Werner Frömmel, whom I would like from this point of view to wish everything good for his future and a lot of health. Nothing stands in the way of a unanimous decision of this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18389	Mr Kocher, the Federal Minister of the Interior, has been mentioned, which I welcome very warmly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18410	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course pleased when there are social partners in this area. It's not the first one, it's been in recent years, and that's a good tradition. I am very pleased with the broad support also within the political groups for the amendment of this law. The improvements have already been addressed: It is about finishing old, the transition to finishing new, an option that brings an advantage to those concerned. It is about the maturity of the holiday fee in the month in which the holiday is taken. Although this is already a practice in the industry, it is now also legally established. It is about incapacity for work and bridging money, which is also better regulated. Finally, it is also a step in digitization in this sector. The service card provides easy means of control, but also for facilitating service provision. Overall, this is a very good package from my point of view. Thank you very much to the social partners for the negotiations. I am pleased that this will be decided today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18441	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. I can ask if we can carry out the votes. - That's the case. [[16:01:41]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 7
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18468	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: A draft federal law amending the Federal Law on Social Assistance and the Federal Law on National Total Statistics on Social Assistance Services, together with the title and receipt in 1480 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever does this in third reading is asked for a sign. This draft law was adopted by the same majority at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is in favour of this, I would ask him to give his assent. – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 3: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Hospitals, together with the title and receipt in 1481 of the Supplements. If you agree, you can show it accordingly. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted. We'll come to the third reading. Anyone who agrees to this at third reading will be asked for a sign of approval. - Same voice behaviour. This draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. Vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Epidemic Act, including title and receipt in 1482 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. Who is doing this in third reading? – Same voting behaviour, therefore adopted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, colleagues and others on 'evidence-based corona'. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give their approval to the vote in accordance with this procedure. – That is the minority, the request is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, ladies and gentlemen, on 'The end of the obligation to make a mask after Nehammer's announcement on the ÖVP part-session'. Whoever gives permission to do so will be asked for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the return to fact-based normality. Whoever is to do so is asked for a sign accordingly. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 1483 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. – Same voting behaviour also at third reading. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 6: Draft Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the MTD Act and the Sanitary Act, including the title and entry into 1484 of the Supplements. Those who agree to this will be asked for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is adopted by a majority. Third reading. – The same voting behaviour in the third reading. The draft law was also adopted by a majority in the third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on 'Start of the care grant already with 1. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law, which amends the Civil Employment Law and the Foreign Employment Act, together with the title and receipt in 1479 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this, I may request the corresponding approval. – That is unanimous as far as I see. We'll come to the third reading. - Same voice behaviour. The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[16:05:56]] 8. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1444 and 1444, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025 and the Federal Finance Act 2022 (1485 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18669	We come to Agenda item 8. I welcome the Secretary of State. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18697	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant that the Minister of Finance itself does not participate in this debate – it is at least about the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is something like the budget for the next five years. This was only decided a few months ago, namely in November. You can see how long this budget has kept: It was supposed to last five years and has only held five months – since then it has actually been worthless. We can see how far-sighted the budgetary planning of this federal government is. It is not wrong to say that the budget is the policy cast into figures. Then let us look at the essential figures of this policy! The first: How does it look with the taxes, according to the plan of the ÖVP Green Coalition, develop over the next five years? – They rise; but not all taxes and taxes rise, but those on work and consumption. Taxation and taxation on assets and capital do not rise. That is to say, what ÖVP and Greens apparently are planning over the next five years is that taxes and taxes on work and consumption – which, in my opinion, are already too high by all experts in Austria – continue to rise, whereas taxes on capital and assets are falling in proportion. This is what the ÖVP and the Greens have to present here and also have to answer. We certainly reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is: We all know that at the moment the biggest problem for the people living in Austria is the price. We hear government parties' lip confessions, which they do not want to do anything against the cost. We're looking at the Federal Financial Framework Act, and what's in there? – There you have to say: very little. What one sees in particular from the price of this is primarily rising tax revenue. However, we do not see the measures that people urgently need in order to reduce the price. That means: Is the budget, the Federal Financial Framework Act, an appropriate answer to the cost? – You have to say: No, no, no, The third thing we look at is – because the Federal Government has announced this great as a century project and today has made an extra moment on this topic – the question: Where do we see the care reform? Do we see the care reform in this budget? - No, we don't see her. Greatly announced by the government parties: The care reform is coming, that's a century project, that's great! And if you look into the budget, which will be decided on the same day for the next five years, how much euro there is in it for this care reform, you see: exactly 0 euros. The reason we have heard in the Committee on Budgets – the Secretary of State has not yet been present in the Committee on Budgets, that is, he does not yet know this statement – is: This reform is not concrete enough! It is not precise and concrete enough that you can budget it! – It is not yet possible to evaluate them in figures, but it is obviously enough for the government parties to present something as a success, of which the Ministry of Finance itself says: We can't even calculate what that means! I'm just saying this, so that you can see in what a dishonest way the government parties are actually trying to present us with an X for a U, explaining the great care reform in the early days, even saying what it is bringing, what it costs, but the Ministry of Finance says: We're sorry, that's so unconcretely, we can't even budget it! At the end of the day we also remember one: How long will the framework for the next five years be held by what we decide today? - Half a year. In November you will have to renovate it, in November you will have to change it again, because, as we already know today, essential parts simply do not stand in it. This is not a serious budgetary policy. In fact, it is a bankruptcy declaration issued by the government there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18761	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18782	Mr President. Mr State Secretary – for the first time on the government bank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Now that you've been listening to colleagues Krainer – listen carefully – you've seen how the opposition makes politics, on which weak feet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Mr Krainer goes out and says: This government is unplanned, it has set up a budget – it is now about the Federal Finance Act and the Federal Financial Framework Act – and five months ago we decided to do so and today it is no longer holding! Now we have to do this again, this government is so unplanned! Mr Krainer, I do not know, perhaps you have missed it: Do you know when the war started in Ukraine? And do you know why this financial framework is now being changed? - Because of that! It depicts – and we have discussed everything in the Committee – what we are doing to reduce energy prices for those people who need it most. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] - That's the first one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call to the SPÖ.]] The second thing we know is that we probably have to buy gas reserves. This too is financially reflected in the fact that one can build up these gas reserves. Thirdly, we know that it also costs something if the displaced – in the meantime it is in Austria, I think, about 70 000 people – are here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This is the reason why we are changing the Federal Finance Act and the Federal Financial Framework Act here today. That's the reason – and not that the government is planless. I really ask the opposition to be done in such serious things, because some suffering is involved, which is not used as a political game ball and says: This government is unplanned! Five months ago we decided something, now we have to decide something new again, it is planless! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has also been said that the topic of care has not been appreciated. – I do not know, Mr Krainer of the SPÖ, were you not in the committee? Do you know why the topic of care is not priced? – For a very normal reason: because it does not affect the budget in 2022, but only in 2023, and anyone who makes a budget will probably know it, you can already understand it in school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Matznetter and Mr Loacker.]] As responsible for the Committee on Budgets, as chairman, I must say: Of course, it is not nice for the state to make new debts again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] This package costs us EUR 4.9 billion in expenditure, it is calculated that EUR 1.6 billion will be taken less – a total of EUR 6.5 billion. But we also know that this is necessary. We are accused of spending too much money. We from the government parties believe that this is right. In the past, the pandemic has already cost us 42 billion euros. And do you know what the success of it is? [[Abg. Cashier: Inflation is...!]] – Austria has the second largest youth unemployment, and Austria is fourth in economic growth. In 2021 we were prophesied that we would be in debt of 89 percent of GDP, and including this package that we decide on today, we are 80 percent. That is also a lot, but it has been shown that we have taken the money into our hands at the right time so that the revenue will flow again, and I hope that in the future we will once again have a slightly better budget, a surplus, due to the economic performance that is taking place, which is currently good. But as I said, No one knew that a war was coming, no one knew that a pandemic was coming, nor did anyone know. And that's why: Let's stick to the facts! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18880	Mr Matznetter spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18915	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer claimed from this pult a few seconds ago that the care reform could not be taken into account here because it is not effective in 2022. – This is incorrect. I'm actually correcting: The bill relates – if you had read the title, Mr. Deputies! – for the period up to 2025 and therefore should also, of course, include periods after 2022. The reason was therefore incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18951	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e18973	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Minister of Finance and the Federal Chancellor recently announced that the additional wage costs should be reduced and that the cold progression 2023 should also be abolished. In the case of capital income, the Minister of Finance has also announced a tax exemption, provided that a certain retention period is observed, and the Federal Government has also announced further measures to compensate for the increase in energy costs. However, I cannot find all these announcements and promises in this budget novel, which covers the period 2022 to 2025. Also, the announced additional expenditure on the care reform does not find a number of precipitation in this budget novel, although there is its own Council of Ministers and although we have already had a current hour on it. However, as we could see from the statements made in the Committee on Budgets: The project is too little concrete as that it can be budgeted. Why is that so, Minister of Finance? Are these all just announcements that will never be implemented, or is a budget presented here again, which is not true from the front to the back? The Minister of Defence announced in April of this year that the Federal Army budget should be increased to 1.5 percent of GDP by 2027. However, according to the UG 14 in this budget novel, the Austrian federal army will not receive any more euro until 2025. This is what the Federal Government's announcement policy looks like. The Minister of Finance is merely running an announcement policy, but unfortunately not a discharge policy. The energy voucher was not a master's achievement, even if many Austrians receive the 150 Euro cost compensation only in 2023. And what does the Minister of Finance do against the cost of fuel? – In the short term, the Minister of Finance will increase the fee or the donor euro: 60 euros will receive low-earning counterparts in 2023 and 40 euros in 2024. This is a price compensation of 100 euros. – This is tank once, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, don't distribute alms, but ensure that the Austrian people are given proper relief, which they also feel! We don't need any red tape vouchers. The Minister of Finance calculates in this budget innovation for the period 2022 to 2025 with additional payments of over 9 billion euros and is thus the greatest profiter of this crisis. Mr Finanzminister, finally give back to the people what you have taken away before! The immediate abolition of cold progression and a preference the reduction of the second and third levels of wage and income tax, retroactive to 1.1.2022, is a command of the hour to relieve Austrians of sustainable and noticeable burden. For the essential basic food, sales tax for the time of the crisis must be abolished at all. Taxation on taxes and energy must also be reduced immediately, in particular the oil tax and also the turnover tax. Hungary, Slovenia and Poland show you how, Minister of Finance. There the population tankes much cheaper, and what does our Minister of Finance do? – It does not make the fuel cheaper, but more expensive. The Black-Green Pendant Punishment Project CO2-Straf tax will be the fuel from 1. Make July even more expensive. The diesel privilege is also intended to be abolished by the Minister of Finance. The diesel will be expensive by 21.5 cents by 2025, and with petrol it will be 14.8 cents. Mr Finanzminister, You finally put off this penalty tax for the comrades! We will also make a request in this regard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19037	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19058	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! First of all, in response to the two previous speakers from the opposition: What is important once is what is taken into account in the budget, in particular those measures that we have taken in the last half of the year, which have already been decided by law, e.g. the elements of the second anti-trusion package or the strategic gas reserve. It is crucial that we take into account such changes in the budget under the age of time, and that is why it is serious and correct that we decide on this amendment today. The reason for this novelle – which is something you can see from the measures that these have so to speak – is the war of Russia's attack against Ukraine. It is important to me – and this is also true of Mr Fuchs’ speech – that, in all cases, rapid crisis management, which is necessary, whether it be the security of gas supply, measures against the costing, support and reception of refugees and displaced persons from Ukraine, does not forget the long-term challenges. The central challenge I see here is the climate crisis, because it must not be overlooked that due to the way greenhouse gases work, the climate crisis is only very late – even if it will only be in several decades – but the time for counter-control is now at the latest. That is, we cannot afford to ignore this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is clear to me that in a difficult phase like this one, in which one does not know how to pay the gas bill or the tanking, at least one head has to be able to solve the climate crisis more or less. Firstly, it is expected that the government will take measures to reduce the price in the short term. That's what the government is doing. Over the last few months, we have committed 4 billion euros of discharge packages – 1 percent of GDP. This concerns the compensation of costs, which is 300 euros per person or sometimes household, 150 euros of energy costs. We have lowered the amount of natural gas and electricity that is subject to the eco-electric fee – all in the order of up to 100 euros a year. In addition, contrary to what honourable Member Fuchs said, we have greatly increased the promotion of commuters, which in fact brings greater relief to those who are practically dependent on the car in order to get to work. These are measures that help all those most affected by inflation, but these are also measures that act quickly, and that is good. But of course it also has to be paid, which is why, among other things, this innovation is necessary for the federal budget. It is important to me, and now I come to the point that, in addition to these short-term relief measures, which can only dispel the cost of such an increase, these do not really fight the root of the evil, because the increased prices come from abroad, they are imported, and we can only see that the effect of these increased prices is suspended; and this is what we can do with this package – at the same time the problem at the root can be packed by freeing ourselves from fossil energy sources and fossil energy imports. This is also the case in the Anti-Treaty package, which I would like to address briefly. By the way, this is a volume of 1 billion euros, which is also quite massive: In addition, 200 million euros go into the expansion of renewable energy sources, so that the electricity no longer needs to be produced fossil – in particular PV and wind – and 600 million euros in the expansion and attraction of public transport, or are also used to ensure that the prices, which now affect the energy sector, do not also reflect the tickets. This has led to the fact that, contrary to what the Hinter-mir-Die-Sintflut Group is trying to sell, namely this term of greenflation, we are in a situation where the very opposite is the case: We have fossil inflation. The fossil prices have risen, and everything that is green and climate-friendly has partly remained the same price or, above all, has become cheaper due to the government's climate policy. We are in a situation where public transport is one of the very few goods that are not at all affected by this price. That is to say, those who have the opportunity to switch to public transport, and the possibility is extended by the Federal Government, saves something at this stage. This is due, for example, to the climate ticket. That means: In the short term, we will reduce the impact of the inflation while at the same time ensuring that we get away from it at all and are not so exposed to the inflation at all! This is what we are doing with these investments in the energy and transport transitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19120	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19141	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I have to say that this is really the first budget novel to which I am speaking, in which the Minister of Finance is not present – but good. [[Abg. Lindinger: He has a State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance!]] [[Abg. Baumgartner: Mr. State Secretary is here!]] The Budget Novel has become necessary – and I may quote – to illustrate the consequences of the Ukraine war in the 2022 budget. And since I have read the suggestion, I would like to answer with a few figures, because it has been a little impoverished: Well, a few billion more! We are talking about a deficit in 2022 of 20 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, and in addition, the back door has been left open, one packs up 10 billion euros again. So we're talking about a potential deficit in 2022 of almost 30 billion euros. Now you can expect these unimaginable high amounts – at least from my point of view, and Mr Fuchs has already done this very well – that it contains at least all the measures that are being planned in this way and which have, above all, been announced medially. The fact is not inside this novelle. Thus, the Minister of Finance not only lets 1 billion euros fall under the table as much as, for example, – and this has not yet happened – the increased expenditure on interest rates. It is also very important that interest rates now rise massively, and this is a case in which we are no longer talking about Peanuts, because that will be at least EUR 850 million to EUR 1 billion even in 2022 – has been predicted here. I mean, seriously. We just don't find that all right! You get even more money over debt, even though the revenue – and now we're on another topic again: VAT, Köst, dividends – explode. I come to the second point, which is why we cannot accept NEOS from this novel, and that is the structural measures that are simply missing. We've heard, something's going to happen, something's happening, something's happening. We have already doubted the reliability of these measures in many areas, and there is always the best example for me, because we all know that they help those who are actually in the upper incomes – there are a lot of numbers. In our view, what is really missing is the discharges of citizens, and there is also a lack of action in order to prevent further heating of inflation, but perhaps even to dampen it – another structural measure. If you look at what the ÖVP and the Greens are doing at the moment, then you could really believe that the money is being printed in the basement because these measures really will not be able to control inflation. Now, of course, the good question is: What do you do in such a hot mood? – I really don't want to admit that. Evident is one thing: The Minister of Finance is currently making a lot of money. I already mentioned it: Dividend payments, high employment, price increases, VAT – the revenue is slumping. That is why, in our view, it is important to give these more revenue back to people, but not about smaller measures, but really about structural measures that must happen now. Many people in here will know what's coming now: What is the most important structural measure at that time? – The abolition of cold progression. [[Abg. Baumgartner: The abolition of the cold progression!]] [[Congratulation and bravoruf at the NEOS.]] Thank you very much. This would be important now, and it would be important not only to announce, but to do the same. Secondly, the adjustment of the tariff level limits: That too is a very important point. Since 2009, the tariff level limits have not been increased. This would also really help taxpayers immediately. Then there's another point: What can be done against inflation? – Yes, this is, of course, something that is, in fact, a huge global issue at the moment in Europe, but of course, there are also things that we can do here in the country and which policy should also take up, in our view, is the very, very important measure of reducing the additional wage costs. Why is that so important at the moment? – Because it is simply a matter of creating a margin for the wage and collective treaty negotiations that will take place again. Why? – I would also like to explain it again: The wage-price-spirale is what we hear all the time. So, what's going on? – Wages are raised beyond a certain extent in order to, of course, allow employees to compensate for inflation in the country. But if wages are raised too high, what happens? – Then, of course, prices will rise, quite clearly. And what if prices rise? – It’s still hot on inflation. That's why: The important and most efficient step towards addressing this issue is to reduce additional wage costs in order to create scope so that this permanent looping of inflation does not come back to the meeting. And how can people be additionally relieved? – I say it again, perhaps you can help me: We must finally abolish the cold progression! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am already a bit about my speaking time, but one point is particularly important to me as a NEOS founding member: What's missing in this novel is the schools. Now we know that has just been said that the schools need around 50 million euros for the care of refugee children. At the moment, we have 30 billion euros, which are almost given to deficit, but in the UG 30, we find nothing to do with this. That is to say, the very important point that would be at our heart, namely money for schools, to help the children learn the language here, has not been found. All in all, this novel is therefore not sloppy and content enough in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19222	Mr Tursky has been reported to speak. - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19244	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. When you created the budget for this year last autumn, no one could predict how the corona situation developed, and it was possible and nobody wanted to imagine that we had a war again in Europe. At Corona, we have seen that the virus variant Omikron is highly contagious, but the pathogens are relatively mild. Therefore, thanks to God, we were able to take far-reaching opening steps and, in addition, to make most economic aid come to an end at the end of March. [[Abg. Hafenecker: They have given you the wrong speech!]] - No, I don't think so. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Even if, in view of the falling number of cases, we now look as if we were in control of Corona, we still have to take precautions for the autumn, and also be prepared for perhaps more aggressive variants. We also have to take care of this, ladies and gentlemen, in the budget. Therefore, we provide additional EUR 2.7 billion for the corona crisis management – ranging from vaccine procurement to economic aid. Second point, the Ukraine War: on the one hand enormous suffering and on the other hand, encounters amid economic recovery of the war Europe and Austria. The consequences of the attack are supply bottlenecks and a price increase in energy sources and raw materials as well as in many consumer goods. Although the economic interdependence of Austria and Russia has fallen in recent years, there is, as you know, a strong dependence of Austria on Russian gas. In the short term, we cannot replace these gas deliveries. In the medium term, however, our objective is of course to reduce these dependencies or to achieve any energy independence at all and also to increase renewable energies. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Federal Government has already decided to abolish the price increases. By 2025, we will provide a total of EUR 4 billion for the discharge of Austrians, from the cost compensation to energy costs to the reduction of energy taxes and the relief of commuters, as decided in the last plenary session. Of course, 4 billion euros are a huge sum. This relieves the people of our country, but naturally also burdens the budget. It is precisely this discharge that is now also shown in the present budget. However, the measures to ensure gas supply should also be shown in the budget: the acquisition of a strategic gas reserve, which you have already decided on, with EUR 1.6 billion, but also to be prepared for all events, additional EUR 5 billion. However, the budget innovation not only takes into account the so-called additional expenditure and revenue, but also the current economic forecast of the Wifo. As you know, last autumn the Wifo spoke of an economic growth of 4.9 percent plus for 2022. This forecast now had to be revised to 3.9 percent. Only this 1% costs us 1 billion euros. The criticism that has already been expressed in plenary today that certain planned reform projects are not to be depicted in this novel is not valid. The federal financial framework leaves no room for political speculation. It would probably not be serious to draw up a detailed budget prognosis without knowing every detail. All we can say with certainty is shown in this novel. What we can thank God is an absolutely positive development in the labour market. The number of employees is increasing steadily, while unemployment is gradually falling, hopefully significantly below the level of early pandemic by 2025. This recovery on the labour market and the strong demand for consumer goods will, I hope, significantly relax the budgetary situation over the next few years. The debt ratio will improve to 72.1 percent of GDP by 2025. We should also have a balanced budget and a zero deficit. All these calculations are, of course, also based on facts, but also the view of the international credit rating agencies is right. The three leading credit rating agencies continue to assess Austria's creditworthiness with best marks. This responsible budgetary policy can and will continue, and we will be well prepared for future crises. Although these are very troubled times at present, we are in any case well equipped and prepared for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19295	Mrs Baumgartner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19317	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially for our colleagues Krainer from SPÖ: Why is this budget novel? – Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz and Mr State Secretary have explained it, but I say it again – that is, the fourth time, perhaps it is more understandable –: No one in autumn 2021 knew how Corona developed, and no one in autumn 2021 knew there would be a war in Ukraine. Your argument is not fair, but populist, and that is not all right. [[Abg. Greiner: But right!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Why does all of this affect our budget? – Because the Federal Government has put in place measures to respond to this development. These measures relieve people and businesses in Austria. The eco-social tax reform has already been planned in the budget, but further redundancies had to be made to cover Austrians in this crisis period. First of all, it was necessary to combat the cost of rising energy prices and to relieve people of a total of EUR 4 billion by means of effective measures. In view of the fact that the measures are either not known or do not want to be true, and that they are always really scribbled or not perceived by the opposition, I would like to mention some redundancies. There is the suspension of the eco-current fee, there is a cost compensation for particularly vulnerable groups, there is also an energy cost compensation, then the pendler fee is increased by 50 percent by June 2023 and the pendlereuro quadruple, there are price reductions in public transport and there is fuel refund. In addition, there is the Investment Plan for renewable energy. – This is not a matter, and I do not know why all this is always spoken small or not perceived. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Secondly, more disbursements are needed in order to reduce the impact of the Ukraine crisis and to provide for it through the acquisition of a gas supply. The inclusion of displaced people and the associated increase of the foreign disaster fund – all these are funds that have not been budgeted, and therefore innovation is necessary. Thirdly, Corona's not over yet. We do not know what to expect in autumn, and we also need to draw up a crisis plan for autumn. The funds for short-time work will also be used. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Of course, the focus is on returning to a solid and sustainable budget policy, but it depends significantly on the further course of the war in Ukraine and the associated economic development. Despite this conflict, however, the Wifo's economic assessment is a very favourable one, and we are also on the average in the international comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19372	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned: Today, we are adopting the Federal Financial Framework Act and a new Federal Finance Act. That is to say, one tries – that has already been explained – to accept out-of-tour budgetary burdens, of which one has not yet known in the autumn, one tries to present them somehow, and that is basically so far in order. But now the stairs are coming: On Monday, we had a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, where we discussed all this, in which these cornerstones were also discussed, and the care reform is not welcomed, Mr Obernosterer. And this is not only about 2022, but – you see it quite exactly in the girl we got from the Federal Ministry of Finance – it is about 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025. And if you make yourself here and say that the care billions will not be effective until 2023, then that is something that is very much discussed here and needs to be found in the documents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is already a massive problem with all the appreciation for the caregivers, if we only speak of appreciation and now wait forever for a long time until this recognition and appreciation comes to them, namely, 2023. And as I said, if there is to be a real appreciation and a bonus to be paid, then we want to have it the same way and not just 2023, because the Corona crisis was difficult enough for this target group, and the years before it anyway. This job is really hard work, and that is why we also demand that care for the pension be included in the heavy-worker scheme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you, Mr Obernosterer, come here and talk about low youth unemployment in Austria, I say: Yes, that is true and that is good, but we have also had important instruments budgeted with 0 euros, which would have been good and massive, such as the training guarantee until 25. However, you abolished this with the FPÖ and it is budgeted with 0 euros. This training guarantee would, however, give opportunities to those young people who are still in youth unemployment, including in Austria, and integrate them into the labour market. That would also be very important to us. One point that is also reflected in these budget laws is the topic of suicide prevention. Suicide prevention is a theme that is massively estimated and extracted from the taboo corner. For this suicide prevention there are in the next years – up to 2025 – 8.6 million euros. That's far too little! We are not only talking about the young people – where we see studies every week and hear experts who say that in a school class on average every fourth person is thinking of killing himself several times – we are talking not only about the children and young people, but also about the women, who are simply under massive loads, who have lost their jobs, we are also talking about single men who have had no one in the crisis and no longer know where to turn. For all of them, for the prevention of suicide, 8.6 million euros are allocated to several years. We believe that this is too little and that we actually need to do more in the prevention of suicide, and we need to help people in acute situations, so that they do not stay on the track.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19454	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19475	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! If we are discussing the amendment to the 2022 budget and the 2025 financial framework, it is already surprising that the opposition politicians are going out here and always claim that it is too little that it is not everything. – It is all in this novelle, which has already been decided and which we have agreed accordingly. That's why it's so important and right. Two years ago, the opposition came out and said: Too little and far too late! And now? – As you do, it's wrong, so I don't understand now. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Then do it right!]] It is true that, in this tense situation, with the war of attacks on Russia and the thus increased inflation, it is really important that many packages could be decided – packages for families who have to get deeper into their pockets during weekly shopping, the workers who depend on the car and have to get deeper into the bag through the increased diesel prices, to the economy that has to struggle with the bottlenecks in the raw materials, and not least the farmers who have it very difficult with the enormously increased farm resources prices. This federal government and this coalition have immediately decided on discharge packages. There was the first discharge package with almost 2 billion euros, together with the second, there were almost 4 billion euros, with which people in Austria were relieved. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to take a closer look at this: There were 300 euros for vulnerable groups – these are the compensation beneficiaries, the unemployed, the minimum insurance beneficiaries –, the energy cost balance has come to the house with the post – it has just arrived in the last days and weeks – there has been a reduction in the natural gas and electricity levy up to the increase in the penalty rate by 50 percent and the quadruple of the pendlereuros. In addition, last year's eco-social tax reform, the largest tax relief in the Second Republic with a volume of 18 billion euros – with a volume of 18 billion euros! – and a wide range of measures which are also targeted: from the reduction in income tax levels one, two and three, with the social security bonus, support for families, the increase in family bonus and the added amount of children to the regional climate bonus and the climate ticket, which is intended to promote public transport in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! It is this federal government and it is this coalition that has made these measures possible, which have set these relief steps for all those who need the support in particular, for all those who work, and for all those who have performance and performance and who also work accordingly for that country. That was the task, that is the task, and for that this federal government and this coalition will fight in the next few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can still speak a few short words about agriculture – because today the new Minister for Agriculture was praised: A great deal of thanks goes to the excretioned Federal Minister Elli Köstinger. In recent years it has been able to implement a great deal for us farmers, starting from the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, which have been concluded positively, on the designation of origin, which is for ratification with the European Commission, to the office for unfair business practices, and on an energy and price compensation, which is still in the final negotiations. – That was a really excellent work. I am already looking forward to working with the new Minister for Agriculture Norbert Totschnig for farmers in this country. He belongs to a federal government that shows a real commitment every day to relieve the people of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19524	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19545	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'm sorry to have called in at your first speech, but you're not that common to me. I promise, however, that I will soon complement my Panini album with the members of the government and then also pick up the new party name below, so that I can be up-to-date again. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's government reform has shown one thing, namely the inability of the coalition parties to govern this country. [[Abg. Lindinger: Our Federal Government has acted!]] You can see this inability documented in time: You can't even find people who want to be Secretary of State or Minister in this Republic. The Chancellor does not even know that his own ministers are resigning, then one is still talking about that being planned, and in the end one comes to it, actually everything is going wrong, which can go wrong. I listened to Mr Lindinger, who spoke before me. When he says: Well, we couldn't predict how Corona was developing, and we couldn't predict that a war was breaking out, and that's why we have to throw everything around now! Then I'll stop you from always letting us believe that you can foresee everything. [[Abg. Lindinger: But we did!]] They also foresaw what will happen when everyone gets vaccinated, and so on. Your calculation models seem to have been there. Now you want to tell us that you didn't assume that there will still be Corona in the autumn. It's all a diletation on the highest level. Mr Lindinger, you must make this accusation happen. [[Abg. Lindinger: We're not just talking, we're going to do it!]] Another thing: As far as the price is concerned – which is really the most massive problem that is just beginning and is going to catch us in the course of the year – of course, the crisis in Ukraine is pouring oil into the fire once again if it is formulated in this way. But look at it – and that's the jumping point – when the price has begun: She started with your corona measures, she started when you deliberately locked up businesses when you banned healthy people from working. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] That's where the price has gone. This shows Your failure and that you have to answer! Look at the Ukraine crisis: This too is a reason for the price to move forward. But you are on the way to wood with your sanctions policy, because you should have negotiated, not sanction. There are many international examples, many of which show that sanctions – if they reach out at all – are always too late. Even there you are on the way to the wood. What are you doing in addition? – You just look at the fact that Mr. Finanzminister, who is now weakening, is getting richer and richer. With each filling, the Minister of Finance is on it with 50 percent tax. From 120 euros of spray bill, 60 euros immediately flow into the pocket of the Minister of Finance. They increase the NOVA. They burden families who want to buy a car so they can drive their children. They're taxing commuters. With the NoVA, of course, you also increase the prices for commercial vehicles quite massively. The Economic and Social Committee is still taking this away. So I hope sometime in the Chamber of Commerce will also be recognized on which trip you are on the way from the ÖVP. What are you doing? – Come now You will also have a CO2 tax which will greatly increase energy and fuel prices. If you're hot with gas, it's at least 220 euros, for people who're hot with oil, 290 euros. That's what the Energy Agency has calculated. Then you come and wake up with 150 Euro vouchers. In principle, this is actually pure cynicism: They want to feed people with alms. What you're doing here is unbearable and really difficult to criticize! Furthermore, let us look at what the Wifo has calculated. The Wifo has told you that your climate bonus will not take hold. If you import the CO2 tax if you go through the CO2 price, the inflation will continue to increase. We don't say that's what Wifo says. I would also have liked to hear a reply from you. Listen to what Mr. Landeshuppmann Stelzer – perhaps someone in the ÖVP will be finer if one mentions a head of state – says: “If Germany is already discussing the extension of nuclear and coal power plants, it is well advised to postpone new loads.” That's what Stelzer says. What's the ÖVP doing? - She's driving the Green Madness Strip. They are in the middle of the ecomarxist, asocial tax reform rather than just in the middle. If I come to the conclusion now and look at what my colleague's head – unfortunately, God has obviously just lunch break – says as the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, that it is absolutely necessary to suspend this CO2 tax now, because it would be cynical to lift this levy too, then there is actually a lot together. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP, you are unable to act – inability to do so because you are exclusively concerned with your own scandals and with the cover-up of these scandals. In principle, we will now help you a little bit, perhaps still on the horse. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It's a nail sample. I'm already excited how you want to scratch this curve again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19712	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Stark has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19737	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! If you follow today's debate, you do it. It is difficult now and then, especially if, for example, Mr Krainer's voice with supposed seriality explains what the government should not have known in November. He then speaks with a serious voice, but makes the unscrupulous attempt to really bring it to the people. This is a distortion of reality that cannot be allowed to stand. It goes on like this: In this House, verbal attacks are being made on the government with the only objective of harming the government. All of this – as with colleagues Hafenecker – then comes the accusation of abuse of power with a single goal, namely to return to power itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply transparent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I join colleagues Gödl, who said this morning that the government is delivering. I would like to stress this, Mr President: The government supplies. The new Federal Financial Framework Act, which we have to adopt today, is also a result of this. The government supplies in times of crisis, which is now in the context of the price of compensation and tax reform. This has the effect of giving a minimum pensioner an entire pension per year. The government supplies in pandemic times, for two years or even longer, ladies and gentlemen. In the international comparison we are in the top ranking. No one needs to talk us bad. The government provides sensitive areas, such as care. That this care reform is not yet included in the Federal Financial Framework Act is perfectly normal – you all know the democratic and parliamentary processes – that can't be at all. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, the change has persisted, we have learned this in recent years, in which we have had month after month to respond to new challenges, as last in the Ukraine crisis. Today we have launched the care reform. Not all legal requirements have been implemented in this respect, but it is on its way and it will also find its precipitation in the legal standards. This is a perfectly normal parliamentary process, which you are now criticizing. On the other hand, we all know that care needs our help urgently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also clear that we can expect an increase in GDP on the one hand, but on the other hand we have major labour market problems, because we have too few specialists serving the economy and ensuring the necessary upturn. Nevertheless, I ask You are here today for your consent to these two legal standards, to the Federal Finance Act and to the Federal Financial Framework Act, because these respond in an appropriate way to the change we now have to achieve. It is clear that this will not be the last change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19797	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19818	Madam President. Dear Mr Hofrat! – I find it much more impressive to be Hofrat at 34 years of age than to be with 34 years of State Secretary, only a few people do. [[Abg. Obernoster: You're a little cynical today!]] - High house! Mr Stark has explained why the care billion is not inside. I would, however, like to comment on what the responsible staff member of the Ministry of Finance has said in the committee. It has said that the announcements for these care billions are so vague that one would not have known what sub-divided and into which category one should have enrolled, and that is why it is not yet inside. [[Abg. Obernoster: That's...! She didn't say that!]] The government is famous that it is always making such great tax reforms and that it relieves people so much. Citizens should be grateful for everything they get from the government. However, once we look at the facts, there is little left of government marketing, because the Minister of Finance is so brutal as never before. If you compare the first quarter of 2022 with the first quarter of 2021, this means in German: in sales tax plus 22.9 percent, in wage tax plus 7.1 percent, in corporate tax plus 60.7 percent, in income tax plus 28 percent and in capital income tax plus 46.9 percent. This means in euro: In just a quarter of a year, the Minister of Finance took more taxes by 3.6 billion euros than in the same period of the previous year. What do the citizens now get from it? – 150 euros of energy voucher and perhaps a little cheaper train ticket. Thank you, thank you! So that's the way the state works: The Minister of Finance throws out the money with both hands – by the way, by the way, the Tyrolean Government knows where the money will be broken, we could also discuss – and the people must earn what they have to suppress, but in the sweat of their faces. If someone works a little more, social security and the financial office will come and take half of the money – as fast as it goes. While the AMS chief of the media says that the companies are now balancing their normal fluctuations with the short-time work, the government is extending the short-term working arrangements until the end of the year. There is tax money for something the experts of the labour market say it doesn't even need it, it's counterproductive. Sure, that's from the Minister of Labour, but of course the Minister of Finance has to release the money because he has to explain it. Where does the reduction of taxes remain? Where's the discharge? When will the cold progression be abolished so that wages and salaries will at least retain their purchasing power? Who benefits most if the electronics industry now has a 5 percent KV degree? – The Minister of Finance – if he were there – has more increase than the workers. It stirs up the entrepreneurs who have to pay for it and the workers who do not get it if they only have to feed the Minister of Finance and they themselves get the money between their fingers. The government is talking about discharge and the hand-fixed figures show: The government expresses the citizens like lemons. In the meantime, this also keeps a lot of people in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19868	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19893	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been mentioned before, and I don't know about the opposition anymore. It's always called: The Federal Government is reacting too slowly to the crises!, There is too little support!, you do nothing!, and then the Federal Government is submitting a budget in which there is support in which there is response to the crises, for example with a gas supply, and then it says: Oh, it's a budget again! Didn't you know five months ago? There's another change! It costs too much, I've heard here. – Decide what you want! This budget is a product of a crisis that we all have not foreseen, and I believe there are a lot of measures inside that we simply need in this crisis: a gas supply, a budget for measures against the cost to reduce the burden, and many other measures, including those - Mr Schwarz mentioned - which are about keeping public transport cheap and further expanding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've addressed the gas supply. This has always been left to the market: the market, the market forces, ensuring that gas is stored. The state, politics has so far had no way at all to influence somehow how much gas is stored. We see now: In such a crisis, we have a problem because there are no incentives to store gas. We have therefore responded with a strategic gas reserve decided here in order to have gas available in the absolute emergency. This budget now counts at 1.6 billion euros – yes, also in the federal financial framework – and there is, as it were, a mandate to go over it. The Federal Minister announced today that these 12.5 terawatt hours will be increased to a quantity sufficient for two winter months. A good news is that it should be increased with non-Russian gas. The good thing is: We see that we are already starting with diversification – away from the Russian gas – and that is what we want. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we're not going to do is remove the CO2 tax. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Hafenecker's request from the FPÖ, who wants to do so. He cites the Wifo, of course he does not quote correctly, because the Wifo chief has clearly and clearly said that he strongly recommends maintaining this measure. Why? - Because it is socially balanced, socially fair. In your request, you have predicted that by the CO2 price there will be extra costs of 220 euros if you heat a family house with gas. If you look at this now – we take the lowest climate bonus, which is 100 euros per adult –: If two adults and two children live in this house, the 300 euros will receive climate bonus, but according to your bill pay 220 euros more. If you control basic methods of calculation, you will notice: This family has 80 euros more at the account – and this only applies if it lives in Vienna, because everywhere else you get more money. [[Abg. Lord: Except in Vienna!]] – Yes, except in Vienna, because public transport has also been so well developed here and it is therefore fair that there, where public transport is not yet so well developed, one gets more climate bonus. But I can already imagine why the FPÖ is against the climate bonus: because it is in fact a redistribution measure from top to bottom, because poorer people benefit from it more than richer people – and that is not your clients. [[Abg. Deimek: Our clients deserve less than you do! Look at the parents of the Meri Disoski...!]] We know that the top 10 percent of the income earners pay four times more in this pot, but get the same out. If you have more money, more income, you need more electricity, more gas, you have bigger houses and a larger CO2 footprint. Her much-Quoted little man also has a smaller CO2 footprint and therefore benefits disproportionately from the climate bonus and the CO2 price. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, if you're asking, Well, what does this help the poor minimum pensioner in the family house who heats with oil or gas? – We have decided, together with the countries, a very special support action. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Freeze for peace!]] Do you know how much promotion is given to get out of their oil and gas heating? – 100 percent. She gets the whole changeover when she's in the bottom five of her incomes. [[Abg. Hafenecker: But first she has to freeze for peace, doesn't she?! That's what you've been asking for!]] The climate bonus – together with these socially just promotions – leads to exactly this socio-ecological transformation that we need to get out of fossil energy imports at all and finally become independent of Russian gas – but FPÖ probably does not want it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e19989	Mr Hafenecker spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20014	Madam President. Mr Hammer just assumed that I - – the colleague of the Greens – had said I had mis-quoted. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: I didn't say anything!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to correct what I have said. I said: The Wifo has said that climate bonus will be of no use and CO2 taxation will remain an inflation driver. I now quote literally and correctly: In the APA of 17.2.2022, Mr Wifo-chef said: “The CO2 burden due from July on fossil energies in Austria will also drive inflation – despite climate bonus.” So the assumption that I have mis-quoted anything, I reject it and actually correct it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20054	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20076	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is a report from the Committee on Budgets, and there was something particularly remarkable: It was remarkable that the Federal Government has had to admit that the tax and tax burden we currently have in Austria has been at the highest level ever since and ever. This is remarkable, therefore, because they have always blamed the Social Democrats – and see, there is an ÖVP government with German Chancellors, with ÖVP ministers, and then this case occurs. We have learned, and the order to the Federal Government in § 28 of the Federal Budget Act is that all revenue and all expenditure that are expected to be included in a federal financial law – all. Mr Lindinger and Mr Stark, the Federal Government adopted a so-called care reform on 12.5. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ribo]] Inside Then stand at 520 million euros, the others I did not find. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner]] I made the effort to look up: How is this illustrated in this Federal Proposal and in the Federal Financial Framework Act?, and I have asked myself the question: Where would you have to picture that? In the Global Budget 21, in the Global Budget 24 or in the global budget 44? And if you look at it, you will notice everywhere that the amounts there will be lower in 2025 – lower! That is to say, the Federal Government has introduced, in the fields where it would be necessary, fiscal limits which do not achieve this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, one realizes that one speaks with a split tongue, that one announces it and does the other. We're still quite short: We have to deal with announcers and enforcement forces, which will become quite clear. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Government: If you want to do this, if you need to implement a care reform, you need to give more money to the communities in the GB 44, because only there does the money reach people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20130	Next speaker: Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20151	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In twelve budget groups, the Federal Government makes adjustments in its government proposal on a federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025 and the Federal Finance Act 2022, but not in the fields of 01, law and security, and especially in the area of subdivision 14, military matters. Many Members of the Government have spoken here of a crisis that Europe is now facing as a major challenge, but the government refuses to take the right action against it and also to initiate budgetary development in terms of military defence. That is why I can allow myself to bring to this law in 1485 an amendment by Mr Robert Laimerand Dr Reinhard Eugen Böschein. I would like to explain this amendment in the broad outlines: It is intended, in particular, to cover the area of law and security, and to increase the budget in 2022 to EUR 3 billion in 14 military matters, to EUR 3.7 billion in 2023, to EUR 4 billion in 2024 and EUR 5 billion in 2025. We are firmly convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the Members of the Government Party will vote in favour of this amendment. I should like to remind you that in the 2030 report, this is a report that comes from the country defence unit and has not been invented by the opposition – clearly the following has been identified – I quote: "Without urgently necessary investment, the bra can no longer protect the Austrian population. This requires a significant increase in the defence budget with a balance between personnel, operation and investment. Our ÖBH needs at least 1% of GDP in order to fulfil the protection operation, and for the defence of conventional opponents, 2% of GDP would be required, and there is also the international standard." I can remind the members of the ÖVP of the statements of your Federal Chancellor, who has clearly said that military matters are also taken into account in the development of the budget. I would remind you of what your Minister of Labour, Mrs Tanner, has said, which has gone into detail and clearly announced that a budget increase will have to take place in the next few years to meet the needs of the Austrian federal army. And in this crisis situation in which we are, in this war in Europe, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the Austrian federal army. I also remind the Green Members of the statements of their Federal President Van der Bellen, who has already said in 2018: "In view of current budgetary developments, a red line will be exceeded in the coming years, namely the willingness to use. Missing resources endanger not only the performance of tasks, but also the lives of the soldiers in their operations.” Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, with this request we want to support your announcements, your policies, and therefore I firmly believe that this request will find the majority here. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20466	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and is also distributed and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20493	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate sisters! We are talking about an adjustment of the budget, and in this whole debate, with the exception of my group, there is no political group at all worthy of mention to think about how entrepreneurs are doing. And if we are now dealing with the question of how we can directly relieve employees and workers, there is a problem that remains unresolved – it has already been mentioned – when we talk about cold progression. That means: If we now have wage statements in the coming months, which mean 5, 6, 7 percent of wage increases, and at the same time companies that have a very high proportion of personnel costs in total costs, this means that these companies are so under pressure that they have to increase their product prices, their service prices. This means that for those people who have previously received a salary increase, that what the Minister of Finance has not stabilized to them will then be eaten up again by the higher prices. This is a so-called wage-price spiral. This can be done on the national side by significantly reducing the additional wage costs – and we want NEOS. This does not mean, however, with a quarter or half a percentage point, but in a bidigital area. You have to figure this out, you have to make a serious statement, but it needs a clot and not a clap. This cannot be found in the budget, as nothing is included. What the government is currently doing is that it comes with a 0.5-liter Pet mineral water bottle when the whole house is in flames instead of really calling the fire brigade. It takes a real motivation to cut the additional wage costs. Little surprising, we would begin NEOS by significantly reducing the contributions from the Chamber of Commerce. There is a board sitting on a lot of money that it spends not for its members, but only for its officials and for its memberships. This is painful, and that would be the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20526	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20548	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! We discuss the amendment to the Federal Financial Framework Act 2022 to 2025. Does this novel take account of the problems people are currently facing? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] What problems do I mean? – I take out two burning things: the extremely rising – that is, so much rising that a third of households can no longer afford their lives – cost of living, eating and electricity. We're talking about 1.5 million people at risk of poverty, and the bitter thing about it: We speak of 390 000 children at risk of poverty. Second problem that burns: the miscarriage. The staff goes on the street, is bitterly disappointed, left alone, frustrated and burned out. When is there a reform that deserves this name? Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard from the representatives of the government groups: Everything is on track, everything is in the best order, the care reform is coming. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, why is this care reform not budgeted, why is it not awarded? Explain this to the care staff on the street! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How are the employees doing? - They're not doing well. [[Call the Greens: Good!]] They say: Yes, we have made a discharge package of 4 billion euros, but that only covers 20 percent. What about the remaining 80 percent? What's going on? – The workers are particularly affected by this crisis. Dear colleagues, look at the real wage losses! We don't expect to lose as much real wages this year as we have since 1955. For 67 years, we have had to deal with this, and what happens on the part of the government? – The Minister of Finance is not even present in this debate, that is very unfortunate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do you reject our requests for the discharge of workers in the Budget Committee? Why are you doing this? – Because your donors and donors are more important to you. They lower the food. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Sage Please don't do that for the workers, because they have nothing of it. They do nothing for the group of workers, nothing for consumers, and this group pays 85 percent of our taxes. You have nothing left for them, but for the big donors very well. The balance doesn't fit at all. You really have to take the facts seriously and not wipe away from the table all the time! It is obvious that the ÖVP is in crisis mode: permanent ministerial change, poor pandemic management, intransparency, corruption accusations. You have chosen the motto: Take the poor and give to the rich! – Unfortunately, that won't happen. Do not support your big donors and big corporations, but do something for the workers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20615	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20647	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have been talking all day about why this federal government does not bring anything together. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Yes, exactly! Please tell us!]] The interesting thing is that Members will always be sent out to justify this. I made an actual correction to my colleague, Mr Obernoster, who said: We cannot include the care reform because it only works in 2023. – So it was in his speech concept that he got. Dear Gabriel Obernosterer, so that you can better assess how this government deals with its own members of government, I would like to draw your attention to your own federal government paper on care reform – unfortunately I haven't had it yet, otherwise I would have kept it right before you. [[Keeping a document in height]] There you will find on page 2 measures for the care profession: “For the years 2022 and 2023, the federal government makes a total of 520 million euros available.” – End of the literal quote. [[Abg. Obernoster: So what? So what? And now?]] They not only send you here to decide by a majority, they send you out with documents of speech, in which the fact is also wrongly claimed: We do not need to take account of this because there are no specific numbers, especially none for 2022. – This is actually inconceivable, so you have to proceed once! [[Abg. Obernoster: When will it be effective?]] You have to make yourselves and defend it, instead of agreeing with us, you have to make a new request for a new one so that we can get better staff. Mr Brunner seems to have already taken this consequence. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you're so upset: Do you remember Mr Brunner's predecessor? - That was Gernot Blümel. That was the one who presented us with a budget in which the six zeros were missing because he forgot millions. [[Abg. Baumgartner: Krainer has before...!]] Mr Taschner is available when it comes to understanding what one billion in care means, that is, nine zeros are missing in the maculature you decide today by your majority. Don't you ever accuse colleagues of criticizing Krainer, which didn't last five months! They're getting better and better: The 520 million euros are already missing in the current budget. They decide on the macularity. There we don't need five months, that's 5 minutes, dear Jacob Black, and you're lifting up your most valued ones from the seats. That's really not how it is, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20739	1 There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the vote immediately. - Well, that's what's signaling me. This means that we can vote on the draft law in 1444 and 1444 of the supplements. To this end, Members Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Robert Laimer, and colleagues have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Debates of the European Parliament Amendment concerning Article 1. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, colleagues and colleagues on 'Preventing energy poverty - abolishing CO2 tax'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:29:05]] 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1441, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Stock Exchange Act 2018, the Securities Supervisory Act 2018 and the Capital Market Act 2019 are amended (1459 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1445, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Federal Act on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) 2019/1238 on a Pan-European Private Pension Product (PEPP) and amending the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the PRIIP Voluntary Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016 and the Consumer Protection Act (1460 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20843	We shall now proceed to the next item on the agenda. It is points 9 and 10 on which the debates will be conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Maximilian Lercher is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20873	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a federal law that amends the Stock Exchange Act, the Securities Supervisory Act and the Capital Market Act. In principle, I can say that we will go along with the first item to be discussed during this debate, and our group will agree. On the second point, we will not go along, and I should like to justify that. This is something that is now symptomatic of our system: A capital and risk product is sold as a pension provision product. I believe that Austria would have the task of working at European level to ensure that there is not a force for risk products, but that state security systems will be strengthened again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is these security systems that are under democratic control, and only those - we now see this in the face of the terrible war - that can give the population security in real times of crisis. Social democracy is therefore ready to introduce a system change in this area in order to re-write the rules: We need to discuss whether sub-sectors of the economy do not also need to be non-profit-making. We need to discuss in energy and transport questions whether we do not reorganise certain economic areas, because only in this way the logic of profit for the few can be broken, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This logic of profit for the few is also so massively increasing the pressure. If we do not want to recognise that we have financial systems in Europe today and also an economic policy that is no longer the focus of many, then we will not continue in the development of our country, our continent. I think we need this courage to realize that we need to rewrite the rules with all that is happening now. We must distribute profits in such a way that he arrives at those who make daily efforts – and not with those who already possess so much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is a matter of having the courage to intervene and change where we can, we owe it to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20940	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e20964	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! What is the point of these agenda items? It has been mentioned very briefly here, in principle, that it is about implementing an EU directive on investment firms or credit institutions and will also contribute to the recovery of capital markets after the Covid crisis. It is a matter of simplification and debureaucratisation, and it is also about strengthening the capital market. Mr Lercher, I have listened to you: First of all, I think that it is no contradiction to strengthen state pension systems, but at the same time to strengthen the capital market. Especially in times of low interest rates or no savings interest rates and high inflation, for the population, the purchase of shares – which you so defy – is certainly a positive alternative or an addition to pension provision. Strengthening the capital market – and I would also like to take the opportunity to make a plea here – is also very important for the Austrian economy. Many of these companies, listed on the stock exchange, not only make profits – which is important, I believe; I hope we agree – but they also provide thousands of thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs in this country. This must also be said at this point, because without these large companies on the stock market, much would not be possible. They need capital, not only from the big investors, but it is important that small and medium-sized investors participate in it and, for example, participate in the profits. If I have a share of a solid company and this company issues a dividend – that is, the profit is distributed – then I can also participate as a small shareholder. This should also be seen positively and strongly supported by this aspect of the economic location. In particular, it is important for young, innovative companies that capital is made available, because this cannot be done by the state alone, and we need these young and innovative companies, including in the field of SMEs. There too, we should do more and make it more attractive that money be brought into the economy through the capital market. This also attracts the location and can thus at the end of the day secure the prosperity in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Assemble Please do not always ask the capital market, the stock exchange, securities such as shares or corporations! Instead, let us see that we create good conditions so that companies can make profits and as many as possible participate in these profits.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21012	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21034	We have therefore reached a report from the Financial Committee. What's going on in the Financial Committee? This one is very common, it's a lot of work, but what about it in plenary? What is being debated and voted here? – Today, there are two implementations of EU legislation, i.e. no government's own ideas. [[Call the FPÖ:Well, that's it!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] We do not only miss our own initiatives today – we have missed them for many months, not to say for years! It is unfortunate: They're not working. Look This is exactly what you're looking at: You do too little, you don't put any templates in the committees – or aren't you there? What, on the other hand, does the opposition do? . We make numerous applications to the most burning problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Worm: That's right, Franz!]] What happens to these applications? – They will be postponed, they will all be postponed. What does that mean? – You are being shoved, that is, the government fractions are sinking our constructive requests and nothing happens again. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Who says they're constructive?]] – They’re constructive, which concerns the problems you don’t see, and you should be ashamed of that! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] Unfortunately, we have already cut off the increased cost of living and problems in the care sector without results when we spoke about the Budget Committee. But what else happens? What about the announced transparency package? 307 629 signatures for popular desire: Where are the measures? Where do you see something that happens in this regard? The ÖVP says it doesn't fail, the Greens say it doesn't fail – please, what will it fail to do? Who is it that nothing goes on? For two and a half years there has not even been a presentation, no proposal. Now there's a paper, but no round package. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government has no objective, no plan, no orientation. There is said to be a working group that should have prepared 99 proposals, says the Minister for Finance – which we cannot now question – but where are the proposals? Do we know them? - No, we don't know them. Are they covered by official secrecy, or what? How's it going now? Do something at last, do you have anything to do with it? Or will you continue to have working groups draw up proposals that no one can then know? Will there continue to be a group that is monitoring inflation rather than taking immediate action against exorbitant inflation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] If this crisis mode continues – on average, there is a new declaration of government every two months, the ministers disappear into one or the other direction – if this continues, it is more honest to open the way for new elections! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21118	Next speaker: Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21139	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We decide today that Mr Greiner has already done it properly, especially in the implementation of EU directives. The first package, the EU Directive with the bulky name 2021/338, was called in Brussels almost lovingly Covid Quick Fix Package. The name promises much more than is actually decided. In fact, there are rather smaller points in the regulatory framework concerning investment firms. The second implementation is about the PEPP full-time law, a bulky term, but PEPP means nothing but Pan-European private pension product. As so many colleagues in Social Democracy have been reported as speakers and the group has voted against in the Financial Committee, I must make it clear, first and foremost, that the PEPP is, of course, a product of private pension provision; that is what the name says. This is prescribed, you have already said it yourself, by an EU regulation. If you pass this law, does that mean that you somehow like private pension insurance? - No, I don't. It will also not force the third pillar of pension provision, because the present draft law simply comes from an EU regulation. It needs an accompanying law, and in this accompanying law only supervision is regulated. Finally, we can briefly clarify the green attitude before anything else is claimed, Mr Einwallner. In fact, we also think it is more of a mistake that the third pillar is even more bloating in uncertain times like now. This is perhaps interesting for insurance companies, but we do not believe that it is a useful social policy or economic policy objective. For social security, for sustainability and for secure pensions now and in the future – Mr. Loacker must certainly swallow very hard now – only the statutory pension system with the payment procedure ensures. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21185	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21207	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Yeah, I think it's a little worrying, too. and colleagues before me have already said this: It is nice that you are present today, on the first day, and are following the debate, but I am very sorry that the Minister for Finance is not here. We are debating the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is supposed to set a decisive course for the next few years, and the Minister of Finance is not here. I've been wondering why he's not here in the afternoon. Maybe it's a little bit on the speaker list. He probably saw that three Vorarlbergers were on the list of speakers again, and that was the last time he was so bad for him because he had to stand up for the debate about the Economic Federation in Vorarlberg. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] He didn't take the chance back then, and he sent you here today. Perhaps you will provide some information or have special skills on the issue of ÖVP corruption in the federal states. You are, as we have heard today, from the office of Chief of State Platter. There may also be an exchange of experience with Mr Brunner on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now dealing with a law with a very bulky name. Mrs Tomaselli has already said that a federal law establishing a federal law on the effect of the regulation on a pan-European private pension product is being adopted. Just as complicated as this item on the agenda is formulated, so complicated and complex are the products behind it. It is also one of the problems that the consumer can no longer see exactly what is behind these products. I think that's dangerous. Although we are now trying to give the FMA as many competences as possible to create this transparency and to lay down rules to ensure that these products become consumer-friendly as possible, they are not. We have already criticized the regulation. Just one example: In these pension documents, the notices of termination are impossible. They are totally out of line with the reality of life. It's so long notice periods. If the life situation changes by divorce, income loss or whatever, then you pick these products and you don't get rid of them easily. There is a need to find a regulation that regulates this at least as much as life insurance that can be terminated annually, so that you can get out again. Mrs Tomaselli has already defined a little ahead of time the SPÖ's position. Yes, we are critical of private pension provision, and that is right because the state pension system is simply the best and most social thing there is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here in the house, of course, we are the force that strongly opposes the speculation of pension contributions. There's no such thing as the SPÖ. We will always fight against it, and we will do so now and here in this law, in this regulation. It makes sense to resist even small steps so as not to go in the wrong direction. The Austrian state pension system is good and safe, and we don't let it get sick either. Now I am making a trailer for the next speaker, because now is Mr Loacker, who has been doing nothing but misrepresenting the Austrian pension system for years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21270	Mr Loacker, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21293	Thank you for the intro. – Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Yes, I would have liked to ask Magnus Brunner a little more about the business association. In Tyrol there is more about the ÖAAB, by working chamber president Zangerl industriously switches ads, thus creating the workers' chamber money into the ÖVP. Maybe you have perceptions, too. We like to listen to that. Go to pan-European Pension Product: In this PEPP the word does not appear in private at all, but of course you have to lower the propaganda half from the left. This product is one that no one needs and that is from the outset also a dead birth. No one in here and no one from the audience will ever buy it. Why? – This product has been developed by the eiopa, the supervisory authority. Products usually make the supplier or the customer ask one question, but that the supervisory authority develops a product that neither the companies nor the customers want, that can't go well. And now it is so broken that the insurance companies and the banks that should offer it have decided that they will not offer it at all. So we don't need to worry about making the PEPP. On the question of whether private pension provision needs to be provided in the second pillar, i.e. in the company, and in the third pillar, that is private, I would like to say something. In fact, the documents of the Social Ministry at the time of the Minister for Social Affairs Alois Stöger can be considered here. We know which party he belongs to. There was a graphic on the side of the ministry, how the replacement rates in statutory pension insurance go back, from then, 2016, around a quarter by 2050. In other words, you get a quarter less in the future, as you have earned in active working life. This is the security of the state pension, which is promoted by red and green. If, in reality, the first pillar is less powerful and we want to protect people from being able to keep their standard of living at age, then we must strengthen the provision in the second and third pillars so that people can afford a beautiful life even in old age. This is necessary in the sense of the young generation. Beautiful speeches of a pension hole, which we have just increased by 1.2 billion euros in the previous decision, do not help anyone. This may help with the next choice, but in 30, 40 years there should also be solid pensions. If not, then bear the responsibility if you now talk the problem away.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21327	Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21351	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I am referring to the Securities Supervisory Act and the Capital Market Act, because it is important to note that the implementation of an EU directive brings key simplifications and simplifications that are urgently necessary and comprehensible. This will enable investment firms or credit institutions to communicate more efficiently and faster. This is a relaxation that brings relief to the institutions, but above all also to the employees. The rules in this law will contribute to the recovery, but also to the stabilisation of capital markets after the corona crisis. For example, they allow communication between credit institutions and customers to take place electronically. It wasn't always like that. Now it is regulated, which brings legal certainty and protection to customers, but also to companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21383	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21408	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I believe that my previous speakers have already entered the agenda item 10 in a very deep way. What is it really about? . We have already worked this out enough in the House and have also discussed it, and now it is easy to implement EU directives. This is basically the main content. But if we are already here on topics of the Financial Committee: Mr Loacker, I listened to you at the previous item on the agenda, as you said to the Secretary of State, that in the first quarter of this year we took almost a quarter more taxes than in the previous year. [[Abg. Loacker: 1.6 billion!]] - Yes, I know the sum. It took a quarter more compared to the previous year, and now people are fed down with a hundred or something. Just so that we know what this is in the sum: For a minimum pensioner it is a 15. Pension, if you calculate everything that this government does to offset the cost, especially those people who have the lowest income. Mr Loacker – you are actually a failed person, I think – but we had a lockdown last year You don't forget, do you? Or do you think that this state basically doesn't need any more money if a lockdown is that the revenue is the same as if we don't have a lockdown? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I believe that we must start to be careful at all – and we all bear responsibility for each one of us here, no matter what the political group, that we will get to grips with this again in the future. It is not only that we now have the war and that we have the story with the pandemic – I hope that something will not happen again in the autumn – we also know how the international financial market is now developing. We know that until recently, when you bought bonds, you even got money for it, 0.35 percent to 0.5 percent plus. We know that if you accept bonds on the international market, you already pay 1.5 percent interest. Only for understanding – I am now rounding a bissel –: The state has about 300 billion euros in debt. The municipalities and the countries have about 38,40 billion euros in debt, so this totals approximately 340 billion euros. 1 percent interest rate increase costs the Austrian budget – totaled by the federal government and countries – about EUR 3.4 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] So now we really have to look – I know the wish concert here – that we deal responsibly with it budgetfully. You, Mr Loacker, are one who is looking at the next generation. We must not forget this: We are not only obliged now, but we are also obliged to our children and our grandchildren. I think we need to look more closely at that in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21470	1 In word, no one is reported for this anymore. [[7:54:03]] That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask whether we can enter the voting process immediately. - Yes. Then I'll go like that. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Agenda item 9: Draft federal law amending the Stock Exchange Act, the Securities Supervision Act and the Capital Market Act, including title and receipt in 1441 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks out for this bill, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Admission in third reading? – This is also unanimously adopted. Vote on agenda item 10: Draft federal law, which introduces a Federal Act on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) 2019/1238 on a Pan-European Private Pension Product and amends the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the PRIIP Voluntary Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Consumer Protection Act, together with the title and receipt in 1445 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. [[17:55:53]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 2458/A by Mr Nico Marchetti, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (1447 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 2405/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues, on the re-introduction of student housing support (1448d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 1504/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on the extension of the scholarship system (1449, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21586	This brings us to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21613	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about reforming the funding of studies. This is an important thing, however, in which there are some serious shortcomings. The first defect we have to see concerns the existence of this law. In an ordinary legislative process in Parliament – government, Parliament – the procedure is such that the draft is sent in review so that the institutions concerned, in which experts who are able to analyse these laws well in their effect, can deliver opinions that may be still available, and then bring the law into Parliament accordingly. Unfortunately, this has not been done. But a very strange way of doing things was chosen: In fact, the draft law was sent out a bit for the opinion, but in parallel, even before the opinions were there, in Parliament in the Committee on Science and Research, it was decided by the government parties. This is not exactly a clean democratic process when it comes to a law, and the thought is that it is now becoming increasingly common. That's why I also expressly mention it because it's more than a beauty flaw. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] As far as the law itself is concerned, it must be noted that there is an increase – the first increase in five years since we are no longer in the government. We negotiated the last increase at the time. However, this increase does not cover the loss caused by inflation in recent years and does not at all cover the inflation we are all now affected by, so do the students who, of course, feel it. So it's a real step, but it's too little to make the money and support that students get worth what it was five years ago. So, despite the increase, the money is now less valuable than five years ago. The next serious mistake is that it has not been possible to make an automatic valorisation again, so every year the funding of studies is increased by inflation, which is especially a problem now and is particularly important, since we all know and feel that inflation is now particularly high, that students are particularly concerned with it and that money is becoming particularly quickly less valuable. It is, therefore, a particular defect that is likely to have to wait a few years again until the height is adjusted and the money becomes less valuable each year. At the moment, you can really see how that melts. Since housing costs represent a special obstacle to students, we have also submitted a request that the federal government should again assume financial responsibility for supporting student living – and then my colleague Kucharovich later – and also ask for support for this very, very important concern for students.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21660	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21686	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! I would like to briefly describe the situation of the students. Of course, I also had contact with this novelle and also always before and received e-mails, led phone calls. Yes, students don't have it easy at the moment, especially those who have to live alone at the place of study and finance their place of residence – especially in Vienna, for example, these are often WGs with gas-day heatings – and the food becomes more expensive. So these are really things, in view of which I say, we simply have to react as a policy. I also understand the criticism of the opposition to the process of how this law came about, but there we were, honestly, also in a target conflict: As we have said, we want this money, which is urgently needed by the students, to actually arrive as quickly as possible, we now have to decide within this time frame so that it can actually be beaten and the money can be paid out from September. This goal, I think, is one of ours. It is not true that Mr Blimlinger and I were glad that we now had such a short review, but as I said: This process was necessary to react quickly. I would also like to take a brief look at what this funding is to look like. On the one hand, there is more money: There are 22 million euros more this year and 2023 68 million euros more. Especially the target group I described earlier, so students under the age of 24 with their own residence at the study location, get 12.1 percent more, that is, the strongest increase – we have taken this into account in particular – all other constellations receive at least 8.5 percent more study aid. On the other hand, we have also tried to make it a little more comprehensible with a modular system. There is now almost a basic amount of 335 euros, and then, depending on the need, there is more – for example, an own apartment at the study location – more. Replacement for the family allowance and these whole steps then lead to the point that you can get a maximum of 923 euros. We are also moving about to the level of social assistance available in this area. I think that's an improvement. The criticism, which has also come from, for example, the ÖH or the opposition parties, was essentially concentrated on two points. One thing was to say: It's somehow not okay with the process! – I just described why we chose this process. We have already used this brief review, which is why there is still an amendment today that we have taken things into account. Yeah, it wasn't great, but I think it at least partially led to a result as we would have liked it. This amendment is a response to this review. The second is that of course some say: It's too little money! – That is understandable, we hear that again and again in the measures we take. But I believe that this delicate plant of consensus, which I see, is reflected in the fact that even the ÖH and the opposition parties say: It's a step in the right direction! Finally, I would like to focus on this point: I think the students need quick support, and I think we all agree that they need support. I hope that you feel this step is enough to agree to this project, because I think it is actually an improvement. I think we're here to make improvements. I hope that we can find a broad majority in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21734	Next speaker: Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21756	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Since you were not there, when Mrs Kuntzl spoke, I also allow myself to make up for this. The academic quarter does not apply here, I say. You know, however, that it is a sloppy legislative process – we have already discussed it in the committee. What went on there was a legistic mastery in the worst sense of the word. On the one hand, to launch an own-initiative proposal, while an opinion on the draft Constitutional Treaty is under way, the deadline has not even expired, and thus to the outside, to send the signal to all stakeholders, it is in fact perfectly hoped for what they are giving for opinions, because it is already decided in Parliament before the deadline is over, that is a sloppy deal. Mr Kuntzl said that. This is also a sloppy way of dealing with democratic principles, including the involvement of civil society, especially those concerned, and much more. I said it in committee: We have also been told by the Greco, anti-corruption authority of the Council of Europe. The one – that is not my statement – not only said or held for Austria, but in general: The sloppy handling of participation rights or assessment procedures in the law enforcement process is part of a corruption and decisive for the rank of the corruption index. So there's a lot of air up in the Federal Government, and you should be in the middle of the belts, especially in the matrices of universities. You might be able to put this off in the future. Otherwise, we are very disappointed. Mrs Blimlinger has announced to the Committee that there will be a massive adjustment to the Committee, because we have said we reserve our consent. In principle, we are willing to play an active part in these areas. What has now come to the world is such a little mouse, more than disappointing, and that does not change substantially anything about it being too little. In view of the fact that the last increase in 2017 has not even covered inflation, and now, after just under six years - i.e. five and a half years - one or another has actually increased by a maximum of 12 percent, but since the last time the consumer price index has increased by 13 percent and now reached 7 percent inflation, this is already too little, little foresight and no academic achievement in this field – therefore: too little, too slow, too short. The reference circle is expanded. I become a lifelong learner, but I don't understand what this should be a target optimization if you say: ==References====External links== Year of life – why this age and not equal to 40 or 65? - expand. This is not understandable to me, because it is not really beneficial in many areas, even if one can use the double duration of study and can still be service providers. That is, in itself, socialist work, I would think of assigning it to the Greens. The ÖVP plays a role in ensuring that performance is less and less in the focus, and this is still done in the tertiary education system, which we believe can be used by other standards. This is once the one – and therefore a rejection. We will agree to the referral request made by Mrs Künsberg Sarre, because we believe there is a need for improvement. The argument that we have to decide now, otherwise it will not go out until September, is bake because we still have a meeting in June. We could do committee meetings at any time, and it's enough for June, if you want to, every time – if you want to make the right adjustment. You know, it explodes the cost of living. It explodes everything in these areas. We are constantly lagging behind, and that is not a forward-looking policy. Perhaps a sentence in this context, because it is very up-to-date: A new technical university is to be born at the Linz site. Not only do we, as opposition, but also very many stakeholders and those affected believe that this does not lead to the goal, as is the case, and that the process of integrating all possible stakeholders does not last again. We have offered to make a parliamentary survey: It would be good if we sat down tomorrow at 11 a.m. – or all day – and have a conversation about this. Mr Taschner and the ÖVP have already refused in advance because there is no need for participation from others, that is the new style. But I believe that if you already take a lot of money into your hands to create new things, you should at least do it in such a way that it really becomes something good. As you are currently planning, I dare to prophesy that this is going to be a pipecreper. We offer help to make a common effort to bring good to the world when money is already taken into control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21807	Mrs Eva Blimlinger, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e21828	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and above all, dear students! The process has already been discussed in detail, perhaps just a few sentences: Yes, that was not ideal, we have already said that, Mr Marchetti has said it, but it was important to us that there is at least a short review period. It has also existed, and the review also has in a comprehensive amendment – and that is not just a mouse, but it is, so to speak, big mice, I do not want to talk about elephants right now, because we have already been a little stressed in the pandemic. It is therefore a very comprehensive amendment which addresses very many aspects of the review. The most important thing, however, is that it is a novel that includes a lot of points. Yes, it's always too little money, and of course you could spend a lot more money, but I think that the around 90 million euros that will be available over the next two years are really a lot of money compared to all the other increases of the last ten or 15 years, which always existed at intervals of three to five years. Yes, we would like automatic valorization in many areas, including pensions. I fear that we will – no matter what government there is, obviously It does not want to reach all parties, because it is an area that is being renegotiated every time. Let me, however, summarize the most important points. On the one hand, there is an increase in aid rates and income limits while at the same time changing the method of calculation. This means that there will be much more students who benefit from study grants. What was also very important to us is the increase in the age limit for the reference of study aid by three years, from 30 to 33 and, above all, from 35 to 38 for self-holder students. This is also a result of the pandemic, in which many wanted to use a self-holder scholarship, but had already exceeded that age limit. There is a new model at all for the self-holders. That is to say, the scholarship periods that have existed since the four years ago are no longer taken into account, i.e. they can start from zero after the four years. There is also a two-year transitional period, which is now, as it were, provided for in the calculation. It is about 9.7, 10 percent for self-sustainers. The whole package for self-sustainers is also due, as it were, to a development in the labour market, where it is always a matter of learning new professions, other professions. Especially in the pandemic there were many requests – we have discussed this in detail today – many requests for training in care. A very central point is the decoupling of the family allowance, the amount is replaced for over 24-year-olds. There is an adjustment of the equality of foreign students to the Union and international law requirements; something that will also be a very central change. There is an extension of the cost allowance for childcare and an increase in the amount of withdrawal for disabled siblings. We have incorporated the assessment results – I said it at the outset – into an amendment, namely a amendment tabled by Mr Marchetti, Mr Blimlinger, Mr Blimlinger, Mr President, on item 11: Report of the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 2458/A by Mr Nico Marchetti, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (1447 d.B.), which I bring with it. Finally, let me say two more sentences because Andrea Kuntzl has said that it will not make up for the loss of recent years. That is also true, but it must be said that at least half of the persons who have obtained scholarship in these five years now no longer refer to this loss, so no longer – under quotation marks – “sensing” because it is not paid back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] So that's a little bit of a obscene argument. Yes, of course we would also like to have a higher sum, but I have to say: It's a proper package, it's so tied that students have a good support. By the way, I believe – as always – that the Windisch-Kaserne must be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[18:16]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22019	The amendment has now been distributed to all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you have explained the amendments you have tabled here, so to speak, in your comments, and that is why the amendment is part of the debate. Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22050	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear viewers! I am particularly pleased today that I can welcome my Mentee from Teach For Austria here, Betül, who sits on the gallery and listens today. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] We have heard from the previous speakers: Today, we are discussing a real masterpiece of the coalition, a Gustopückerl, you almost want to say. That seems to have never been what I heard – and we have asked people who have been and have been in this House for a very long time – that something is being decided on in the committee and at the same time a ministerial draft is still under consideration. That didn't exist, and that's really very, very questionable what you're doing. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Blimlinger: There was a review!]] There was a brief review, and I was just about to say: [[New call for tender Blimlinger]] We already know that the ÖVP is pain-free in such things – but that the Greens are obviously so pain-free now that they say that a 12-day review is enough, but we already decide to do it in committee before and then work a little bit more by means of amendment!, I am very surprised, Mrs Blimlinger, especially because colleague Maurer, as former ÖH chairman, you as an earlier rector and also Mrs. Mrs. Hamann, as a former journalist in her previous life, had totally weathered against such a procedure, and now you sit there and say nothing. [[Abg. Blimlinger: There has been a review!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] If the process was already questionable, we would have expected that at least in terms of content there will be a large throw, as you always announce it, but that was not the case. You don't even figure out the price, as you did yourself. We shall vote against NEOS or, first, we shall make a referral request to which you will probably not agree anyway. We would have expected more for the students. The government has forgotten the students in the last two years anyway de facto, the Minister of Education – including your predecessor – has never talked about the students, and now they could of course have expected a juicy increase in study grants, but not even that brings you together. You said in committee, Mrs Blimlinger, that it is not bad: It's a lot of money anyway! There's not that much money! Money could be more and more! [[Abg. Blimlinger: Well, it's not a little money, is it?]] I mean, you're just extending short work, an instrument that's inconceivably expensive. So there is always money somewhere, only for the students obviously not. [[Abg. Blimlinger: There's a lot of money!]] We NEOS want, as you know for a long time, sufficiently publicly funded universities and universities, we want to pay postgraduate tuition fees in parallel with the extension of scholarships, so that students can really study quickly and quickly in a good environment. We also want to bring more private funding to universities. This has long been Usus in other countries, only with us obviously not. In this respect, it is a shame that you cannot approach my request for more private funding at universities in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22157	Mr Martin Polashek has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22178	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I apologise in advance for having arrived only during the speech by Mrs Kuntzl. I've been out there very briefly. I am very sorry. Of course, I do not use any academic quarter or anything for myself, but I respect Parliament's calendar of appointments. I'm really sorry I wasn't there on time. On the subject: When the application was submitted, one could already imagine what the counter-arguments would be. I've thought you won't be able to say anything else. I think that this is really a massive and big step forward and that it really is a great increase in the entire scholarship system and also a real simplification of the whole system. So I think that increasing the maximum aid rates by 8.5 to 12 percent is already a really nice achievement that we provide for the students. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We raise the income limits for the calculation of parental maintenance by around 9 percent, and we also raise the age limit at the beginning of the study. I think there is a misunderstanding as far as it is not about extending the duration of the study, but of course there are deadlines for the duration of the study, and of course it is also required by the aid beneficiaries. But what we have seen over and over again is that there are still more and more people who choose to study, after a first time in the professional life, often also to go to a first degree and therefore start studying in the second course of education. For these people in particular, we are extending the deadline by three years. We are not extending them to ten or more years, but precisely because we see that this age group has not yet had the opportunity to benefit from a scholarship. But it is not about people studying longer, but people who have already been in the profession now also have the opportunity to study. What's very important to me is: The new system leads to a narrower administration, greater transparency, because, as before, one does not delete from an initial amount if certain parameters are not met but, in the sense of a modular system, assumes a basic amount and then imposes appropriate modules so that people wishing to receive study aid simply do easier and see more clearly what support they can benefit from when they meet certain conditions. This is really a significant improvement in the system. Under the rule, this means that the highest study aid, which was previously EUR 841, is now EUR 923 per month. That is, I think, not to speak small, but it is already a nice sum that makes itself felt by the students. As already mentioned: It is around 70 million euros more per year. This is not a “mouse” for me, but 70 million euros are already a nice sum. The study funding budget will be increased by a quarter from next year onwards. So there's a quarter more money. I would like to thank Parliament for the active consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22232	Thank you. Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22257	Madam President. High house! So we have now heard from the Federal Minister that this law, the increase in study aid, is an effective, comprehensive and targeted increase, an increase of at least 8.5 and up to 12 percent. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to look at the absolute figures: In 2021, the sum of this study aid amounted to approximately EUR 281 million, if I am not mistaken. We will now add 22 million euros from September 2022, and next year 68 million euros will be added. These are sums, I think, that can be seen. Of course I hear about the opposition: That's too little! I understand these arguments very well, even in view of the existing price. It is indeed true that we will continue to talk about it and continue to negotiate, and it is also useful in a democratic process to talk about it. Perhaps a democratic one. Process also makes a little more sense than automated valorization. Sometimes democracy can also be used. I think that's very favourable. Moreover, the principle is that we are doing this very quickly now. Until that, qui cito that; who gives fast, he gives double. Imagine: double. That's more than we can expect. It was also necessary that we proceed quickly. Now comes the criticism: Yes, that did not correspond to the parliamentary use, there was a contradiction! This criticism is expressed in a way that we have done with it as if we had committed a serious sin of death – but that is, I believe, not really the case – that the Science Committee has committed during the assessment phase. After the review phase some of the proposals that have come have been tabled into an amendment, and this amendment is being negotiated here in Parliament, here in plenary. You, Mrs Künsberg Sarre, would have been able to address the proposals that have been made there, instead of being like you here – how am I supposed to say? – go in total opposition and represent the position: Such a thing would be impossible! In a sense, I felt this more than a pelvic trade fair. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Mrs Kuntzl, you might use a different expression of how we are opposed to our efforts to do so as quickly as possible. Such expressions, with which one says: This is all so terrible!, once one of the socialist Federal Chancellors has proved with a different word. I really want to say, too. It is also important that we give the students – male, female, however – an opportunity to study, which we offer them. That's something the state offers them so they can make a career. The university appears on the one hand as a passage point, but on the other hand as a place of residence. So studying for a long time isn't that bad. The university can also be a paradise if you suddenly see: There's something you'll get to know. In order to provide a basis and help them to do so, this law is intended to serve. I think it will serve well. We will continue to work on it, of course we will continue to think about increases. I think we're on a very good path. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22320	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22344	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, you said in the last Scientific Committee that no one should be prevented from studying because of financial or social barriers. That's what you'll remember. I am entirely of your opinion that this is also a social democratic access. Only your speeches and your actions do not fit together completely, but there is a certain discrepancy, because if you were to take this seriously, you would agree to our request to the request of the comrade Kucharovich to reintroduce the student housing promotion. We have not only had the corona pandemic, which has particularly affected students, since classical student jobs – especially in the hospitality sector – have been lost, there was also the price explosion that we had during the last plenary sessions. have discussed extensively, for example with regard to energy costs, rents and food. This concerns not only the population as a whole, but especially students, who are mainly dependent on a secondary job. The ÖH, and this was published yesterday on orf.at, conducted a wide-ranging survey among students. The results clearly show the problems in the compatibility of studies and jobs and that some 130 000 students have massive financial problems, even before the pandemic and before the price increases. We have around 33 400 places in student homes with 388 000 students, at the same time the living space in these student homes is becoming more expensive because the existing housing allowance is not sufficient. The education policy of the SPÖ has always and especially since the 1970s been borne by the fact that no talent should be lost, by no young woman or by no young man, whether the children were from workers' households, bourgeois households or from agricultural holdings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The education policy of the ÖVP in recent years has caused one thing, namely that students whose parents have a thick wallet come through their studies well, and many who need a secondary job who have financial problems stay on the track. This has been the education policy of the ÖVP. We ask you to accept the government parties, here, the Genocre Kucharovich's request for the reintroduction of student housing promotion so that no talent is really lost. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22393	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22414	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear spectators at home! But especially dear students! We are debating the increase in the funding of studies. The opposition is of the opinion that we act too quickly that we are bringing this law on the road too fast. As a policy, citizens often tell us that we are not acting fast enough. The NEOS would have liked us to send the law back again, but then we could start from 1. Not even paying out the increase to the students in September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] So I think we have taken the right course by quickly helping the Federal Minister and also here in Parliament with a quick solution and helping directly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Künsberg Sarre]] I think it is important to act quickly and become active, and we have succeeded. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, there have also been amendments to which we have addressed, which have also been incorporated in the amendment, and that is also good. In terms of content, I would like to address a few previous speakers: Mr Graf, I know that has been difficult to understand in the Committee – we have not abolished ECTS, and these limits still exist. That means that it is a demand for performance; that is also important and good so. But, and the Minister has already done it, we have also raised people who do not start to study directly after the matura, but rather a trail later, and so to speak they have the opportunity to obtain a scholarship, the age limit has been raised, because it is particularly important for us to pick up the people where they stand. [[Abg. Martin Graf: It's not about this!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Martin Graf]] Education is an important asset and, Mr Silva of the SPÖ has already mentioned it in his speech before me, the talents belong to collection and also strengthened. – That’s exactly what matters to us as a People’s Party! [[Abg. Künsberg Sarre: Exactly!]] For this reason, in recent years we have increased the budget for the university level, we have introduced new measures in the field of teaching, we will be bringing in the law of higher vocational training this year so that we can also strengthen dual vocational training in this country even more so that we can support what we are celebrating internationally, so that education and lifelong learning can also get a firm place with us in Austria, so that we can continue and continue to be proud of the young people in our country who are the future of Austria and will thus also strengthen the location in Austria. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Blimlinger.]] As a member of Graz – Graz with more than 36 000 students – I am of course particularly pleased with the additions for the students, because that enables us to do exactly what is important to us as a People's Party – and I am pleased that we are also doing this so well with the green coalition partner – namely that those who need support really get them. We have managed on the one hand that for students who have children, child care is more supported, and on the other hand, we have managed to increase service scholarships for those who bring performance. With this, I believe, we have created a wide range of additional support for students and can thus look positively into the future. It may also be that one colleague or the other colleague from the opposition parties is going along with it. It makes sense for Austria, it makes sense for our educational landscape and it makes sense for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22500	Mrs Katharina Kucharowitsgewandt to speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22524	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! If it were not so sad, it would almost be delicious to be honest here, how the ÖVP and the Greens are performing and defend this study aid – yes, something happens – with claws. Mr. Taschner – that was the best statement – did you seriously call an automatic valorization undemocratic? Is that your serious, or was that a joke in your speech? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has nothing to do with serious politics or serious policy. You, dear colleagues and colleagues of ÖVP and Greens, are masters in ignoring the situation. Yes, something is being screwed, but you completely ignore the largest affected group, namely the Austrian student community, which is absolutely unscrupulous about this draft, because there is an increase, but just don't keep the height adjusted so much that students really have something of it and can live on it, and the relationship is only possible if you actually work. And the better studyability, which was actually promised, is not given either. Mr Minister, I cannot understand why you so ignore the Austrian Student Union, and I absolutely understand its incompetence. This is once again a wiping away of the interests of students, and unfortunately this is not new. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to come to the topic of living: Today we have reported that inflation has been at its highest level for 40 years. The rate is 7.2 percent. In addition to the price explosions, we all know that, in the case of petrol, diesel, heating, electricity, of course, it also concerns food and living, and living is in itself extremely expensive. There are quite a lot of people in Austria who really have to decide whether they can afford rent or eat, and that in one of the richest countries in the world! Students, of course, are particularly concerned with training, especially in addition to the pandemic. The Federal Government has long ignored students, not heard for a long time, and now nothing happens. We have submitted a request for the reintroduction of student housing. This was the case, until about ten years ago, and you always defend yourself with a clear argument, Mrs Blimlinger, also at the last committee meeting: They're not responsible as a union. – At that time there was also something extra from the covenant that was placed on the feet. Mr Silvan said: Only 10 percent of students live in student homes, and these are now inconceivably expensive. The reintroduction of student housing funding would really relieve many, many students and help them – but you do not seem to want that, and this is the case of expressly speaking out to the students. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But, and I can promise you that from here too, we will not let go! We ask for this request to be approved again today. Of course, we also have further applications in the pipeline, because it is already about living as a fundamental right for all, namely a fundamental right that must be affordable and manageable. That's why: Here with the reintroduction of student housing promotion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22587	Mr Nikolaus Scherak has now referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22612	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Kaufmann has previously claimed that the opposition criticises the government's work too fast. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The opposition criticises that the government does not comply with the ordinary parliamentary procedure or with the use of this House, nor with the assessment periods recommended by the Federal Chancellery of 4 to 6 weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22639	Mrs Gertraud Salzmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22660	Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall, but also love At home and especially dear students at home, at the universities, wherever you are now, at the exam preparation! There's a lot to do for our students. The last two years have been extremely challenging, especially the times in distance learning. I am very glad that the universities are now fully open and that a normal course of study is possible. Of course, this normal study company also means that there are students who are also dependent on a scholarship, which is subject to scholarships. We today decide on the present draft law, which provides for a substantial increase in these scholarships, i.e. between 8.5 and 12 percent – a necessary increase in order to allow those students who otherwise have no financial opportunity to attend a university to attend a university. In total, we will spend 22 million euros this year, and next year it will be 70 million euros. Mr Minister, you have already explained this: There's a modular system now. The funding will be recalculated and it will be higher. The age limit for a possible relationship will be increased by three years, and the self-holders will continue to receive the scholarship. I think that is very necessary. These are all those who have been in the professional life for four years and are now studying again. It is also very important – I know that many students have to work by the way or also want to – that we have already increased the amount of earnings from 10 000 euros to 15 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen! Every euro that is invested in education is a well-invested euro, and I would like to say that very consciously here in scholarships. The goal for us must always be to enable all children and young people to have good education and training, a education that promotes their strengths, a education that opens up our young and young people also the diverse fields of work, beyond traditional role models. I think it is very important that our girls and our young women are also brought closer to the fields of technology, science, science and information technology, that they become interested in it. I am proud of our excellent education system in Austria, which allows all young people access to our schools, to our universities, to our universities and to our universities – all, without restrictions on access, if they are not professionally necessary. It is therefore also clear that we are among the countries with the lowest youth unemployment among all European countries, because we have a good system of education and training. We don't just need academics. I'm on my way home a lot in businesses, and when I talk to the entrepreneurs, it always says: We urgently need skilled workers! That is why, Mr Minister, we will certainly have to look even more closely at strengthening our secondary schools, including our excellent dual education system, the dual teaching with theory and practice, which we urgently need. We have a shortage of skilled workers. If you compare what graduates earn with what AHS graduates earn when they do not take further training, then you have to say that the one who has made a teaching deserves more. In other words, we will have to look more closely at the fact that AHS students are above all those who are also willing and able to study after that. I would also like to make a conscious mention of the vocational schools, because they both do very well: They prepare very well for the use in the economy, but also provide the opportunity to study. To that end, I would like to conclude by saying: Every euro we invest in the education of our young people is an excellent and well-invested euro, from which we benefit very well in Austria, in our country in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22721	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Rausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22742	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Seers! If one has followed the debate now, it is to be said that as a People's Party, as part of the government coalition, we have been accused several times of having nothing left for the students that they would not be important to us. I find this exciting, especially if we are just submitting a request that will bring more support to the students. I have actually heard different things in the debate. I am not surprised now that the liberals do not have much interest in a broad and colorful student and science landscape, but what surprises and surprises me a lot is that NEOS have argued today against this expansion of the study grants and were so reluctant. Honestly, I don't know very well. I've heard now that it's supposed to be more private money in the colleges, but they're also supposed to be publicly financed. This is a bit so all and nothing, but in opposition, of course, it is a lot easier to demand everything and then to criticize every right step. In any event, today – and this must be said – you are voting against the fact that the study aid is currently being increased, because it is also acute. This new study aid, which has been mentioned several times today – I would like to mention it as the last speaker of my group at least – is more precise, it is closer to life and, above all, it is higher. In a utility shell you could say that the students just get more money. Prof. Tashner has already made a perfect calculation of her significantly higher level – I am not going into your scientific field now and are throwing numbers around – but what is relevant to me is not only the percentage, but also that more students will simply have access to this promotion. I would like to stress once again that this has remained the case today – Martina Kaufmann has already put it right anyway – in the direction of FPÖ: It is not a question of the same students having the opportunity to obtain the aid for a longer period of time. Rather, it is about giving other students and more people the opportunity to make a decision closer to life for the second or perhaps even third course of education. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Nobody said that!]] I would also like to take up and put into relation what the SPÖ – lastly speaking to Katharina Kucharovich – said, student housing funding: Even if we leave aside the argument that I can gain a lot, that competence is simply not with the federal government, and that there are other potential promoters, I would like to say that the amounts are simply different. For example, 20 million euros would be spent on home support. However, with the study aid decided today, we issue 68 million euros more in 2023. This simply helps students to a greater extent. The FPÖ has therefore said too little. I can't win it. We promote more students and thus give them the opportunity to also choose to study. We also encourage those who need support to make this decision easier for them to study, to better reconcile the study with their living situation and the need to earn their living. It is very relevant that a person who studies and earns his own living can also receive study aid if he or she has received one before in life. This is relevant and, as I think, much closer to the life of so many students than has been the case so far. Apparently it's too slow. This has, I believe, been said by Mr Graf – too little, too slow, I think, his words. I don't know exactly where I am. Is it too slow now or is it kind of too fast? That is not quite clear to me either. But – in turn – you don't have to know at the opposition. I think we know what you're doing, especially when you're a student/student or you're planning to start a study. Well, not only is the implementation phase over the summer, it is also relevant from my point of view that today we can give the students planning, that those who now decide to start a study in autumn know what they are going to do with what they are doing. At this point I would simply like to say once again: Nico Marchetti and Eva Blimlinger have managed a big throw, which we don't have to let go of here today. We support more young – or even older – people in the way of university education. They will contribute, just as all those who have called Gertraud Salzmann, who go other ways of education, to the fact that not only they themselves can live a good life, a self-determined life, but also our location Austria is strengthened accordingly. One last thing to say, you still allow me to say, because here is more often called the ÖH: The left coalition in the ÖH yesterday criticised the fact that politics is too little about the concerns of the students. I think today's decisions are a counter evidence of this. We have even included demands, suggestions from the ÖH in the amendment, which has now been distributed and also stands for discussion and vote. I have the feeling that the left coalition in the ÖH is always much more about party politics than about student representation, and the figures give us this right: Only 8 percent of students are satisfied with the Bundes-ÖH. I think that speaks volumes. I think it will be much more satisfied with today's decision, because anyone who agrees to the request today is very specific to the students' side, has realized that the funding systems must also be adapted to the realities of life and that university education is important for the future not only of the individual people but also of our country. So: Thanks to all those who are with us today.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22785	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Then I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Scientific Committee and continue on the agenda. [[18:51:05]] 14. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 996/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on location concept for universities (1450 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22824	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Andrea Kuntzl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22851	The request of the colleague Künsberg Sarre, whom we are now discussing, is essentially based on the fact that there is a site concept that analyses: What are the priorities? What are the priorities where? Where are there offers and where is there what need? You want to think that's a no-na request, but that's not the case. For this, there is a concrete, very up-to-date example, which has also been very present in the media in the last few days, namely the concept for the TU to be set up in Linz – and we must say in advance that at least we are not opposed to creating additional meaningful educational opportunities in the field of higher education. It's only about the question which and where: Where do they make sense? In this respect, there is massive doubt about the project you presented, Mr Federal Minister. This has now been clearly read in many opinions on the draft that you sent out, which has been crushed in the most massive way in the last few days. Criticism is based on the scientific claim, on the schedule, on funding. The fear of the other universities that this is at their expense is still not cleared. It is said that the freedom of science is at risk, and it is pointed out – as we are now on the issue of the application that we are currently debating – that this concept for the establishment of TU Linz, as it is now on the table, is massively overlapd with other universities – but not with any other universities and universities, but with those at the same location, which, after all, is massively questioning the meaning of this project. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schrangl.]] It is criticized that existing offers are to be duplicated with this project, something whose meaning is quite questionable. In the run-up to this, the point was that this is a project that should be quite different. This point is also being looked for by the people who have written the comments. It is not clear what the sole feature of this new project is to be, which is why the definition of existing offers takes place. This means returning to Mr Künsberg Sarre's request: It would be urgent to carry out an analysis first and then to develop a project based on facts, based on this analysis and not on election dates, but this project has been enchanted by a election project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS]] The appeal, also due to the study of opinions in the review process, to you, Mr Federal Minister, is: Rethinking Please refer to this project. The present form! Obviously, it is not targeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22909	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Theresia Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22930	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Yes, the NEOS once again criticise that they have, of course, admittedly, this time it is the university concept or according to them the missing. But I can't quite understand that. The strategy of the university, better said the university landscape, maybe let me explain it. As a roof, we have the higher education plan, which includes the objectives for the further development of the higher education sector and also the priorities. One of these is location development. It is currently under review, it is expected to apply by 2030 and it is complementary to the research and technology strategy. This includes the university development plan, which aims at the further development and strategic orientation of the 22 public universities. In particular, attention will be paid to ensuring that university offers are coordinated over regionally, but also that regionally focused policies are possible. The priorities in the current university development plan, which I am particularly pleased with, are Mint, digital transformation and sustainability. I believe that these areas are particularly important because only with research and innovative solutions can the challenges of the present as well as the future be solved. Then we still have the strategy for the technical colleges: the technical education development and financing plan. There, too, priorities are set, and there are also the Mint and Digitalization sectors. The next high-school development plan will be created by the end of the year in a stakeholders process, a participatory process. The fact that we still have a certain autonomy at the universities – whose necessity is always emphasized by critics – is, I believe, good for research and teaching. The autonomy was decided here in the house with a constitutional majority. I do not think that NEOS as a liberal party would like to question this. The real reason for the request is, however, an implicit criticism of the TU Upper Austria, as we have already heard today. Let me say one thing here: With the TU Oberösterreich we are trying to go new ways and rethink the institution university – an approach that NEOS should actually support. Digitalisation affects us in all situations of life, in the economy, in society, in the administration. I therefore believe that this is important and we definitely have room for a university dedicated to digitisation and digital transformation. The fact that the focus on digital transformation, mint and sustainability is also reflected in it is only mentioned on the margins. Free research will be essential and it will also be guaranteed. I really want to be against the various unacquainted calls that TU is an extended workbench of the industry. Cooperations are important, they will also be with art and, yes, they will also be with the economy, as they do in the case of There are other universities. I think that is essential for the transfer of knowledge, which is just as important to you. In addition to research, teaching is a principle of universities. I think it is also important for a location like Upper Austria that skilled professionals be trained, because we need them like a bite of bread – not only in Upper Austria, but also in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would be pleased if we now focus on the speed and quality of the process. A founding convention will be set up, and this founding convention is intended to focus on many of these points that have been addressed today, and there can be a lot of definition and design. Our goal must be that we get the best minds for this convention, but of course later also for the university. I would be pleased if we saw TU Oberösterreich as an opportunity, as an opportunity for the location, for research, but above all for the students, because they are mostly forgotten in this process. By constantly making bad – by the way, this is something typical Austrian – we will not do that. So, dear NEOS: Give yourself a back and try to see the university as an opportunity, as a chance for new, for innovation, because these are really topics that you usually always hang on to the flag rod!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e22997	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23019	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Niss has now suggested that everything is good and perfect – a lot of beautiful words, a lot of concepts, a lot of headlines, a lot of beautiful formulations. But if you go into detail and practical implementation, this is a point that we criticize – in addition to the complete lack of a holistic view of the entire tertiary sector and the mutual interdependence and the mutual potential synergies that are not at all present – because: It is also a very clear practical implementation with regard to the pace in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. I can only repeat once again that in Austria we have a very, very bad relationship between the input, that is, what we pump into the system on taxpayers, and the output, which is what we then get in terms of quality. You can measure it all in the different rankings. We can also compare ourselves across Europe, and there we are in terms of the output of the followers to the next 10th place and at the Input Vice-European Master. This misunderstanding shows that there is a lot of air up in the implementation. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The high-school sector was addressed by Mr Niss, including the high-school development and financing plan – everything beautiful and good. But we are back to implementation. At first, there has been no date entered in the law at all. Now we have the law. If you say now, you're very fast on the road: There is uncertainty from the winter semester 2023/24. We know what this also entails for preliminary periods, and long-term signals are needed, and this needs to be done throughout the sector. There has been a similar situation for weeks now. Position paper of the FHK. The Federal Government is now from the stage of the adoption of a resolution of 19. November 2021, with which the whole thing is driven, has already been transferred to the phase of a kick-off meeting, after six months. Mr Niss suggested that the kick-off meeting would be completed at the end of the year. We will then take a close look at whether this is actually the case. The high-school sector – a very, very important sector – urgently needs strategic perspectives, especially in terms of funding, because it is also particularly affected by the 7-8% inflation we have. Fast, effective and efficient is different. I also have to lose two sentences on TU Linz. To clarify: The Freedom Party is basically for this project. But please, if you do such a thing, then – and now I consciously fall into the language of the deal – please do not do it as you do. This is a disaster as far as strategic planning is concerned. It is a disaster as far as communication is concerned. I'm going into some detail: If the curriculum is only more against interdisciplinaryity – a difficult word – then that is a sign to me for: We don't really know what this thing is supposed to be, can et cetera. If you offer a PhD immediately on a Green Wiese-TU, I wonder where the research is. Where do young people come from, so to speak? The JKU has a huge computer science faculty. That's exactly what redundancies, double-tracks are all about. This is not at all in line. Legal form of a GesmbH with JKU as a minority shareholder: There are already pre-programmed problems, including from the procedural point of view. They make a law to set up and don't lose a word to finance – obviously this is an unimportant area. Perhaps it will be covered by the ministerial reserve, which is 250 million euros, in a three-year period – whatever. That's anything but professional. It is also rejected by all stakeholders, by the Uniko, by the middle construction, by the students, also by the TU Austria massively criticised. You can't stand and say: That's a great thing! We also made an offer: Let us put this into a professional process within the framework of a parliamentary survey with the participation of all stakeholders! – The ÖVP’s response was: We don't need that! – So that's not how it can go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23073	Mag.a. Eva Blimlinger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23108	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! On the topic of location concept for universities, I can only say to you from my time as a rector – and this will be confirmed by our Minister of State, who was also a rector: There is nothing we hate rectors more than location concepts. It is always about the question: What study is to be abolished, which one comes to it? The motion for a resolution by Martina Künsberg Sarre states: Fill gaps, solve others. – You certainly don't make friends with all university members, Because it's exactly about saying: Yes, one develops something together in a total Austrian university development plan or – perhaps better – higher education development plan. Of course, it is precisely that universities, but also colleges, who also have private institutions, decide what happens in their universities. Perhaps another word about this mint euphoria by colleague Niss: Yes, important, but there are many other central subjects that are equally central to research. In the end, it is always about a research-led teaching at universities. We are now waiting for the evaluation of the comments on the TU Upper Austria. We will take a closer look at this and see what we can see as possible improvement in this TU Upper Austria. In addition, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23147	Mag.a Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23171	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear viewers! Thank you very much, dear Theresia Niss, for this lesson on what there is in the tertiary sector – we opposition parties know that, of course. A general high school plan, as my request suggests, is not yet available, and it is not in public assessment, as you have said, but it is in a consultation process. The universities were invited to submit comments on the proposal. You know this, of course, as ÖVP, that there is something on the way, so to speak, but obviously not everyone else. The fact that there is a vote on the tertiary sector – private universities, colleges, universities, new projects that may come – is certainly entirely logical. I do not understand at all why, if you are going to do so anyway and if that is just the way, you are going to reject a request which is also proposing it, in principle and simply because it is stopped from the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss.]] - Yes, it is. Why can't you agree? [[New call of the abg. Niss.]] - Yes, it is. This will be exciting how the TU Oberösterreich is illustrated in this university plan, which is now in consultation, because my knowledge of this TU Oberösterreich is not as pictured as it has now been sent out in review. We are also – in order to hold this here – not in principle against new institutions – at all – but we are always for that, if something is useful and well arranged: Then let us always look at this and vote for it, as we see in previous votes. But if a head of state in Upper Austria says: The Upper Austrian Members should now see that this law is being passed quickly!, then that is quite funny for a scientist. [[Abg. Niss shakes the head.]] - Yes, it has been. You shake your head, but then ask your head of state! I understand that you think here is a plea for this TU Upper Austria, because you are also from Upper Austria – is so. [[Abg. Niss: Well, but I don't know...!]] From our side there is the invitation that we enter into discussions with all stakeholders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Niss]] If such a project is put on the green meadow, there should be as wide a discourse as possible, not only with Upper Austrian representatives, but also not only with the rectors, but also with the scientific and research community. In the final effect, the goal is to do something where abroad also looks at us and says: Hey, the Austrians are really doing something great new!, and not something you say: From the very beginning, it is in Upper Austria, and so and so it shall be. - Shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23229	Eva Maria Holzleitner is now mentioned in the word. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23250	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! The rector Meinhard Lukas of Johannes-Kepler University fears – as it is quoted in a newspaper today – that the Technical University will not become a real TU, “without a fashion stream of topics [...] that only copy what is elsewhere – and also at the JKU – already exists.” – This certificate by a highly esteemed scientist, a rector, your former colleague is really very significant. Mr Federal Minister, I call on you to really interpret all statements from A to Z and to see that something is being set in motion, which is also constitutional, because it is totally incomprehensible why a new technical university needs a dubious parallel structure with a new law. The Oberösterreichische Landesfinanzshof has really criticized this financing structure – a significant objection that comes from the Landesfinanzhof, one has to say honestly. This is the control institution of national finances, and it is critical that a federal university, a planned federal university, expects a cost participation from the state of Upper Austria, “in contrast to its constitutionally established responsibility and competence”. - You can't wipe that off the table. We as the High House, as legislation, must take this into account, and you, Mr Federal Minister, are responsible for looking at that and just presenting constitutional laws here. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] There is also an extremely critical opinion from the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers. There too I have to say: It must be clearly denied that employees of a future technical university may have worse working conditions than employees of other universities or universities. We also see this point extremely critically and are definitely in line with this opinion of the Chamber of Labour. Each university of course also lives on the participation of students. We do not see that student rights may be cut at a new technical university. Student participation is an essential part of every university! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point I would like to stress clearly: Yes, more money for science, for FHs, for universities, for all institutions, especially in Upper Austria! We are an important industrial site, not a question at all. Yes to more money for the University of Applied Sciences in Upper Austria, for Johannes Kepler University, for institutions such as the Ars Electronica Center, but please do not destroy what is being done there, also in cooperation with Upper Austrian companies! [[Abg. Niss: We're destroying...!]] There is good existence there, and there is a great danger that there will simply be cuts. Yes to more money for Upper Austria, no question at all, yes to strengthen the university location, but be really very careful, and the opinions must be taken into account unconditionally! And, Minister, give us something that is in line with student rights, workers' rights and also with the Constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23299	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Fürlinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23320	Mr. Minister! High Bureau! Mrs Holzleitner, what you have said to us here as a key project of education, a leading project of digitization and modernisation in Austria, is terrifying because you do it at this age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner]] Going as a Young People They come out here and talk about a project for purely party political reasons, about the future of this country, about innovation, about digitization, all that this country needs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All that this country needs is misrepresented by your party, and I would like to thank you very much for your clear commitment to the fact that the SPÖ Upper Austria is opposed to enriching the educational landscape of Upper Austria and that something is being done for this country, which is a leading project. [[New call of the abg. Holzleitner.]] This is a clear confession, Mrs Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will tell people in Upper Austria that other things are more important to you that you have said out here, but these are things that it is not about. [[Abg. Scherak: The elections...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] It's about the future of this country, it's about the future of youth and innovation for this country, that's all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner]] This key project is also supported by this Federal Government, the Minister sitting here, and we thank ourselves very much for this commitment in Upper Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23397	Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23424	At this point I would like to stress: We are for constitutionally compliant projects. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You're against the university!]] We didn't reject the Technical University! Constitutional projects! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You are for nothing!]] Look I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the excellent work he has done. [[Call to the ÖVP:But thank you for the openness that...!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: To have everything, need for nothing!]] I would also like to say one thing at this point: At the University of Applied Sciences Oberösterreich and at Johannes-Kepler University, dozens of politicians from the ÖVP Klinken have been cleaning up, visiting, posted on social media, what great work is being done there, and all this is not questioning you with constitutional university projects. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Bravo, yes!]] [[Prolonged opposition to the ÖVP.]] We are not against the Technical University if it is constitutionally compliant, but talk to the National Court of Auditors in Upper Austria! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Well, you are for the Chamber of Workers Academy... Diplômés!]] He's written all this down. Look at the opinions! [[(Abg. Michael Hammer:...training!]] [[Abg. Hanger]] Let us know what the Constitution actually corresponds to, what workers' rights correspond to, and what strengthens the Oberösterreich site! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: To shame, the SPÖ Upper Austria!]] Then we agree, no problem at all. The SPÖ Oberösterreich does not necessarily express itself against projects at universities, because we also want to strengthen the industrial location, not at all a topic. However, explain something that corresponds to the dignity of the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23591	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – I cannot see this wish. As agreed, I shall refer the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Scientific Committee. [[19:17:42]] Vote on agenda items 11 to 14
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23619	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Scientific Committee, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] Do the clubs want a session break? – That is obviously not the case. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The SPÖ doesn't know if it's for or against the university yet!]] We come to the votes. On item 11 of the agenda is a referral request from the honourable Member. Martina Künsberg Sarre. Therefore, I shall immediately vote on the draft law to refer the additions to the Scientific Committee in 1447. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We therefore come to the vote on agenda item 11: on the rejection. Draft federal law amending the Studienförderungsgesetz in 1447 of the Supplements. Hiezu have MEPs Nico Marchetti, Mag. a Eva Blimlinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Nico Marchetti, Mag. a Eva Blimlinger, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning points 11, 18, 26 to 28, 30, 32 and 70 to 73. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request was accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1448 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1449 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1450 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. [[19:20:31]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on Burgtheater GmbH – BUND 2021/24 series (III-336/1468, D.B.) 16. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the Federal Monuments Office; Follow-up review – BUND 2020/32 series (III-179/1469 d.b.) 17. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on ART for ART Theaterservice GmbH; Follow-up review – BUND 2021/5 series (III-232/1470 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23719	We now come to the items 15 to 17 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Hans Stefan Hintner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23752	Mr President. Madam President. – I don't see the Secretary of State yet. High house! If you look at the current audit request regarding the review of certain financial years of the Burgtheater, it is concluded that the documents necessary for the reply concern a period that has been more than 20 years ago, and the Court of Auditors does not make any recommendations, but refers to the Bund report 2016/6. With this perception one could actually have stopped, if not from 1999 until the 2007/2008 financial year, which can now generally be referred to as the Burgtheater scandal. The Committee has been told, well, if one digs this out, that would be practically cheap party policy polemics – as Mr Greiner has said – and I may reject it in so far as I thank the then-esteem Minister Josef Ostermayer himself has initiated the Court of Auditors' audit; the last 20 years has gone back and there has been a real need for information. There are inconsistencies in accounting, among other things, that there are inconsistencies in procurement, that the four-eye principle will be violated and that there is no target and performance responsibility. In particular, the accounts payments as well as the management and finally the business performance were strongly criticised. Overall, the whole story has gone from 1.9.2008 to 27.1.2020, i.e. an almost infinite story. The Court of Auditors gave 77 points in its final report, in the recommendations and checked ten points in the course of a follow-up review, with six considered them to be implemented, two in part, one as not implemented, and once no application was given. I know that there is a discrepancy between the areas of artistic management and commercial management. This is probably not only in the Burgtheater, but everywhere, at every stage. As mayor of the municipality of Mödling, I can say with the only permanent city theatre in Lower Austria that I am well aware of the problem of precarious budgets on the one hand and artistic demands on the other. The Stadttheater Mödling has also suddenly met the social insurance obligation for artists. There are many questions that are similar at all levels, only – with an artistic expression –: Without money ka Musi!, and it has been of no use that you have always said: Jössas na, so and so much money is missing, we need that and that and that!, and consequences have not been drawn over years. That, however, is very encouraging, also in the debate with State Secretary Mayer and Managing Director Mag. Beutler came to the fore: May. Beutler has found that the Burgtheater has now implemented all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors – those were his words – that the Burgtheater as the flagship of the German-speaking theatre was on the best track, both artistic and commercial. This should also satisfy us here in the High House. I then made a comment in the committee, namely that one should also look at other stages, and I have called the Josefstadt. It has not yet been in our major discussion in various committees, but we have also been able to see an additional financial need of more than EUR 5 million, but on the other hand it has been heard that certain measures have not been used in the course of corona aid such as short work and other things. With regard to what was in the past in the Burgtheater, I think that we should also look forward to other houses that are regularly quite high Funding amounts received by the Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23800	I very much welcome the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors and now ask Mrs Mag.a Karin Greineran's speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23824	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear speaker! Yes, Federal Minister Ostermayer has applied for an examination, that was 2014, and that was good. This is a beautiful sign of how a responsible minister deals with looking at reality, putting facts on the table and creating transparency. However, I have, and I would like to correct you briefly, not to mention party political polemics, but very probably to ask for a clearly Party-politically motivated test. Why? – The examination of the Burgtheater, which we are discussing today, was requested by you, by the government representatives. These were colleagues from FPÖ and Colleague Singer from ÖVP at the time. The two colleagues are responsible for a test request according to § 99 para. 2 introduced. That very examination is a minority right, an instrument for parliamentary minorities, and that has never been the case in this House before, that representatives of government groups are using a parliamentary minority instrument and thus – and that is what I would like to say – hinder the opposition in their control activities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not intended, and in this way this request was probably more than remarkable, from another point of view: We have heard that there has already been an audit report from the Court of Auditors, namely the outcome of the Ostermayer audit, presented 2016, including recommendations and negotiations, as is the custom of Court of Auditors reports and what makes sense: that one has recommendations in a report. At your test request, which you submitted in 2019, although there is actually already a report that takes the history into account, of course, there are no recommendations. Why? – Because the Court of Auditors is right to refer to the 2016 report. So I'd be interested, Mr. Zanger, who is not here right now, Mr. Singer: What did you take from this test application? What are your teachings, your consequences? Tell me if there are any! The Court of Auditors has not given any recommendations on the basis of your request for examination. Again, quite honestly: In order to use an opposition instrument – and that is to say to the viewers: only three such test requirements may run in parallel – the opposition automatically takes the opportunity to make a request and claim it for itself, but obviously did not draw any conclusions from it. I don't understand, no one will be able to explain that to me, that is unfortunate, and I am really trying to distance you from such an approach in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23864	Next speaker is Alois Kainz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23888	Mr President! President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Appreciate Seers! Yes, I too am speaking today about the Court of Auditors' report on the review of Burgtheater GmbH. The Court of Auditors had already carried out an examination, but some questions remain open to us. That is why, together with the ÖVP, we called for a further report on the years 1999 to 2008. The Burgtheater is 100% owned by the Bundestheater-Holding, which in turn is owned by the Republic of Austria, and for this reason the Court of Auditors is entitled to review. At that time, the management consisted of an artistic and commercial managing director, the commercial managing director was the later Federal Managing Director and SPÖ culture minister Thomas Drozda. Now some will wonder why an examination was still necessary. The Court of Auditors has already noted in its first report that in the years 2007/2008 to 2012/2013, the activities of the managing directors who had already been discharged increased the foreign capital from EUR 11.83 million to EUR 30.56 million and over the same period the equity has fallen from EUR 15.66 million to EUR 10.29 million. - Of course, that's crazy. It is gratifying that the many recommendations of the Court of Auditors have already been implemented and the situation has improved significantly, but we do not really know what happened before 2008. That is why we called for the joint examination, but unfortunately there are few documents, because the legal retention period of seven years has expired. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors was able to find in the books of the Burgtheater cash payouts of 21,88 million euros as an account of employees or contract contractors on the basis of the existing documents from the 1999/2000 to 2007/2008 financial years. This is particularly worrying because there was neither a legal obligation nor a contractual obligation to do so. To sum up, the Court of Auditors could no longer answer our central question as to whether the Burgtheater GmbH was harmed by any lack of control, because the necessary documents were no longer available. Ladies and gentlemen, this case shows, however, how important the Court of Auditors' control is and how much tax money can be saved through the Court of Auditors' recommendations. Therefore, it would be urgent to call for the increase of planning posts at the Court of Auditors, from which the State would benefit our whole Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23933	Hermann Weratschnig is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e23955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. The meaning of this examination has already been discussed, and I believe it is already important that, if there are results, one evaluates them. Accordingly, I believe it was also important that the managing director, who was able to discuss and answer all the questions very openly and very openly, was at the disposal of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I think it is also important – my previous speaker has already mentioned it – that these areas, which have been shown, could also be repaired there – a very important area for Burgtheater GmbH – that the Supervisory Board is fully involved in the internal revision, that the Cash payments have been reduced so that the account payments no longer take place. I believe that these are important points and have definitely been learned in this regard. Since 1998, Burgtheater GmbH has been owned by the Bundestheater Organisational Law and 100% by the Bundestheater-Holding. In this structure with the two managing directors, I believe, it has also been shown that there is always a need for an examination, and it has also been seen that 77 recommendations have been implemented. What is also important is that the Burgtheater is today economically healthy on both legs; renommed, with productions of the highest quality. I wish the castle a good load. This was also discussed in the Committee: how, compared to before Corona, the rate of utilization to Corona was developed, and also the subject of the relationship of own revenue through ticket sales to the overall effort was discussed. I believe that these were all important points that were discussed in the Committee. I wish the castle, as I said, a good utilization, many successes, filled artists with much commitment and, above all, that new and young ideas are also discovered accordingly. We know that there is a need for resources to do so, and that requires political willingness, which, I believe, as Mrs State Secretary has clarified, is available; this has been confirmed again as far as the question of basic remuneration is concerned. I think an art and cultural institution lives by numerous indicators: a living sense of history, a fair relationship with employees, a good climate, a good working environment, a lot of freedom for creativity – that is very important – from constant change and to good last but not least from a critical social passion, which, I believe, is particularly felt at the Burgtheater. In this sense, I believe it is also important to examine cultural institutions again and again and to present them accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24003	Magnificence comes to the fore. Julia Seidl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear sisters! Mr Weratschnig has now given me almost a piece of ground for my subject. It's also about money, it's about the budget, it's about the basic salary, it's about valorization. We have talked in the Court of Auditors about the fact that the Burgtheater GmbH report also mentions the need to valorize, increase this basic fee. Since this year the basic fee has been increased, but the valorization is still missing. Why is this important and why do Austrians actually know this topic very well? – It’s similar to the cold progression, and it’s about politics being unwilling to finally get this problem out of the world, because it’s so much easier. In one of the last National Council meetings, a colleague said it was important to have a margin for design. That is, if you have more tax revenue, you need the space to design – what to do? – to make gifts for people or simply announce a tax reform in a great manner, in order to return this money that was previously withdrawn from their pocket. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] The Secretary of State has said that she does not actually intend to address this valorization of the basic salary and thus the increasing cost of staff, which, every year, even in the cultural industry, almost devour this increase again. It does not intend to do anything about this and to valorise this basic fee. We believe that it is difficult for cultural establishments because of the fact that it is very personal-intensive plants and that staff costs are increasing every year. This means, however, that cultural businesses cannot calculate that they also have enough money to pay their employees next year. This means that employees will be terminated or that we will go in a different direction on the topic of Fair Pay than this fair pay process, which the Secretary of State tells us about over and over again. The fact that one does not want to make this valorization is also interesting because it is part of the government programme. If you don't believe this, you can read it, it's on page 51, left in the middle.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24076	Andreas Kühberger is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24100	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! In 2017, the Court of Auditors reviewed the Bundesdenkmalamt and issued 99 recommendations in the report at that time. That means that there have been 99 problems listed – and that is not very little. I would like to address some of the problems raised in this report, which have naturally been the subject of recommendations. There was the lack of control of the staff, but also what affected the budget, but also the underprotection – there were no criteria under which monuments were protected – and there was also a very exploding IT project, in which mainly inexpensive and technical problems were listed. Many colleagues may remember that there was a hot debate in those days, and the subject was also present in the media. However, there has been an improvement process in which the Federal Chancellery was responsible, and now in 2019 – exactly: from October to November – there has been a follow-up review, and I have to say: At our Federal Denkmal Office, it now looks very positive. Overall, the implementation of 12 recommendations has been reviewed. Seven of them have been fully implemented, four in part, and in a recommendation there has actually been no point of application – that was exactly this IT story, which was technically not feasible, not financially either, and the Federal Chancellery then stopped it in 2018. A recommendation has been implemented on the standards in the under-protection procedure – there is practically a protection strategy that has been introduced. A recommendation has affected the allocation of funding, and it has also been implemented. Allow me to comment on a particular point, which was also debated here in Parliament at the time, which concerns staff. At the time, the Court of Auditors found that many temporary workers were employed in the Bundesdenkmalmamt, although – that has also been established – the work there has not become more. In the recommendation, however, one should stop taking temporary workers, and it has now been found in the follow-up review that no more temporary workers are employed. Seven additional posts were created, which were also agreed with the Federal Chancellery. I believe that this example also shows the importance of the Court of Auditors for Austria, even if in principle one looks at the effectiveness of these follow-up reviews and recommendations: The implementations amounted to 80 percent in 2019, one year later already at 85.5%. This underlines the importance of the Court of Auditors, the control body of our Republic, when it comes to verifying the legality, the economy, but also the effectiveness of dealing with our tax money. I am sure, Madam President, that, with these recommendations, the Court of Auditors is also an important booster of reforms, as we have seen, and thus makes our state and, above all, the Republic really positive in making improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24148	Mag.a. Ruth Becher is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24173	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a politician who is strong for social housing in Austria, the Bundesdenkmalmamt is of course an important counterpart to me. In this context, it is important to consider between two Poles. This is, on the one hand, the protection of the old building substance, which characterizes the local image and is also identity-building for the villages and the cities, and on the other hand, there is a claim to the building substance to enable a modern life with high living quality and user quality – and both do not always succeed in practice. I can also give an example from my district, the renovation of the Goethehof. At that time, an insane pressure was built, how the windows can be renewed. There was no compromise with the Bundesdenkmalamt, and at the expense of the tenants there was nothing too expensive. At the same time, it is now the case that there are huge poster walls and they actually completely dispel the character of this residential complex. So there is a tension between tradition and innovation, and good results should be achieved in the interests of the population. That is why a Federal Monument Office, which is also very professionally set up – and unfortunately this has not always been the case in recent years of God. Following the devastating report of the Court of Auditors under the aegis of the old leadership and the subsequent establishment of a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, the Bundesdenmalmamt came back under the new direction in quiet water. I would also like to point out a few examples here. Among other things, the establishment of a modern, cost-intensive database for the collection of cultural goods has failed; instead, a cultural and discovery database has now been developed with the Bundesrechenzentrum. The high number of rental staff has been reduced, instead, eight new planning sites have been created be. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the Court of Auditors, many points have not been implemented by God, such as a research strategy, the allocation of benefits, time records and the adaptation of the scope of work to the legal requirements. There is still much to do for the current management, and in the sense of maintaining Austrian identity, we also wish a lot of success and good for the path taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24218	Mag.a. Eva Blimlinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24242	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Now I am somewhat irritated by the speech of my previous speaker. To what extent there is something worthy or not to be received was not the subject of the Court of Auditors' report, but it was the conditions in the BDA that it was, and that must be said, especially among the Federal Ministers of the Drozda and then in the course of the Blümel, but under which it was already started to work out. The Dobis IT project was due to a SPÖ minister. So, in view of that, I can only say, with regard to what has happened there in the last two years: Shut up! It is a follow-up report: Of the twelve recommendations, a total of seven have been implemented, four have been partially implemented, and that is quite a lot for an authority like the BDA. On this report and also on the follow-up, we see how important the work of the Court of Auditors is to deal with exactly such shortcomings, which are often already from the organisations themselves – how should I say? – to be made known to the superiors, but to sleep there, to determine and to support those who say that – in fact, via whistle blowjob – and are not heard. I can only say that my praise goes to the two heads of the BDA – the president Dr. Christoph Bazil and the administrative director Dr. Heinz Schödl – who, as I believe, have really brought the monument office into a modern structure in the past – I believe it is now two and a half or three years – as far as publications are concerned. There was only two weeks ago a symposium on monument protection and climate protection, there are many activities in the field of research, also in the publications. It has been tried to reach these target groups in such a way that they can be divided into three disciplines. It is a very comprehensive area that the BDA has to cover. This begins with archaeology, and I must say that the demand for the Court of Auditors – to say what is actually the task of the BDA – has not been fully fulfilled. It is certainly good that most of it is included in the Monumental Protection Act, which it is important to novel. The tasks of the BDA range from archaeology – from the moment there is a larger construction site and something is found there – to housing, to ensemble protection. All these things have to be assessed by the BDA, even in cooperation with the Austrian State Archives, when it comes to saying whether archivals are, for example, to be placed under monument protection. In this sense, I hope that the model projects that are now – which is wonderful – continue so well and that the path will continue. Also the national conservators, conservators, are to be mentioned here praiseably. I hear again and again from national cultural representatives – they are moving yes, both in federal and federal matter – that there is a very good cooperation with the national conservators on the one hand and with the BDA Bureau on the other. In this sense, I naturally believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24291	Mr Lukas Brandweiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24315	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! In my speech, I can deal with Art for Art Theater Service GmbH. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made some progress. For me the whole thing was very exciting, because I didn't know what this company was doing – starting from the equipment for the State Opera, the Burg- und Akademie Theater and the Volksoper Wien, she is also responsible for stage endeco, costumes, storage and corresponding logistics. I would like to start by thanking the Court of Auditors very much for the good examination. Some recommendations have already been implemented. As has been said, this is a follow-up review, and large parts have already been implemented, and the colleagues have already carried out a number of things. What is to be implemented in particular from my point of view is the minimum prices. We were also promised that this is already in implementation. In particular, it is important that evaluations be made in the future in order to ensure proper management. As we are on the subject of art and culture, I would like to say that I am very glad that cultural and artistic life begins again. I am very much on the road in my constituency, the forest district, and have recently been allowed to open several exhibitions in galleries. The theatre performances of the clubs are also going on again, and I have to say that I am very glad that people also accept this very well. I was only at the Spring Concerto of Tonkünstler Niederösterreich in Echsenbach this week. It is precisely these events that make it possible to enjoy art and culture in the regions outside. They serve as culturally close-up suppliers, and we are very proud of that in the Waldviertel and in the whole of Lower Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors once again, and I would also like to thank the examining team. I am looking forward to the next exciting reports.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24358	Michael Seemayer is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24383	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! From me come a few additional words to Art for Art Theater Service GmbH; Mr Brandweiner has already reported a lot. In the preliminary report on the follow-up examination, price policy and so on have been criticised. In total, there have been six recommendations, three of which have been implemented in whole and one in part. In the Court of Auditors, the new managing director then assured us that further work will be carried out on the implementation of the outstanding points. The change in management took place in 2020. He was obviously not completely non-fractional and didn't work the first time. There was a short-term business manager who had to resign after ten days because false information was in his CV. The question, of course, arises: Why hasn't this been noticed before? Why hasn't this been checked before? The competent State Secretary has confirmed that this has not been the case when it comes to the question of whether the type of cost has been incurred. As far as the criticism of the price structure is concerned, it can already be noted that this could only be improved by outsourcing to low-cost countries in purely business terms. The commitment of the new managing director, Mrs Petra Höfinger, that orders will only be outsourced if they cannot be provided by craftsmen in Austria, is, of course, to be welcomed. Further cost reduction potentials have been raised. The number of overtime hours could also be reduced by a more uniform distribution of the employment of employees throughout the year. The report shows the importance of the follow-up checks carried out by the Court of Auditors. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24425	The President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Margit Kraker, is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24449	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, at the end of the agenda, a number of Court of Auditors reports will be debated again today, including among these agenda items, three reports on cultural institutions in Austria. The Court of Auditors shall examine regularly in this field, and the Court of Auditors' audits shall also have their effect there. I think that's in all our interest. First of all, I would like to thank you, especially the Court of Auditors, the chairman and all the members, for my apologies last week and for the professional representation of the section's head and for the answers that are necessary for the Court of Auditors. – Thank you very much for that, that is not a matter of course, that is a sign of good cooperation. Now I would like to refer to the test report on the Burgtheater. This was a special audit and the particular feature of this audit was that it dates from 1999/2000 to 2007/2008, i.e. almost 20 years. It was a challenge to raise these facts, because it was already suggested that there was a legal retention obligation of seven years and that for this reason many documents were no longer available. But as far as the Burgtheater is concerned, there is a total context of examinations: We submitted a follow-up review to Burgtheater GmbH in 2019. This reference was made to the 2016 preliminary report. This preliminary report the financial years 2008/2009 to 2013/2014 and was carried out after the so-called Burgtheater scandal was announced at the request of the then Minister of Culture Dr. Ostermayer. At the beginning of 2019, there was then a request for the examination of members of Zanger, Singer, colleagues and colleagues. This has led to the examination that we are now debating. It concerns the time of management before Director Hartmann and Deputy Director Stantejsky and dealt with the same nine questions as the previous request from the then Minister of Culture. Because the recommendations have already been made, the Court of Auditors has concentrated on the facts and has taken conclusions in which we give answers to the questions raised one to nine. On the basis of the examination knowledge, we have answered these questions as far as possible and, as has been said, recommendations have already been made in the preliminary report, and we have also referred to this in the current report. Moreover, the demand procedure and the follow-up review show that virtually all recommendations have been implemented, so that the Court of Auditors' reports – I believe I can claim – have contributed significantly to improving the economic situation of the Burgtheater. We hope that the system of cash disbursements, the strained financial situation and the disordered economic conditions in the Burgtheater will finally be in the past and that the situation will be much better. As has been said, the special examination has essentially shown that some of the issues that appeared in the examinations of the following years in all clear terms were already in the beginnings. The financial situation of Burgtheater GmbH was tense all these years. The Burgtheater has lost 5.8 million euros in liquidity within three years, and Burgtheater GmbH has been able to survive economically only by means of shareholder subsidies. Some 6 million euros were allocated in addition to the basic fee, and in 2008 the basic fee was increased by 5 percent. There were also account payouts. These rose to EUR 3.47 million. In the nine financial years, Burgtheater GmbH paid around 22 million euros to Akonti. However, because there are no more documents, proofs and contracts, one could no longer verify the contractual basis for this, and therefore the question of whether a damage arose could not be answered. As regards the two follow-up reviews: There are two open recommendations at Art for Art Theaterservice GmbH. What is Art for Art Theaterservice GmbH? – Your task is to provide or process stage images, costumes, theatre props and card sales for the stage societies of the federal government. Two recommendations have not been implemented, and it will now be the responsibility of the new management to implement these measures and to implement these two points. There was a very critical report from the Court of Auditors on the Bundesdenkmalmamt, but we have a positive result in the follow-up review. The project of the memorial information system has been set up, now there is a cultural property and discovery database. This has resulted in a large number of recommendations being implemented, and I am pleased to see this in the sense of further development of the Federal Monument Office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24511	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:02:54]] 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the system of competition authorities outside the financial market – BUND 2019/28 series (III-43/1472 d.b.) 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on administrative sponsorship and donations in selected Federal Ministries – BUND 2021/13 series (III-277/1473, e.g.) 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the management of IT security in the management of selected Federal Ministries – BUND 2021/31 series (III-410/1476, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24568	We come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Hermann Gahr is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24598	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As mentioned above, from August to November 2019, the Court of Auditors reviewed the administrative sponsorship and donations in the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior – a very sensitive but also critical issue. The purpose of the review was to assess schemes for grants, in particular with regard to administrative sponsorship, and that in international comparison, but also of sponsorship agreements or agreements on non-contributory grants. The period under review covered the years 2015 to 2019. The Court of Auditors has made a total of 30 recommendations, and as we have been informed in the Committee by the persons providing information and also by the Court of Auditors, many or almost all recommendations have been implemented and have been influenced and influenced by a so-called new directive. The Court of Auditors misses a binding system for sponsoring and other grants in several areas of government. Thus, the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Economic Affairs should establish compliance processes, including the regular publication of a sponsoring report. The auditors of the Court of Auditors therefore called for more transparency in sponsoring and consideration. A problem that is actually going through this entire Court of Auditors report is that we do not have a uniform definition in Austria as regards the designation of sponsorship. For example, the three different Ministries used different names which, according to the examiners, also led to problems of demarcation. Equally, there was a lack of uniform rules for sponsorship and donations to public organisations. At the end of 2019, an interministerial working group prepared a draft binding regulation and directive. At that time, there were only sponsoring schemes in the Interior Ministry, but there were sponsors in the three revised ministries, who were in addition to sponsoring agreements also in other business relations with the Ministry and received funding. There are three key recommendations from the Court of Auditors: The Federal Chancellery and the Federal Ministry for Digitalisation and Economic Location would have to draw up binding rules for sponsorship or other comparable grants. In the Federal Ministry of Digitalization, compliance processes would be introduced to make sponsoring more transparent. These processes should also include the regular publication of a sponsoring report to strengthen transparency. In its opinion, the Ministry of Economic Affairs referred to the grant directive in force at the time. The Directive was put into force at 9.6.2021, which incorporates the main recommendations of the Court of Auditors, and which is currently being applied to us in the Committee. On the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it was stated that, in part, written sponsoring contracts were written and that the specified counter-services were partly demonstrated by verifiable e-mail transport. In the view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, therefore, there is no lack of transparency and perceptibility. This report shows that there have been some approximations, but that we must continue to work on harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24654	Magnificence comes to the fore. Karin Greiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24678	Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I refer to the report on Federal competition authorities outside the financial market. We have found that many ministries are affected, including the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. So there are many different institutions that should play together. Which minister was in our committee? – In this case, unfortunately, no political representation. At this time, the EIAs had lost their hands on the ministers. It was then said that Minister of Economic Affairs Schramböck was coming, but then she cancelled, and the fact was that no politically responsible person was in the committee – which is a bit unfortunate because it is always like this: In the Court of Auditors there is in principle a political person or a responsible person, otherwise the discussion makes little sense. – But thank you to the officials who have given us very elegant information. However, what has irritated me – and I would like to address that – is the positioning of the ÖVP, which meant: Well, why should this be a problem if no political person is there? The Court of Auditors has also sent a delegation! – Yes, but there is a bit of a difference. Thank you, Madam President, for having worked well, she was very decorated. But it should be said: There is no political responsibility in the Court of Auditors for decisions and measures taken in Ministries. There are local politicians who usually sit here on the government bank. You really can't compare that, and I'm trying to keep it strictly apart in the future. I'm sorry. I have to say that it is currently working in the government parties, in the Federal Government, and the ÖVP has not even managed – despite existing representations – to organise a politically responsible person. In short, the content of this report concerning competition authorities: It was the Court's proposal to establish a central authority. There, I think, is the challenge to see: in the many possible synergies, potential for use. But you should really analyze these in good time with the involvement of all parties involved, discuss them properly, so that everyone can speak with you, otherwise I see the success of the implementation of this recommendation very much at risk and do not really think it possible. What interested us was the share of women in the competition authorities. There is – probably not surprising – proper air up, and I'm looking for this in the occupation of the corresponding positions in the future. However, in order to really discuss and address these recommendations, it is necessary for a politically responsible person to assume this responsibility, particularly in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24726	Mrs. Dr. Elisabeth Götze is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24751	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is good, control is better. I would like to thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, once again for supporting us. The Court of Auditors is the main control body of the Republic. You and your 250 employees support us in our political work by giving us recommendations on what improvements it needs. The Court of Auditors is thus a very important body of democracy. We have a large number of reports, some of which we are discussing today. I would like to focus on two reports, the first of which is the report on competition authorities and the second of the public sector income report. Competition control – an important issue – means ensuring free competition, ensuring fair competition and preventing unfair practices. As an economic speaker, this is logically an important concern to me, just as it must be a concern to all fair entrepreneurs. I would just like to mention that the Federal Competition Authority has succeeded in opposing the building cartel, which she has revealed, to impose a record fine. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] On the one hand, this is good, and on the other hand it is good for the competition authority, because it is partly financed, but at the same time it also shows a problem which was identified by the Court of Auditors, namely the lack or lack of funding of the BWB, the Federal Competition Authority. The problem is: If it is to be financed by ongoing penalties, then there is no planning, because it is only then, as it were, when the penalty is imposed, that one knows if one can finance the current year. It is therefore important, in the sense of planning, to enable longer-term financing. The second point I would like to address very briefly is the income report of the public economy. I must say that from a feminist perspective, and on this point of view, the situation is also quite a blow to the face of women in public enterprises. The proportion of women in management and management positions is 22 percent – and I have to say that you can look at it differently again: In the private sector, i.e. in listed companies, the share is only 7.9% at all. So, in view of this, one could say that the public sector is always progressing with good example, but, as I said, with 22 percent, I think, women cannot be satisfied. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After all, the government has presented a Council of Ministers presentation which aims to increase the rate of women in supervisory councils to 40 percent. There you can see that the quota is effective, because the proportion of women in supervisory councils is going up gradually – that is, something you can think of. Thank you once again for the reports. We shall endeavour to implement the proposals accordingly. In my view, it is also good that we can discuss here, because I already see myself as a politician, who can do something too. It is fine if we can discuss with ministers, but I think this is the right place, even without ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24814	Next speaker is Mag. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24838	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. It wasn't Mrs. Schramböck there, but I'm not even sure if we would have gotten better answers if she had been there personally. The report on the system of competition authorities is therefore important because effective competition also requires effective supervision. The critical majority of the House's market economy should also consider whether a good service would be provided to the economy in Austria as a whole, if these authorities have a long-term reliable financial resources and if they are organised in such a way that they can work well and efficiently. If you look at what the Court of Auditors has prepared there, you can see, kindly, together, less friendly, messed up by KommAustria, RTR, E-Control, Federal Competition Authority, Federal Cartel Officer and Telekom Control Commission and all possible institutions. Of course, you always have to ask yourself the question: Where does one's work stop and where does one's work begin? That's not always very cleanly defined. In this respect, it would be advisable to consider whether there should be a single legal self-employed institution that takes care of all of this with different units. In any event, the competences of the Federal Competition Authority and the Federal Cartel Officer should be brought together in order to enable more effective work there. Many wise proposals can be found in the Court of Auditors' report – implementation is certainly not easy. Just because it is not easy, one should not leave it, but devote itself to implementation. I am already looking forward to the report, which then reviews the implementation of the recommendations. This is a great job for the Federal Government, whether or not someone has been in the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24875	Magnificence comes to the fore. Kurt Egger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24896	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not see Mr Greiner right now, but I admire her energy at the end of the day, which is how she spends 90 percent of the speaking time getting upset about nothing rather than discussing content. This is currently the SPÖ and is a little a moral image even of today's day. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Nevertheless, I would like to say a few things about content: The examination period we are talking about is from 2013 to 2016 with the system of competition authorities outside the financial market. The review took place in the period of, I think, July 2016 to March 2017, and we have now May 2022, five years after that. In the meantime, the responsibilities, the Federal Ministry Act, have changed several times. I therefore think it would be desirable if we could discuss things in a timely manner. There are certainly a few things – Mr Loacker has referred to it – that are worth discussing. Some of these are provided for in the government programme of the turquoise-green government, for example the recommended merger of federal cartel attorney or federal competition authority. You have to look at this very carefully and see how you can put it on well in the sense of competition. There have been a number of recommendations that have been implemented in the meantime. The women's ratio in management positions was also addressed. It will be necessary to cast an eye on it. I am confident that we will succeed. In this sense: Thank you very much to the Court of Auditors for the proposals. I hope we can implement a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24935	Next speaker is Philip Kucher. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e24960	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Egger, after your friendly consultation or reply to the comments made by Mr Greiner, I may also briefly replicate on you. Exciting how much you respond to the report, announcing data from your government group and saying that you have to look at it carefully, you have to discuss it carefully, you have an eye on it, you are confident that some things will go on. The best thing about the work of a government group would be not only commenting, but also implementing the measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has put forward a lot of proposals. I believe that this would be a good opportunity to show the President that this was a tragic panic that the current competent Federal Minister simply did not show up. It is also a question of political responsibility that cannot be taken into account by officials, because it is also a question of political courage to assume responsibility for their own actions. I think it would also be important in the field of competition policy, since finally the necessary measures should be put in place. The Court of Auditors has also proposed this excellently. I should like to congratulate Mrs Götze, who has tried excellently to speak up on the women's quota in the field of executives, on a short replica. I know that, of course, from the Greens' point of view, this is not easy to talk about when there is a decline in the number of female board members under green government participation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] This is, of course, disappointing, and there is probably a need to encourage the Green Party to contribute more politically to women. On our side, Mr Holzleitner has done very, very intensively, I think you would have our support in this respect. At SPÖ it will not be, Mrs Götze, that is perhaps the parallel to Mr Egger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Goddamn it.]] It is nice to speak very flowery in the evening, which has been critically highlighted in the report. [[Abg. Haubner: What is the content of the speech?]] If you still try to transfer the flowery to a concrete performance, Mr Haubner, we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25014	The next speaker is David Stögmüller, who was just in progress. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25039	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! President of the Court of Auditors! Almost on the day exactly three years ago, the Ibiza video was released, which still deals with the investigation of individual facts. In addition to the nocturnal speculation on the video, there are many more Causen to explain this affair, how you could or could spoil entire parts of the Republic. We remember the ad affair around the Beinschab “Austria” tool or the current, also very exciting, processes around the Vorarlberg Economic Federation, but there were also payments to associations – past the Court of Auditors – over and over again in recent years, including with us in the Investigation Committee. Now you are certainly wondering what this has to do with today's issue. – This is actually relatively easy to explain, because both things are about effective combating corruption. The Court of Auditors' report deals with the question of sponsoring ministries. The question of sponsoring ministries is always discussed publicly, also in the context of the question of what happens to public money. In the course of this discussion, we talk about the conditions under which a Ministry of Money to projects, associations or public Orders may be awarded and under which legal regulations this must be done. For example, the processes are regulated by procurement directives, the Federal Procurement Agency and the management of electronic files and internal revisions. The other side of this medal is administrative sponsorship. This page is scarcely available in public perception and also in discussions, but we also need to explore these precisely for effective anti-corruption. Administrative sponsorship means that money, benefits or other living subsidies are paid to a ministry. There is a very wide range, which all comes in. The Court of Auditors also criticises that there is no uniform concept of sponsorship. These grants include, for example, sponsoring events, loaning for exhibitions, fees for participants in training, transfers of cars to use and use, or discounts for ads. We know this from the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] I would like to point out, in principle, that sponsorship should not be bowed down, but especially when it comes to sponsoring companies to the ministries, it is important to define exactly what counts as performance or consideration, in order not even to give any impression of partiality or corruption. An example: Several vehicles from two cooperation contracts were left available to the BMI for both-sided marketing purposes. One of these vehicles was then used for traffic monitoring. This raises the question of whether there should be this kind of sponsorship in the area of sovereignty administration at all. Another example is the Safe Austria Curatorium, which sponsors the summer festivals of the LPD Tirol annually with more than 3 000 euros and at the same time has received funding from the Ministry of the Interior of 3 million euros for the years 2015 to 2018. Just such issues can lead to conflicts of interest and convey a very poor look, so it is important – as the Court of Auditors notes in its report – that there is a clear distinction between the use of administrative sponsorship in the context of private administration and the core task of the administration. In addition to good documentation within the ministries – the lack of documentation was criticized by the Court of Auditors; for example, there were 14 cases in which the BMDW was sponsored, only one case in which a written agreement was concluded – it also needs a preliminary review so that there is no conflict of interest. Clear compliance processes and regulations, existing business and funding relationships must be made transparent and taken into account as early as the decision-making phase for sponsoring. There is already a working group in the Ministry, in the Deputy Chancellor's Office, a service law clarification is already contained in the new service law novel, which we hope will soon be decided in Parliament. As soon as it has been decided, I hope that the working group will take the next step, in which model contracts and so on can be developed, to apply to the ministries in a grant directive. What is still missing, which I hope will come from, is the transparent publication of all grants on the side of the ministries, so that everyone can understand what will be left to a ministry. That is why I can only repeat the need for clear rules and, above all, full transparency and implementation, which is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25105	Michael Seemayer is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25129	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, Mr Stögmüller has now explained very comprehensively what the report is all about – perhaps a few more thoughts about it. In Austria a lot is sponsored. In total, there were 1.3 billion euros in 2021. If you sponsor and support someone or anything, then there is also a counter-performance, mostly in the form of marketing or advertising. Of course, sponsoring is primarily about sports and events and not about the Austrian administration, but it is also possible to sponsor the Austrian administration. This may be tricky if you think about the return benefits. Counterfeiting must be clearly defined and also recognizable in order not to land in the field of influence. It could therefore be assumed that there are clear rules for administrative sponsorship and clear rules for this kind of sponsorship in Austria. The report before us shows that this is not the case. It reads that there is no uniform definition for sponsoring, that there were only rules on sponsorship in one of the audited ministries, that advertising services were not evaluated, that there had been no written sponsoring contracts, and that the Ministry of the Interior also received several grants without consideration. So the report also shows how urgently it is necessary that there be clear rules for administrative sponsorship. While a working group has been working on it or working with us at the time of the examination, there has been a very clear administrative directive in Germany since 2003 with strict provisions on how administrative sponsorship should work. Grants received must be published annually in a report. When we recall the headlines about fact-finded surveys or some advertising scandals, this only underscores the need for such rules for administrative sponsorship in Austria as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25170	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr.in Margit Kraker, has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25194	Ladies and gentlemen! Three reports from the Court of Auditors concern these agenda items, the first concerns the system of competition authorities outside the financial market. It is true that this report has already been published in June 2019, and the structural analysis we have carried out here is of course still true, even if responsibilities with the ministries change. From our point of view, we need a comprehensive mission critique and the development of a competition strategy, a structural reform of competition authorities to increase efficiency and enhance synergies and the development of a multi-annual financial instrument. Much has already been said about administrative sponsorship, as it was discussed that we need a grant directive as well as criteria that we want to understand. I would just like to say that this is simply important for the administration itself, so that it knows how it can act and act. In addition, I would also like to say that there have been such regulations in Germany since 2003 and that the German Federal Government has published a two-year sponsoring report. In other words, there are still possibilities for improvement. The third report on the agenda was not addressed because it was not addressed in the Committee either. I would nevertheless like to address this because I think the report is important: It is about the report on the management of IT security in the administration of selected Federal Ministries. We published this report in September 2021, which is a new report. We have examined the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digitalization and the Ministry of Officials. The IT security strategy, the IT security organisation, the security of the IT workplaces and the security of the IT infrastructure were reviewed. In this examination, we have identified some important points, which are of course still relevant and also need to be observed, especially when there is ressorting...
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25226	Madam President, we have another problem with the microphone.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25242	Is it okay now? - Thank you. With regard to the consolidation of the IT equipment of jobs, no significant progress has been made in the ministries, and this is particularly the result of the shift of expertise in the field of restructuring within the Federal Government. The IT equipment and the security measures are to a great extent specific to the sector, so the shift always leads to a high level of effort because the IT equipment and security measures are then adapted to the respective other standards. This includes the IT security risks transmission phase. In this report, we have criticised the fact that in September 2020 – and thus nine months after the relocation of department competences – the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Officials and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health had not yet given a uniform IT responsibility for the care and safety of jobs. This is important in itself, and even now, when the agenda is being postponed. There is an ICT consolidation law, and in this there is in itself the obligation to harmonise ICT – but there is no corresponding regulation. We recommend that a consolidation regulation be adopted. The aim is to reduce heterogeneity and to pool the support of IT equipment for jobs. As far as the Home Office is concerned, we also see that there is a need to take care of IT security. We recommend that teleworking be provided if there is also a service IT equipment. It is also necessary that there are emergency scenarios to ensure the continuity of IT operations – they were not sufficiently defined. It is also true that important IT services from external companies have been provided in individual ministries. By means of a service provider, the Ministry of Digitalization also used external personnel to work abroad in the EU. We have seen some risks and believe that there is a need for supervision of personnel in this area by the ministry responsible. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another report that we have now published in April, which concerns the coordination of cybersecurity. In both reports, we conclude that, from the Court of Auditors' point of view, a national coordination competence on IT security would be useful. Under the Federal Ministry's Law, the Federal Chancellor's Office for the Affairs of Strategic Network and Information Security is responsible; the Ministry of Digitalization has been responsible for coordination and summary treatment in the fields of information technologies; however, the Federal Ministry is responsible for its own IT security. A competence for coordinating IT security is not explicitly defined in the Federal Ministry's Act, but we would think it useful, and that is why I have now notified myself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25296	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:36:37]] 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on housing in Vienna – BUND 2021/3 series (III-222/1474, D.B.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on fire protection in the Vienna Court of Justice; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/36 (III-51/1475 d. B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on Austrian Cultural Forums – Series BUND 2018/44 (III-10/1477, D.B.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report on Average Income and Additional Services for Public Economy Pensions 2019 and 2020 – Income Series 2021/1 (III-489/1471, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25357	We come to points 21 to 24 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was also no oral reporting. Mr Johann Singer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25390	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report on housing in Vienna reveals serious shortcomings in the social housing system in Vienna. It's not all bad, but much too much lies in the arse. I would like to begin with the topic of renovation in Vienna's housing, the municipal apartments. Wiener Wohnen does not reach its recovery goals, as the Court of Auditors noted, and thus has a huge recovery site. A 30-year recovery cycle is being sought, which would correspond to an annual renovation of 7,300 apartments – in fact, the rehabilitation cycle is 67 years old. In the period 2013 to 2023, therefore, only 45 percent of the necessary rehabilitation services are implemented on average. Real estate experts count the recovery store at least EUR 5 billion, as reported by the newspaper “The Press”. She pointed out that the majority of Vienna's municipal buildings were not in good condition. Now the question is: How could that be? In contrast, joint construction associations have rehabilitated their facilities – at lower rents! There is already a question of whether this is social, because the stock of non-profit-making apartments set up before 1980 is almost completely thermal-energyly rehabilitated. It is particularly striking that not only are there high restructuring deficits but there are obviously corruption problems as well. wien.ORF.at reported last September: "In the suspected fraud in connection with the renovation of municipal buildings, there is now a first charge. 53 persons are charged with benevolence, 45 of them are employed by Vienna-based dwellings." Ladies and gentlemen, this is not all! When we study the Court of Auditors report, we see that ads play a central role in MA 50, which is the Magistrates' Department for Housing Development of the City of Vienna. From 2013 to 2018, 28.34 million euros were spent on newspaper inserate. With this money, many supported apartments could have been built. The Court of Auditors confirmed that the ads themselves were made in accordance with the law – but now it comes: The Court of Auditors also found, on the basis of the selection of 108 ads, that in the printing works, partly even directly next to advertisements of the city of Vienna for the funded residential construction, pictures of members of the Vienna state government were to be found repeatedly. It is therefore important to examine in detail the legal relevance, in particular because the “Falter” reports that Vienna turned to advertisements of 400 000 euros, with critical reporting on Vienna’s housing in a significant medium. But that's not all! The controversial residential building project Dittelgasse in Vienna-Donaustadt was also examined. “The press” reported: “In order to calm down citizens’ resistance to 400 apartments built with tax money [...], 100,000 euros were charged for mediation. The company was commissioned by the subsidiary of a Vienna SPÖ-communist. The chance also is the boss of that builder who builds there.” [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's it!]] The Court of Auditors considers the indirect award of contracts to the daughter – the contract was formally awarded via the WBV-GPA, which is the housing association for private employees – to be a circumvention business. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: A mega scandal!]] Here the exciting question of responsibility arises. But that's not all! Questions were raised about the award practice, and the number of empty apartments was questioned. In 2018 there were 7 689 apartments, over 3,600 apartments more than the structurally acceptable void of 4,000 properties. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] The question of supervision of non-profit housing has also been addressed critically. And I would like to address another issue which has not been dealt with by the Court of Auditors, namely that certain non-profit housing companies had particularly high amounts on the accounts of the Commercial Bank Mattersburg, which are now in danger of being lost, as can be read in the ‘Kurier’. Several companies of Sozialbau AG are particularly affected, which had parked more than 70 million euros at Commercialbank. Ladies and gentlemen, on all these points, the responsibility lies with SPÖ, a SPÖ that is constantly trying to adapt the other parties – and this in the case of more than enough tasks in its own field. [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: From the heart of the SPÖ! This is red swamp in Vienna!]] It's not understandable to me. The use of the term debt slavery in a SPÖ broadcast on the topic of housing investment bank yesterday is also not understandable. The use of an anti-Semitic, an extremely right-wing concept, as Wikipedia describes this expression, is to be rejected and the SPÖ is in need of explanation. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, one could call on SPÖs to come at their own door. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] In view of the variety of points shown, the SPÖ must be obliged to scrape at its own door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25508	Mag.a. Ruth Becher is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25532	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The residential building in Vienna: The Court of Auditors' report takes a sharp look at the way in which Vienna operates social housing. [[Abg. Schrangl: Money is tossed in Vienna!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The sad thing is that they managed the apartments down like that! They're all disolate together! Who's gonna clean this up?- Oh, my God!]] It has come from the commitment of the FPÖ, which has believed that the Court of Auditors could deliver ammunition to claim maladministration. [[Abg. Schrangl: Exactly!]] There is something that has come out in international circles. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Substandard apartments, or what?]] On the facts: Vienna is considered a city of particular importance, and therefore every year between 10,000 people and 20,000 people decide to move to Vienna. [[Abg. Schrangl: For managers!]] [[Abg. Schrangl: Minimum insurance providers!]] The private market fails in the supply of housing. There is, of course, a lack of an appropriate rental right, which you always close down. According to Statistics Austria, the rent includes operating costs in municipal construction is an average of 6.50 euros, in private housing it is 8.80 euros per square meter. That is, every third euro earned remains alive in municipal construction and does not increase the profit of the landlords. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You didn't rehabilitate them for that!]] On the preferred theme of FPÖ, the alleged high emptiness in municipal construction, the Court of Auditors has a quota of 3 per cent, and this also corresponds to the share in the private housing market. For comparison: In Germany, the level of unemployment is 5.2 percent. Vienna invests very massively in the area of renovation of old municipal buildings. In 2021 the budget amounted to around 95 million euros, 2022 to 150 million euros, and in the next few years the corresponding budget resources will continue to rise. In conclusion, the Viennans know why they live better, more generous, cheaper than the inhabitants of other metropolises. This Court of Auditors report shows the good course taken here by the city administration of Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25668	Magnificence comes to the fore. Philipp Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25703	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Yes, you can of course see it as the Members of this House. However, it can also be seen as the Court of Auditors saw, that in Vienna there is a lot in the arrogance of housing. The freedom of the country club group has made this request to the Court of Auditors to examine the residential construction in Vienna once again, as there have been rumors about painting. I would like to sum up briefly for you, ladies and gentlemen at home, what the Court of Auditors has stated. First: The SPÖ Wien and Michael Ludwig operate a millioneur PR machine from funds that are actually intended for residential construction. 28.34 million euros for newspaper inserates from 2013 to 2018 are a true propaganda filling horn. Secondly, In reality, the party that writes about its flags to the liquefied living space has done almost nothing in reality – unfortunately! – and it is the Viennans who pay the price for it. The Court of Auditors proves that, for example, in addition to advertisements from the housing promotion agency, members of the state government of Vienna are depicted. – A bad thing who could think about media manipulation. However, further damage has been done for this; for example, when I think of non-profit housing companies such as the WBV-GÖD. The problem that these should actually be recovered from the environment of a real estate speculator and brought back into the lap of non-profit housing cooperatives is still not solved. And that there were dubious transactions there, this Court of Auditors report also shows, and that is probably now indisputable. The Court of Auditors' report also shows that the Wiener SPÖ sees the non-profit-making housing, which should actually be there for the longest living space of the Viennans, as a lucrative family business instead. The SPÖ-near settlement union had an obsessive who was at the same time a red countryman, and her daughter had received a highly dotted assignment from the supported construction project Dittelgasse, in which the settlement union was involved. In fact, § 9 of the housing law prohibits such family connections, but the Court of Auditors has found that the law was simply bypassed, for Comrade Gehbauer, the chairman of the red cooperative group and head of the WBV-GPA, was a project partner of Ms. Schubert and commissioned the daughter on behalf of all those involved. Amoral and shameless, I would call that. If instead of the tenant PR, special care and law enforcement are so important for the Wiener SPÖ, it hardly surprises that the municipal building is almost lost. 5 billion euros of refurbishment are a blow to the people's face, so for the time being we demand that the Ministry of Economic Affairs take charge of Vienna's housing; for, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ has lost control. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, we demand that the financed community building should no longer be more expensive than financed cooperatives. Wiener Wohnen should be monitored for a pure holding of property and thus also by the Association of Non-profit Associations. That would improve a lot. Finally, on the advertisements from the housing promotion: 28.34 million euros for newspaper inserates are almost obscene, and, of course, as the Court of Auditors has noted, this also involves advertising the SPÖs. I wonder how the small coalition partner of the SPÖ in Vienna sees this. I wonder when the NEOS are yelling. The honourable Member, Mr Loacker, has issued transparency and anti-corruption in the Court of Auditors as the most important objective of the next legislative decisions. When will NEOS implement its high objectives in Vienna, where they are involved in the city government? That's where it needs real reconnaissance. The MA 50, the Vienna Magistrates Department 50, seems to be walking along the paths of the Vorarlberg Economic Federation. [[Abg. Sieber: Hello! What?]] But where the Vorarlberger Wirtschaftsbund has probably lost 1.5 million euros, this path is now a motorway. 28 million euros is quite different from in Vorarlberg. With 28 million euros you could have renovated over 500 apartments and returned renovated apartments to the tenants; for, ladies and gentlemen of the Vienna SPÖ, people need to have quiet apartments, no lip confessions and no ads at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25745	Mrs Tomaselli is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25767	Mr President. Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You can see this quite well: In the long term, the only effective means of combating speculation and of living in the quieter housing sector is certainly the common good, and that the city of Vienna has therefore achieved great merit, is also unquestionably recognizable. However, I am surprised, Mrs Becher: The Court of Auditors' report is not a complete one now, but there are so many clearly critical points which the Court of Auditors points out, and I think it should be accepted well and not be taken into account with the pink glasses – the The impression remains, unfortunately, with you – because in the Court of Auditors’ report on “Wohnbau in Vienna” there is already a lot inside that is not really comprehensible. For example, this smart living program: These are small, compact, cheap apartments, especially for young people. That's where you're wondering: Why is this so hesitantly expanded? - I don't understand. Or also the prohibition of short-term rents such as Airbnb: This is actually a very, very good law, but it is also being implemented totally hesitantly, because the Court of Auditors has found that in the examination period only a short-term rental was prohibited, and so the law is, of course, a lame duck. But what is so annoying is how the city of Vienna deals with political responsibility when it comes to fighting the climate crisis. The renovations carried out and planned by Wiener Wohnen from 2013 to 2023 really included only about – and that is quite micky – 3 286 properties, leaving Vienna's housing behind 45 percent of the target itself. Just so that you can put this into figures again: When the Vienna community building continues to work at the pace, the buildings are not, as necessary, renovated every 30 years, but every 67 years. I don't think the community builders deserved this quality of living, nor did the climate of this snail pace deserve. Why is this so annoying? – Because the city of Vienna would have every opportunity to really move forward as a First Mover, to renovate better and faster than others. In fact, this has nothing to do with a favourable rental price, because you look at the housing market very carefully, then you can see that the non-profit housing providers are actually the climate-political model students. These are the only ones that actually create the necessary recovery rate of 3 percent. Therefore, you can already ask yourself very loudly why this is possible anywhere else, but especially in the Vienna community building not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Yes, Mr Stögmüller is very enthusiastic about this statement. – That’s not how we will fight the climate crisis. So our motto would be rather: Press on the gas, the situation is too serious! We have no time when it comes to fighting the climate crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25815	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25836	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen and those who sit in front of TV devices, laptops and the like at a later hour! We have once again had very intense discussions in plenary, but in advance also in the Court of Auditors Committee. There were a total of three meetings in which we discussed quite constructively again. I should also like to thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, for having managed, despite your illness and your lack of presence, to set up the Court of Auditors in such a way that it is easy to do so over the past few years. That's also a merit you have to count. [[In the case of NEOS, representatives of the ÖVP and of the Agg. Schrangl.]] However, we have also had very intense discussions because, and this must also be said, because this is very bad, the Minister for Economic Affairs has not appeared in this committee anymore, although she was still in office and had quite This has, of course, not necessarily facilitated the debate. Although we were really very well informed by the officials, probably better – Mr Loacker said it earlier – than if it had been done by the Minister for Economic Affairs, it is nevertheless necessary to have a political discourse in the Committee. I hope that this will not happen more often in the future. A very essential task of the Court of Auditors, which is also standardised by law, is also the income collection. This is a report which is produced every two years in which salaries are compared in companies which are allocated to the public sector and in which it is also seen how salaries have changed in recent years, especially in relation to the salary of the Federal Chancellor. However, we have the fact that the method is quite complex. These are 800 companies which, on the one hand, have to be consulted by the Court of Auditors, on the other hand, they also have to pass on these data. This is extremely inefficient, you have to say so openly and honestly. There has been a request from the Court of Auditors for years to come and consider: Is it still contemporary? – As far as I know, this approach comes from the 1970s, and so we have to consider how we can work better. For example, the data available would not have to be collected extra – that is about social security statistics, about the wage statistics that are already present – and could, on the one hand, relieve companies, on the other hand, also relieve the Court of Auditors, which has very important other reports on which it could focus, in terms of efficiency and efficiency, on two basic assumptions which the Court of Auditors considers important for itself. I believe that we should act as legislators and bring about a change of law as soon as possible. That is why I have tabled a request today and hope that, as soon as possible, discussions with the other political groups will bring about further development so that the Court of Auditors can really do what is important, namely work on the regular reports which we have put forward as proposals, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other hand, on areas selected by the Court of Auditors itself, so that the State, the administration in Austria, becomes more efficient, fairer and more forward-looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25891	The next speaker is Mr Franz Hörl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e25915	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Dear spectators who still endure on the screens! Today, I am also allowed to report to the Court of Auditors on the average income and additional benefits for pensions of the federal government for the years 2019 and 2020. Madam President, congratulations on this, the report is 590 pages thick – so thick! . a very, very comprehensive report on the average income of well over 400 companies from the federal institutions subject to the control of the Court of Auditors on the income of supervisory boards, board members and of about 250 000 employees. [[Displaying with your fingers:]] Criticism is regularly caused by those incomes above that of the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor earned 306 000 euros in 2019 and 311,000 euros in 2020. In 2019, 70 persons were in 24 companies and in 2020 in 23 companies were 51 persons above the income of the Federal Chancellor. Of course, your report also states that there were additional benefits for pensions, at least 540 and 550 million euros. However, you have also found that these are all old loads, which are contractually secured and are, of course, reduced over time. There are few recommendations in this report, just one proposal, and I think this is really very, very important, because to draw up this report, for which you are obliged to use the data of Statistics Austria better and your employees who have done a great job here – I think this is really a typical Court of Auditors work, of course, very dry – because, accordingly, they can also serve the data of Statistics Austria. The proportion of women – and I already noticed this – is 22.1 percent in the Board of Management and 31 percent in Supervisory Boards. This is, of course, very small, because it has to be reworked. If I look at this – in the arts and culture sector, the proportion of women is 53.6 percent, in the health and social sector is 41.5 percent and in the industry of commerce and gastronomy, in my industry, even at 50 percent – I think we need to catch up. In recent times, the top salaries have been strongly discussed. However, it is also necessary to see that these top salaries are paid to a high share – between 12.7 percent and 87.76 percent – depending on success, and that is why Gagen, like the Post, a listed company, with 2.5 million euros, at the Verbund AG with still 890,000 euros, at the Verbund AG with even over 1 million euros. So up to 87 percent will be paid according to success. At the Abbag, the mining management society – that is the society that we have created to develop the topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria, a project which the Carinthian Freemans knew very well and also co-responsible – the paid Gage of 2 million euros is rightly criticized, with the current Managing Director Bernhard Perner receiving his salary of 500 000 euros and the previous, Michael Mendel, 1.5 million euros. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Not a little!]] [[Abg. Tomaselli: part-time job!]] There is already something to be said about this: You have made a parliamentary request, Mrs Tomaselli, it is good that you do so, that you also control it. [[Abg. Tomaselli: Yes!]] They write in it of a princely gage, sounds like so too, you can of course also arouse a lot of envy there. [[Abg. Tomaselli: Yes, it is!]] The fact is, however, that this Michael Mendel was expelled by Finance Minister Schelling from the banks from Germany to clean up this salad, which others have prepared, namely at Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Yes, and?]] [[Abg. Blimlinger: That does not justify it!]] Just listen! At the time - - no, I do not defend this, Mr Stögmüller, but one thing is clear: [[Abg. Blimlinger: A total nonsense, Lord Hörl!]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: You defend 1 million euros salary for 10 hours of the week!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] 5,5 billion euros was the damage from Hypo Alpe-Adria when Mendel started. He has brought together the piece of art, that this damage has not increased. [[Abg. Blimlinger: 1.5 million euros for 10 hours per week!]] We all remember that we assumed that the damage caused by the Hypo Alpe-Adria - – – What screams [[Abg. Stögmüller: Cash flow!]] So, Mr Stögmüller, don't you want to hear that? [[Abg. Tomaselli: Yes, yes!]] Haven't you brought this out in the investigation committee yet, or are you so good? [[Abg. Blimlinger: We want to hear it, but we want it to be an intermediate call in the record!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] So, once again: We expected this adventure to cost 13 billion euros in Carinthia. Finally, it cost 5.5 billion euros, and the country of Carinthia has paid 1.2 billion euros, and there is also an interesting awareness of 800 million euros coming back from the sale for the country of Carinthia, i.e. 400 million euros. [[Abg. Blimlinger: Your speaking time is over!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] If you take the difference to the future fund again, to this great future fund, which Haider then dissolved, there is a few hundred million euros missing. I hope they didn't go down with the sun in the Wörthersee, yes, I hope so. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] Madam President, an excellent report, an informative report, but also in the case of top-ranking salaries, we must look at it: What does the State Manager bring to the State? [[Abg. Tomaselli: Little! ... part-time job!]] That's what you should look at. [[Abg. Stögmüller: For 10 hours! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,]] And: Less screaming, Mr Stögmüller, and more working in the investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26163	Philip Kucher is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26198	I do not want to go into this hack between Greens and ÖVP at all. It is another evidence for the excellent work of Dr. Peter Kaiser in Carinthia, who managed to make the best of this black and blue adventure for the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I think it's very important that you hold this again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As even Mr Angerer nods, it is important that you hold this here again. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Colleague Singer – where is Colleague Singer? - You're a little sir. We both as policy-makers - that's why I'm hurting. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You do not need to bring this style of the Secretary-General Sachslehner into Parliament. They have – as we both have – always argued sachpolitically, and then, in a word notice at 9 p.m., the social housing in Vienna has become the most subjective. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Singer, you do not need that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] I am grateful that Ruth Becher has brought the facts to an excellent, well-known housing expert by studying and presenting the Court of Auditors report. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] Perhaps I would like to address this very briefly – I did not even want to talk about the attacks, Mr. Singer – but a question only about the government programme of ÖVP and FPÖ, you just have to read it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We all wondered why large donors and speculators from the real estate sector have donated a lot of money to the ÖVP, large donors from the real estate sector; all of us were surprised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl]] In the government program – Mr Schrangl, who always, as it were, also the fighter for the little man, has negotiated it – was the main concern of the black and blue coalition in the area of living, that one has said: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There must be market-compliant rents. The biggest concern, then, was not that one could create quiet living, no, that was no matter what the most important thing was that the real estate economy should earn money properly. This can be read in the Black and Blue Government Convention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] Mr Schrangl, you have negotiated this together with the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why: When we talk about it, we don't make social housing in Vienna bad with cheap assumptions! I mean, that's absurd! Only the argument with the void – colleague Becher has made it excellent –: It is an void rate below that of the private sector. If I take over my colleague Haubner's apartment, it'll probably be such that he's moved out before I move into his apartment. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So that there is such a thing as a natural void and that one may have to renovate, that is, I think, quite comprehensible. Mr Hanger has now understood this, thanks many times! That's all, I think, been drawn to the hair. I did not want to go into it, Mr Singer, but after you really did so in the middle of the evening so intrusively using this sachslehner style, I had to do so briefly. - Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26312	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26336	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Dear spectators in front of the screens! Before I come to the cultural forums, but another sentence of colleagues Hörl: We do not want to extend the debate unnecessarily now, but it would be good if you were to stick to what is the subject of the Court of Auditors' reports. That's what Mrs. Tomaselli did. It has also asked for a parliamentary question. But now that you roll this out with the Abbag, as you say in Vienna – you may not know it as a Tyrolean – does not make a slim foot. That is why we are yelling in the Minutes, which is what the points with the EUR 1.5 million premium are. But now to the cultural forums: There is a very detailed Court of Auditors report. Many of the suggestions – it is a follow-up report – were implemented. Two short points: Unfortunately, it is always a very small percentage of the overall budget, especially at the New York Cultural Forum, that is, 8 percent. You'd really want that to be more. The second suggestion: Is it really necessary in the cultural forums people with prealables to manage this? – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is of the opinion that: Yes. I have to say: No, no, no, You might also need to think about finding a mixed form. I also believe – and I follow the Court of Auditors here – that it is not necessary that the leaders of the cultural forums actually need prealable, but they should understand something about art and culture. Perhaps there is a mixed form, so that they can also have a different degree, such as the Master of Advanced International Studies, which is offered at the Diplomatic Academy. By the way, I am of course still of the opinion that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26381	Magnificence comes to the fore. Kurt Egger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26403	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Kucher has considered: The best thing to do! – Hans Singer is not only “a bit a sir”, but he is a real sir. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recommend the SPÖ not only to read two pages of the Court of Auditors' report, but the entire 121 pages. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Schrangl.]] I am already a little surprised, as representatives of the Social Democracy order Court reports. [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] I believe that the Court of Auditors' findings as cheap polemics are, in fact, a real pigry. [[Abg. Zarits: Unheard!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26460	That is why I have a call for order, Mr Egger. - Please, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26502	What Mr Singer quoted, that every year 5 million euros for public relations – brackets on: Notices to be issued – is contained in the report. The report states that a 30-year renovation cycle is planned, but that 67 years are the fact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] As my colleague, Mr Becher, realizes that this report is “very recognised in international circles”, I cannot fully understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] I am a little lacking the outrage of Mr Krainer, who seems to be gone. - No, he's right there! – We know him from the investigation committee that he would probably have been really excited – today he is a little tired – if other parties had had such things happened. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this merciless discovery of how the SPÖ operates in Vienna and how tax resources are handled.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26547	Magnificence comes to the fore. Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26572	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr. Kucher came to the pult, I already made a appointment in a satire show, because the only thing he was right with in what he said was that Member Becher is a well-known residential law expert. You're right. I've been negotiating with her myself. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Unfortunately, on all other matters, and in particular the way in which he has interpreted the Court of Auditors' report, he is completely in addition. The previous speaker said it: 5 million euros a year for ads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] How many apartments could you clean up for it? I think that hurts the red yourself. I think a real red parish farmer or one from the red community building hurts itself that 5 million euros are simply used for ads and not for renovation. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Mr Kucher said that it would have been particularly important in the government negotiations for the FPÖ. Mr Kucher, you are perfectly right. It was really something really important to me, and we also implemented it, namely that in non-profit housing – and I would have liked to do so in Vienna's municipal construction – the Austrian must have got the apartment above all others. What the Wiener SPÖ does is, rather, condemned terrorists, like the terrorist of the 2nd century. November to throw back an apartment as an Austrian family to give an apartment. The “Kronen Zeitung” researched: Over 5,000 people are waiting for a sponsored apartment in Vienna. What's the SPÖ doing? – She prefers to give her to a terrorist rather than an Austrian. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] The big donors: That the SPÖ dares to say that at all is really adventurous. [[Abg. Matznetter: Adventure...!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you know exactly who probably donated large in Vienna so that he can get a social housing cooperative from MA 50 practically. Do we want to address this issue here? - No, I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26651	Kai Jan Krainer is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26702	First of all: First of all I must say that I think it is very, very courageous when someone comes out of the Economic Union and talks about advertising practice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I think he has enough to do with making it clear in his own ranks. I also find it particularly exciting when the ÖVP talks about community apartments. Let's just bring the historical comparison: When the first municipal apartments were built in Vienna, the ÖVP has claimed that they will collapse within ten years. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, since then you haven't rehabilitated them! Great!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] – No, it is not a single crash, but they are still standing, and there are still happy people – so much to the congregation apartments. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, you haven't rehabilitated her either!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, for a very different reason, I spoke out to Mr Hörl, saying that the 1.5 million euros of retirement or bonus for Abbag's managing director would have been performance-related. [[Abg. Hanger: The 5 million, are they right?]] [[Abg. Hanger: But the 5 million, are they right?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] – To do this, you have to say: In March 2017, they made a contract of 1.5 million euros, setting a number of indicators for the reduction: If more than 63 percent is recovery, he gets 1.5 million euros. [[Abg. Hanger: 5 million for ads! The five million, are they right?]] Do you know what was published in May? – That it is much more. [[Abg. Hanger: 5 million are...!]] Everyone knew. It's been made out at a time, he gets a bonus to which he's guaranteed. With regard to the 1.5 million euros, in fact everyone still has to ask the question: What was his performance? – No performance! The fact that the ÖVP covers people who receive 1.5 million euros of tax money without a benefit You can't be surprised, but it's probably annoyed to us every day that you're dealing with tax money so much and that you can see that your people get such amounts of money without performance. [[Abg. Hanger: The 5 million, are they right?]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Fit!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: That was weak now!]] [[Abg. Hanger: The 5 million, are they right?]] We reject this and rightly criticize it, and that, as I mean, is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26891	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Court of Auditors. [[21:20:45]] Vote on agenda items 15 to 24
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e26919	We are now coming to the votes which have been moved – please pay attention to it, almost nobody is listening at the time – on the reports of the Committee on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which I make separately on each item on the agenda. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and Greens]] I would like to ask the clubs whether an interruption is desirable for the vote. - That's not the case. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report concerning Burgtheater GmbH, III-336 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Request from the Court of Auditors, the report on Federal Monuments; Follow-up review, III-179 of the supplements, to take note. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report concerning ART for ART Theaterservice GmbH; Follow-up review, III-232 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the system of competition authorities outside the financial market, III-43 of the supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on administrative sponsorship and donations in selected Federal Ministries, III-277 of the Supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the management of IT security in the management of selected Federal Ministries, III-410 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on housing in Vienna, III-222 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Court of Auditors, the report on fire protection in the Vienna Court of Justice; Follow-up review, III-51 of the supplements, to take note. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Austrian Cultural Forums, III-10 of the Supplements. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on average income and additional benefits for public-sector pensions of the Federal Republic of Germany 2019 and 2020, III-489 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted, ladies and gentlemen. [[21:24:15]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e27084	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Prince, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 2124/A by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues, a deadline until 19. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[21:24:36]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2022-05-18-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00156_d7e27119	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2505/A(E) to 2554/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9.25 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
