ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10641	Ladies and gentlemen. I can welcome you very warmly and the 139. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I also welcome the journalists at the gallery and the Ladies and gentlemen, who are following our debates at home in front of the screens. [[09:06:21]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of the President of the European Parliament David Maria Sassoli
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10665	At the beginning of the meeting, I would like to remind the former President of the European Parliament of David Sassoli, who was elected on 11 May. January 2022 after a short but severe illness has been separated from life. President Sassoli – I knew him personally – was a large European who, through his special nature in the European Parliament, as I have been assured by many Members, has always tried to achieve a mood which the commoner has put before the divider, and which, with its representatives, has also enabled the European Parliament to remain able to work during the pandemic. He was a great European, who repeatedly stressed the great European unity and also gave the necessary weight to parliamentarianism in Europe. I would therefore ask you to remember at the beginning of this sitting a minute's commemoration of this Parliamentary, which was a model for many of us. [[Those present rise from their seats and persist for some time in silent mourning.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10697	In the Presidential Conference, it was agreed that places in the gallery and at the roof foyer are also available for Members to follow the meeting in order to be able to stay away. The votes are held as usual, and in addition, before the vote, the sitting can always be interrupted briefly. I should also like to say to the spectators at home that we comply with all the corona regulations accordingly. It is recommended to also wear the mask on the seats, and through the plexiglass walls it is possible to ensure adequate protection. We know that the omicron variant is much more contagious. Thank God are many of our colleagues, that is, the excess, since – despite our intensive meeting plan here in Parliament, we have been able to avoid a cluster very well so far. I would also like to say that the gallery is closed to visitors today. It was open the last time, and we will be reassessing from time to time in the Presidential as we are doing. Decisions have also been taken unanimously in the Presidency, as well as on the agenda. The official protocols of 135 and 136. ==References== In December 2021, as well as the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 137. Meeting and the official meeting Protocol of 138. Meeting of 16 March 1990 In December, there was a situation in the Parliamentary Directorate and there were no objections. The MEPs Kira Grünberg, Dr. Gudrun Kugler, Carina Reiter, Johann Singer, Robert Laimer, Maximilian Lercher, Rudolf Silvan, Petra Fürderwinkler, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mag. Ulrike Fischerund Ing. Martin Litschauer. [[09:09:51]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10781	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Member Karl Mahrer has waived his mandate and Mrs Mag. Bettina Rausch was appointed to the National Council. The electorate is already in place and the person mentioned is in the house, and so I am allowed to do the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I can ask the author, Mr Steinacker, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10817	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10845	Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Thank you very much! . I should like to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, in our midst. [[09:10:53]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10876	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck is appointed by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Magnus Brunner, LL.M. I should also like to announce the following regarding the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology Leonore Geessler, BAwird by Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport Mag. Werner Kogler. Federal Minister of the Interior. Gerhard Karner is Mag. Claudia Tanner. Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. As usual, ORF 2 will forward the meeting by 1 p.m., then the OrF III to 19.15 a.m. Afterwards, the meeting will be transmitted in the TV library. Private television stations also transfer the session partly or entirely. [[09:11:46]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10965	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Russia-Ukraine: A strong Austria must actively support the EU in maintaining peace in Europe." As First of all, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. I can tell him that his speaking time is 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e10992	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! “A strong Austria must actively support the EU in maintaining peace in Europe.” We are talking about peace today, but ladies and gentlemen, in Europe war has been waged for eight years. In Ukraine, war is waged, and in these eight years, some 14,000 people have died. Ukraine is a neighbor, is a partner. People are personally connected to us, we are also historically connected, as we know, and the border, the western border of Ukraine is closer from Vienna than the Arlberg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] When I hear again and again: What's this about us? Take care of Austria! I have to say: Yes, a war in Europe concerns us, of course! For example, he met 298 people who died when a Malaysia Airlines machine was fired. 80 children were below. The investigation has clearly shown that this civil aircraft was shot down by a Russian Buk rocket, apparently by pro-Russian rebels. But even more so, we in Austria are part of a peace alliance, this peace alliance Europe. Another thing: In this Europe there are only – and I quote Paul-Henri Spaak – two types of states, namely small states and small states, which do not yet know that they are small states – because even France or Germany, great powers, France as nuclear power, are small in the global dimension. The British are experiencing just how bad they are and how small they have become outside Europe. We have built this common Europe after the worst of all wars, after the Holocaust. This is the greatest achievement ever accomplished in this continent. Mr Schallenberg, I count you, although They are younger, to add: We're the happiest generation ever allowed to live here. We are the happiest Generation, because we have still made the experience and heard how terrible this war was, but we have grown up in prosperity, in peace. There's something else to add: We were allowed to experience – you as a student and I as a correspondent – how the wall went up, as well as the eastern part of Europe, which was controlled by the Soviet Union, was suddenly liberated and how people liberated there. That was a great, great achievement, and we can still congratulate them today and be grateful that we could experience it all this way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is therefore a question of peace in Europe, and to that we must say: Military expert Stefan Gady says that more troops have been marching toward Ukraine for several weeks – the largest Russian ground offensive since World War II. You, Mr Federal Minister, said that this is extremely worrying. I don't think that's enough. The question is: What does Putin really want? Putin has made clear demands: no NATO expansion, no maneuvers in a stripe near Russia and no US nuclear weapons in Europe – but no restrictions on Russia. To this end, expert Gerhard Mangott said quite clearly: Putin knew these demands were unattainable. – Why does he make demands that cannot be reached? Does he want war? And why does he approach Ukraine? I would like to make a small historical demolition, which we have experienced since 1989. So in November 1989 the wall rises, in November 1990, just a year later, Charter of Paris. I was allowed to be there, CSCE closing acts, and finally it was called – literally –: “Democracy, Peace and Unity in Europe”, also the freedom to enter alliances. Yes, it is true that the then Foreign Minister Baker once said to Gorbachev that Nato will not expand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That was a conversation between the two. But then – and we have to look at that too! – there have been very, very many negotiations. I can only recommend this book to you, colleague Kassinger, read Mr Ischinger's book! [[the book “World in Danger. ” Keeping Germany and Europe high in uncertain times” by Wolfgang Ischinger]] In fact, it has broken down very precisely how these negotiations took place and what was in them, namely: Ukraine held a referendum on independence in the East in 1991; then in 1994: Partnership for peace, including with Russia; 1994 the Budapest Memorandum, Ukraine and other States have renounced nuclear weapons, for the security of their borders – clearly, Budapest Memorandum 1994 –; 1997 the Nato-Russia Basic Act: Russia and NATO have decided to work together in the future. Russia was then even in the headquarters of the NATO in Brussels. 1999: Partnership for the peace of NATO-Ukraine. So, and then Putin was in Bonn in 2001 and said: The ideas of freedom have replaced totalitarian-stalinist ideology and Russia is also a friendly European country. In 2007 he gave a very aggressive speech at the Munich Security Conference and said: The United States is striving for world domination, against which we must defend ourselves. What happened in the meantime? – In the meantime, the following has happened: One has seen, as in Western Europe after the war, free societies have developed in many Eastern European countries, societies in which prosperity has grown. Russia was able to benefit from the high oil price for a long time, but when it was not so good, the Russian economy went down. A number that surprised me myself: How high is Russia's GDP? – It is just twice as high as Switzerland, 140 million Russians, 9 million Swiss. That is, Putin has not succeeded in creating prosperity in his country, in the other European states, in those who are with the European Union, there is this prosperity. Ukraine also wants this prosperity, and Putin wants to prevent it. That is the essential reason, because he finally has to explain to his people why they are bad and why they are doing well in Europe. That is a reason, and we must resist it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] We need to negotiate at an eye, Mr Schallenberg, and at the same time, Putin takes us seriously only if he clearly knows that his actions have consequences. I said it to Chancellor Nehammer in the EU's main committee: Nord Stream 2 must, of course, be negotiating mass. When we say, We will definitely open this up, no matter if you attack Ukraine or not!, yes then he will naturally attack Ukraine. I'm looking for You really, Minister of State, say this as clearly as the German Federal Government has said in the meantime: There won't be Nord Stream 2, Mr Putin, if you attack Ukraine! It must be quite clear: We will not trade with you if you attack Ukraine! We have to protect Ukraine, even with Nord Stream 2! It also shows the story: It was finally, and you know that, to disarm the NATO double decision which led the Soviet Union to do so. It is simply not possible in these negotiations to say: Yes, we would have liked you not to, but if, we can't have any consequences either! I think we really have to say very clearly: Dear Mr Putin, hands away from Ukraine! In this context, only one sentence on the Balkans. There too, when you look at the Republic of Srpska, we are experiencing a very dangerous development: the destruction of a already complicated state of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and also that with Russia's support. Then I come back to what I said first: Take care of Austria! Yes, we take care of Austria by ensuring that peace is also in the Balkans, because if there is war again in the Balkans, we will also be affected by it. So we also have to take care of this and say very clearly: Mr Putin, get away from Bosnia-Herzegovina too! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Conversely, there must also be a clear offer. I will come back to Mr Putin again. What did he say? He once said he wished for a free trade zone from Lisbon to Vladivostok. - Yes, let's do it! Let's do it, but first we have to accept the boundaries, we have to accept each other – and then we do business and hope that the Russians will also be better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] Finally, one essential point: I had many conversations with Olexander Scherba when he was still ambassadors to Vienna. He also wrote an interesting book, in English, which I also recommend: ‘Ukraine vs. Darkness’. [[The speaker keeps this book up-to-date.]] Why Darkness? – Putin adviser Surkow says: In the West, in the Liberals, there is the Darkness, and what Russia has is the great one, where we must strive! – We all know from our lives that this is, of course, not at all true. This Surkow also says that Ukraine does not exist at all. If you read this from a Ukrainian who describes what his homeland is, what his country is, it is clear: We must insist that we should: Defence of the country, with clear words, Mr Federal Minister, because it will be too little to say that we are concerned. Yeah, we're worried. We are even very concerned. Above all, however, we want to make it clear that this is not the way to deal with us. We are all Europe together. We have to get up together, we have to be strong together, only then we have a chance. I urge you to implement this internationally, especially within the framework of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11135	I can still welcome Mr Schallenberg very warmly, I did not see him at first, and I immediately gave him the floor. Please, Federal Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for this current hour and for the opportunity to debate it, because I think the situation is really very serious, it is dangerous and incredibly tense. As has already been said, Russia has gathered over 100,000 soldiers on the Ukrainian-Russian border, balling heavy military equipment there. This is a march that can by no means fall into the exercise category. This is a massive threat scene that is being built here, a massive threat scene, supported by Moscow's demand for legally binding security guarantees from the United States and NATO. But quite frankly: You can't negotiate with tanks and missiles, as Secretary of State Antony Blinken said, the gun on the head of Ukraine can't be negotiated. There can only be solutions in the context of the dialogue. It is therefore correct and important, and I expressly welcome the fact that in the last few days the diplomatic channels have run high-speed: on the one hand, between the United States and Russia, between NATO and Russia, and also within the framework – which I consider to be particularly important – the organization for security and cooperation here in Vienna. I support these talks, the serious continuation of these talks. But I would also like to say, because I hear this again and again: I believe that the European Union is not sitting at this table is misguided. Firstly, the European Union is becoming smaller than it is, second, there are enough feedback mechanisms between the European partners and the United States. The Ukraine, which is ultimately involved in this issue, is not sitting at the table, but is constantly involved, as is the European Union. In contrast, I think it is very targeting and correct that in this so tense moment, the United States is talking to the Russians here as a voice of the free world. Just imagine, it would be the other way round, we would have the situation, the Americans would say: Ukraine is not our subject, it is a European issue, we withdraw and do not engage! – The criticism from the European area would be much stronger. But I also see it as you do, honourable Member, that we must not forget about history. And let's not forget, Lemberg is closer to Vienna than Lech am Arlberg! The importance of European integration, the importance and importance of all that is We have been building up over the last 60 years, including the OSCE, including the final act of Helsinki, but also European integration. Yes, the starting point we are facing is anything but simple. It is clear that much of the Russian claims are simply unacceptable, such as legally binding guarantees that Ukraine will never join NATO. We Austrians are not NATO members, and I think that's right, too, we're a neutral state. But just as we have decided our neutrality out of free parts with the Federal Constitutional Act on constantly neutrality, other states can determine their security policy. Finally, it is Allianz itself, the NATO that has to be found over it, and not a third country. Or, for example, Moscow's other demand: legally binding guarantees that Nato should withdraw its scope of influence on the size of 1997. The sentence, which Frank-Walter Steinmeier once coined, continues to apply, and I think it is very important: Sustainable security and stability will not be possible in Europe against Russia, but only with Russia, but it must be aware that Moscow and Russia cannot simply describe history, that the wheel of time cannot turn back. There are also other proposals that Moscow has put on the table, which I consider very useful and which we also want to take positive action within the framework of the European Union: for example, arms control for conventional weapons, the limitation of the stationing of short- and medium-range missiles – I believe it is essential that we continue in this area – and greater transparency in military maneuvers or more confidence-building measures such as hotlines between military devices on both sides. This takes time for serious negotiations and serious negotiations. But that is at the moment, as it seems, the biggest defect. Time seems to run away, because it was quite open: Russia is increasingly turning on the escalation spiral, through joint maneuvers in Belarus, the threat of the stationing of troops in Venezuela and Cuba or cyberattacks that have pitied much of Ukraine. Yes, cyber attacks cannot be clearly attributed, but they are extremely disturbing. One has almost the feeling that we are in the courtyard of a war scene when we are currently looking at the situation in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, Moscow has repeatedly called upon the basic principles of the European security system. And yes, there is a very clear basis for this European security system, a base that Russia has negotiated with, which the United States and all the European States are carrying along, namely the final Helsinki Act of 1975. It is the foundation of the security architecture in this country. Just a country like Austria with its historical experience can appreciate how important this foundation pillar is. The principles of sovereign equality of states, the non-and-threat of violence, the inviolability of borders and territorial integrity, all of this is legally binding in the Final Act of Helsinki. So when it comes to talking and talking about European security architecture, and that is certainly right and true, we must take it as a starting point and remind Moscow that it has committed itself to these principles internationally, under international law. You can't be blind on an eye, or you can make raisin picking. If so, these principles also apply to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. And I totally agree with you. to, honourable Member: Hands away from Ukraine! This is really the core message we are currently dealing with. Last week in France, at the informal Foreign Ministers meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers, we defined a very clear line in the European Union: We are in favour of dialogue, we are in favour of negotiations, but certainly not, never at the expense of security and sovereignty and the independence of our partners! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Oberrauner.]] Quite openly: The Russian narrative that one feels threatened by Ukraine and the West is partly simply not to understand. Not Ukraine has occupied parts of Russia, not Ukraine is equipping and financing separatist movements in Russia. You sometimes feel like it's the arson who now explains he's afraid of the fire. It is in reality – and this is the bitter one – an expression of failure; an expression of failure, because Moscow believes that, similar to in 1956, similar to in 1968, only with tanks and missiles can make its positions heard. If it were Russia with a European stable, sustainable security architecture, then there would be a simple way to show this: to withdraw from Transnistria, to withdraw from Donbass, to withdraw from Crimea, to withdraw from Ossetia, to withdraw from Abkhazia. That would be the way to show: Yes, we take the Helsinki Final Act seriously, yes, we want a sustainable, stable security system in Europe and beyond! Let me make it quite clear: Any further aggression – I emphasize that: any further aggression – against Ukraine will have massive consequences for Russia. The bill will be high – it will be economic and political – but do nothing, put your hands in the lap, and it can't be an appeasement. Do we want that? – Of course not! Would we like to have another situation? – Of course we would like another situation! Especially we Austrians, like other partners, such as Germany, have a massive interest in having a sustainable, stable, eye-to-eye partnership with Russia, but it is not we who make it impossible. I have already said this in this House: Who is the first use of the sanctions regime for cyberattacks? – Russia. The sanctions regimes for human rights? – Russia. Who has repeatedly faced us in Europe with situations that have really challenged us in the broadest sense of the word? - Yes, sir, Russia. We have not put this file, we have not put it in other territories and we will not put our hands in the lap and watch if there are further aggressions. This is, please, the very clear line of this federal government. I kept saying this: Dialogue where possible, edge, where necessary. We are now in a situation where we have to show edge to Russia and not send out false signals. In this context, let me also briefly look at the elephants in the room, if you want to do so; They answered him: North Stream 2. Quite openly: I do not think that the preventive ban on an economic project, which has not even had an operating permit, is a threat to Moscow and not a sensible approach. But I can assure you: If there is an aggression, Europe's response will be completely clear and unmistakable. Our core message is clear: The sovereignty, territorial integrity and the independence of Ukraine are inviolable, are not part of the Negotiating mass of the West with Moscow. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Moscow must understand that there can be no Jalta 2.0 that the European foreign and security policy and the security structure are not being made on the drawing board; a set of spheres of influence across the minds of the peoples concerned. We all know the famous picture, the photo of Winston Churchill, when, so to speak, he painted the European card with felt pen and said: There we have 30 percent influence, their 70 percent, there 50 : 50! It used to be. It didn't work then, and now it doesn't work at all! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Fireplaces.]] I will also be very conscious at the beginning of February with my Czech and Slovak colleagues in Slavkov format to Kiev and to the contact line in the East, to Donbass – as a clear signal, as a clear central European signal of support, solidarity, commitment to integrity, sovereignty, Ukraine's integrity. I already mentioned it, we don't forget one thing: In this context, it is not a far-off country in the East – as has been said, the Ukrainian border is closer to us in Vienna as Vorarlberg – it is also about our own security, so there can be no misunderstood neutrality there either. In this sense, Austria will continue to work for a strong, action-oriented and solution-oriented EU position in Brussels, for sustainable relaxation and for greater security and stability in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11274	Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11296	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Foreign Minister, thank you for the statement, but above all for the clear positioning you have clearly expressed for the Austrian Federal Government and for us. “A strong Austria must actively support the EU in maintaining peace in Europe.” Who does not agree with this statement here in Parliament? No one is in conflict with this. However, I would like to say that in recent weeks, of course, a lot has passed the EU. Foreign Minister Schallenberg said: There has been negotiations between the US and Russia, there has been negotiations in the NATO Russia Council, and, for Austria and for Vienna, the OSCE, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has been in direct negotiations with Russia. The European Union has not negotiated directly, it must already be seen, but the European Union has been called upon to demand Ukraine's sovereignty. 44 million Ukrainians should have it in their own hands, as they see their future in their country and how they want to shape their country in future security policy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Reimon.]] More than 14,000 people – they have already been addressed – have been killed in the fights between the Ukrainian government forces and Russia-backed separatists in Ukraine in the Donbass in recent years, according to UN estimates. But now it is about preventing a great war, which could take place on the soil of Ukraine, and I believe that the European Union should be more involved. So far, it has been France and Germany in the so-called Normandy format, which is strongly committed to resolving this conflict. “Our common goal is the normal work of the Normandy format and a new meeting in the Normandy format,” said the new German foreign minister Annalena Baerbock a few days ago in Moscow and previously in Kiev. I also see it as a step in this direction, if our Foreign Minister is now on the move with the Czech and Slovak colleagues to push for this dialogue, because war can never be the answer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, according to estimates by Ukrainian and Western experts, the danger is very high. President Putin has gathered 100,000 soldiers on the Ukrainian border, according to New York Times and U.S. intelligence information, he is able to make 175,000 soldiers march there within a very short time; there are also military exercises in Belarus. On the other hand, Ukraine has a total force of 200 000 men. Unfortunately, after the discussions held in Geneva, Brussels and here in Vienna, the danger of war was not reduced, but increased. Despite our geographical proximity, which has already been addressed by the Foreign Minister, we are struggling because, of course, our basic attitude, our policy understanding is different from that of Putin. Putin works with intimidation, Putin works with military power, and although the European Union is a world power and for Russia is an important trading partner, of course, we are not militaryly opposed to what Putin can actually bring to think and to think about its position. This crisis must also be a wake-up call for the EU to learn the “language of power”, as EU Commission President Ursula of the Leyen has formulated. Because there is no way to go by that the EU shoulders its responsibility for security in our neighbourhood. And this path must support Austria. But whatever Austria can do – and this is what Parliament is doing – I am able to thank the President very much for that – that we are specifically helping. In these days again, ten Russian and ten Ukrainian children are here to recover. – A humanitarian gesture, an important signal that we, as Austria, are sending out to the children in this crisis-stricken country. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to finish. In addition to the EU, the OSCE is also required. In the OSCE, the US, Russia, Ukraine and all EU countries are represented, and it has been created to bring security to Europe. And the OSCE has the know-how to do that. I very much hope that the security of Europe is that the OSCE can still bring Russia and Ukraine to the negotiating table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11369	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11390	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! For those who think Ukraine is far away and the things that happen there do not really concern us, I should try a distance comparison: I looked at the airlines between Vienna and Bregenz, the most western capital of the country, and this airline is 500.38 kilometres. The airline from Vienna to Ushhorod, which is the westernmost provincial capital of Ukraine, is 439.69 kilometres. [[Abg. Deimek:... it only applies to the border region! That's if you can't get geography!]] This is much less and shows that we are not in the distance, but very close. What can also be observed, unfortunately, is that the conflict between Russia and, above all, Ukraine is growing more and more. It reminds us of a time when we thought it was over, a time when the Cold War threatened our country, the danger of war was real, and a nuclear war also had something from reality. In order to know how things might be handled, perhaps to solve, one must also highlight the background of this conflict, and if one does, and that is what the former Secretary-General of the OSCE Lamberto Zannier has correctly described, then it is also, if not mainly, a conflict with NATO and Ukraine. As Austrians, we, like all Europeans, are directly affected by this threat to peace in Europe. And in my opinion, it is the first objective of the Austrian Federal Government not to put its head in the sand, but to be active here. This conflict concerns us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] We – and I believe that we all agree here – do not want to intensify the conflict towards a military dispute. That is why we demand from the Austrian Federal Government, in particular you, Mr Foreign Minister, a truly committed and truly good commitment, which is de-escaling. I think this is also our common task to try diplomatically to achieve a de-escalation of this conflict, on the one hand bilaterally, but of course also within the framework of our membership in the OSCE, because the escalation potential – that is to be said quite openly – is a really high one. The announced Russian maneuvers are certainly not helpful and de-escaling, and the British arms supplies are certainly not de-escaling either. It must also be said, however, that the recent regulation that trans-regional newspapers in Ukraine may only appear in Ukrainian language is not helpful, because the principle of freedom of the press has to be applied everywhere, not only if one is right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Pressure creates counter-pressure – we know it very well from human history – and often it was so that this pressure and counter-pressure prevented more peaceful solutions than promoted. And if some are already talking about a wretching war: Everything must be done to prevent a hot war between Russia and Ukraine and to take precautions there, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also about peace and security in Europe. The question is that we, as the seat of the OSCE, are in a massive position, and it is also about a stronger role of the European Union in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I can well remember how the people, when they got to these battles at Majdan Square, beat the barricades. Members of my group from the European Parliament were there at the time and reported that in their courage and despair, people had risen to the Barricads and carried the Ukrainian flag before themselves. But they have also carried the European star banner on these barricades, hoping that Europe will offer them a future. And we should not let this hope – as Europeans and as Austrians – be disappointed together, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11448	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11469	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The title of this current hour is: “A strong Austria must actively support the EU in maintaining peace in Europe.” – Of course, this raises the question: What role does the European Union have to play in actively shaping peace in Europe? Or: In this context, how serious is the European Union taken by the Russians, by the Americans, by Nato, by whoever? The sad certainty is that the European Union is not taken particularly seriously to formulate it. Even if the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy - Foreign Minister is not allowed to say because the corresponding Constitution, as we know, was rejected by the French and Dutch in 2005 by popular decision - Josep Borrell regrets this and says that we must not be spectators, no unparticipated spectators, and that even compares it with Yalta 2.0 – which I think is a bit overwhelming – then he is quite right, but with Josep Borrell no one will talk now, at least not the Russians. The Russians have made far-reaching proposals, treaty proposals, on the one hand addressed to the US and on the other hand to the Nato – these are the organizations or countries that the Russians seem to want to talk to – to solve this problem kindly, even before Christmas. There's nothing going on at all. Why is the European Union not taken seriously in this context? – Well, if you, Mr Foreign Minister, and also your predecessor, Foreign Minister Linhart – and I assume very strongly that you also have similar principles – among other things, as one of the three most important things postulates the perfect commitment to the transatlantic alliance as the basis of your foreign policy, then you must not be surprised, because if you formulate it a little less friendly or more directly, then that basically means – and that is taking place – we are doing the reason for what the United States of America wants, and are the best partners – in order to formulate it again kindly – of the United States of America. That is to say, the EU, with such a unilateral policy itself, takes every opportunity to develop its own profile. How does that work? – We know that geopolitically very, very much is happening right now. I believe that we are at the threshold of this monocratic, imperial structure of the United States of America, which, as it were, dominates the world. Strong players, especially China, but also Russia, come back into a consolidation phase, so to speak, they appear geopolitically as players. Where is the EU? – Now, if I'm giving out the slogan: We are unconditionally loyal to the transatlantic alliance, then there is no way for an EU profile. Of course, we also have the problem – with no quotation marks – that we have a parallel structure, namely the Nato, and that is what it is all about. Of course, NATO membership plays a role, in many cases there is also a parallel membership of the European Union. In the specific case of Ukraine, it is addressed to NATO and not to the European Union. This is relative simple. Austria has a good chance – because we are not members of NATO, but neutral – because in the good old tradition, we can act as a bridge builder and make up for balance. The whole thing is too black-and-white, too very good and evil: U.S. good, Russia evil. It's not like that! The world is not black-and-white, but there are different grey tones, and you have to take at least the concerns and concerns of the Russians seriously – and I'm not a Putin friend for a long time – and you can't just wipe them out of the table. There has, of course, been a massive expansion of the Nato towards the East and there are security needs of the Russians. You have to take note of that. Imagine what the Americans would do, would say Cuba, Venezuela, or Mexico to be a member of a Russian military community! Here, too, the Americans would say: This is not necessarily compatible with our security needs, with our national security, and the alarm bells are ringing in us! – I think you have to admit that to the Russians. You must not let that be escalated now. Mr Leichtfried has already said that these military concentrations are, of course, escalating, but, of course, arms deliveries and supplies of troops, such as those of the British, are also not de-escaling. I come to the end of the sentence and I am with Mr Lopatka: Which format is suitable? – Minsk II is obviously not suitable. I see that bilateral negotiations are not suitable either, Yalta 2.0 is not. I see a great opportunity in the framework of the OSCE to sit at a table together and work out de-escaling solutions. The European Union does not really matter to me in this process.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11525	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11546	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kassinger, you could have been transparent now, and you could have told the television audiences that the FPÖ had a friendship agreement with Putin five years ago, which he left only a month ago, and that, of course, you do not know who the good and who the bad is when troops march there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] You could have made the declaration of transparency from the speaker's desk right now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: I did this at my last speech, but you weren't there!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Wasn't you there last time?]] The fact is that Europe is facing a problem, facing a major problem, it is rolling towards us. Austria is militaryly neutral, but we really do not have to be politically neutral if we stand at the threshold of war. Putin has been waging war in Ukraine, Donbass, with regular troops and with the support of militias for eight years. He has unlawfully occupied Crimea. In the Baltic region, where there are large Russian minorities – the three states are still EU members – there is, of course, the fear that he is doing exactly the same as in Ukraine, where this has happened twice and has gone through it twice. We as the European Union will not come around to ask this matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] If he can wage war in Donbass for eight years and occupy Crimea, he believes that he can now take the third step and conquer the land connection to Crimea. This is exactly what this is all about, and we will have to stop that. Most of the EU members are NATO members, and this is a problem. This is a problem for Austria as a neutral country if it does not become a NATO member and does not want to be drawn in, but it is a huge chance, and we should use it actively, Mr Foreign Minister, I think. The Nato herself says she won't attack guns, she won't attack. It has no interest in military escalation, there will be economic sanctions. But then this is an EU issue, then this is our topic, and then we sit there at the table. [[Abg. Deimek:... the gas in hand! You always forget that... foreign policy muffler!]] The European Union is responsible for everything below the war threshold. There Austria is on the row, and I expect to have a strong role in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There is a good example of such bets. In Bosnia-Herzegovina, NATO was first the peacekeeping force with the SFOR troops that were replaced by the Eufor troops, by European EU troops or EU-backed troops. The commander, who now provides peace with his troops there, is even an Austrian. We can play an active role, should play an active role and should continue to do so in good Austrian tradition in the last decades at least for peace in Europe. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There must be an independence of the European Union from Putin. If he has no interest in being a constructive partner, if he has no interest in interacting economically with us and building up his own country, then we have to take consequences, then we have to make ourselves economically and raw materials independent. The fact that we depend on the Russian gas is a scandal. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] It is also, I would also like to say, not to accept, of course, ecologically, that we are still making ourselves dependent on this raw material. For this reason, we should perhaps think more than just about Nord Stream 2 and use it more than just as a means of printing in this crisis, we should cancel – away from that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Summary: I expect and hope that we will be active in the next few months and that there will be no full military escalation. But when it comes to this, and then to an economic struggle for the freedom of Ukraine, to an economic struggle for peace, I expect Austria to insist that the European Union has an important role there, progresses peacefully and puts a lot of pressure on the Russian aggressor. We cannot let this be offered in Europe, that minorities should be lifted up and controlled in civil wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11649	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11670	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have already experienced you more courageously, and I would not attribute this to you personally, but rather to the fact that the foreign policy line of Austria For decades, it has been frozen and it has not been thought specifically to deal with a little more self-critically, whether this is still useful. Mr Lopatka at least tried this. He questioned why, as a European Union, we do not have these means of printing we would need to get up accordingly. We agree, I believe, what happens when Russia continues to escalate militaryly, but the question is how we can prevent such situations in the future and how we as the European Union will manage to have a single line in the future and also the means of pressure to hear the European voice. As a result, it doesn't make much sense to say again and again in Sunday's speeches: We are in favour of a determined action!, and as Austria we are unfortunately very often hiding behind our history. You know that we as NEOS and also I personally are neutral in the 21st century. At the end of the century, it was not necessarily a suitable concept to tackle the challenges we face worldwide and also in Europe. With this insistence on neutrality, we are weakening Austria's position on the one hand, and we are also weakening the European position on the other, and I do not think it is right. We must further develop and consider how we can prevent such situations in the future, namely the aggression that Russia has shown over the past years and also before. We must come to a rethinking and have clear answers to how we oppose Russia so that it no longer has the opportunity to expand its hegemonial position, its sphere of influence. This requires a proper rethinking in Austria and in the European Union, because if we do not finally manage to speak with one voice, if we really do act in a foreign political way in the future, then we need not be surprised, honestly, if we do not take ourselves very seriously. Mr Federal Minister, you have said that you are glad that the United States is negotiating and acting there as the voice of freedom. – Yes, I am also glad that the USA is happening here because we as the European Union cannot or cannot do it enough. What French President Macron has said is something I would at least agree with: He considers it absurd – and I also think that this is entirely in addition – that the question of whether there is war in Europe is negotiating the US and Russia while we are not self-confident and can clearly say: We need to get involved in this and to do something about it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We do not need to be surprised, even though European foreign policy is always the smallest common denominator of 27 Member States. Every foreign minister goes to Ukraine first, then he tries to negotiate in Russia; we are informed by the USA – as you have said – we see what we get for this information. And yes, the European Union is a peace project, is the greatest peace project, but it must also be clear to us that we need to learn to raise our voices accordingly, not only with economic sanctions, because we realize that Russia's response to it is somewhat restraint and the impression is not very great. Although Emmanuel Macron belongs to my party family, I am not in his opinion on all questions, even on many questions. But where he is right, it is when he makes it clear that we need to think about a new European security system. The need to ignore the need for a common European army and, as Austria again and again, to resort historically to the fact that we have neutrality, and not to consider how we have Europeans. I believe that security and foreign policy can develop further, and that is not really worthy of an Austrian position. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Lopatka said: We need a pressure medium, a military pressure medium – it's logical that if we have corresponding troops and we can stand up and say: Look, there's no step forward here, too, and here's a border that's being defended!, Russia's going to be impressed. I'm convinced: If we want to be taken seriously as a Europe in the world – and I want to – then we need to think seriously about it and develop ourselves. That is to say, a genuine common foreign and security policy is needed, and a common European army is also an essential part of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11746	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11767	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear, ladies and gentlemen! We are now facing the most tense military situation in Europe since the Cold War. I would like to mention three points that seem just important to me. It has already been said by all my previous speakers: Ukraine is a sovereign state, it has a right of self-determination, and how Ukraine goes its way, Ukraine is to decide. It is – perhaps you have to take back a bit – a long history of oppression. There were always dominant powers in Ukraine. Ukraine is a relatively young state on its way to learn this self-responsibility for itself. If we often, as I sometimes feel, look down a bit or many feel that it is a banana republic that is quite far away, then you have to say: That's not her. But it is essentially the thing that democracy must also be learned. When we look: The Tsar kingdom, the Habsburg Empire, Poland, Russia, of course, in many eras – Ukraine was simply always a stranger, it was a foreign domination there. This claim, which Russia is now making, cannot simply be accepted as an EU, as a Europe, but also as Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For me it was an experience, I remember: The Orange Revolution – it really impressed me at the time. At that time the interest in this country arose for me. Many people have left their lives, many people have fought for democracy, for freedom. As Europe, we must never accept, as democracies, that in today's time, with archaic means, archaic demonstrations of power to shift borders, there is at all a claim to proceed with tanks. Secondly, because it is always the subject: Why do we have to interfere here? – Of course, it matters to us in Austria! One of my previous speakers, I think, Jörg Leichtfried, said it's exactly 600 kilometers. If you put yourself in the car for 6 hours, you're already in Ukraine, so it's much closer than we believe or believe in many of us, and Ukraine is also very, very essential to us in terms of security policy. It is 100 percent on European soil, and we must, of course, commit ourselves to this neighboring state – it is a fast-paced state. The third issue, which I think is very important, is the historic opportunity for the EU. I think it is an opportunity that we are now taking on responsibility that we are a strong EU, that we show that we play a role, including in this game of powers – Europe, China, in many, of course, Russia – in which everyone has their own interests. We must demonstrate that we as the EU are strong partners that we belong together – and that is not Germany, that is not France, but we can all make a statement together now, which we as the EU are capable of doing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Foreign Minister Baerbock was in Ukraine recently, and there were also different reports. I believe that what is very important is that we still have much more understanding that we want to be a strong partner as a Europe. I now consider this whole conflict – if one sees it as a kind of relationship conflict: What roles could we have here? What's this about? – It is about belonging, about identity, about oppression, about subjection, about self-esteem, about mass fairs. This is actually a toxic relationship between states, you can say. Is it anything to us or is it none of our business? – We are certainly not arbitrators, we can communicate and we can advise, and that is our historic task. I think Austria is very, very good, especially as regards diplomatic relations as regards exchange. We have economic interests, cultural interests. Looking back – and it is simply the most difficult situation we have ever faced since the Cold War – I have found a quote that I found quite appropriate, which is the quote of the Cold War: “Whoever shoots first dies as a second.” – That’s exactly how the situation is. It can only create a loose-less situation. As Austria, we must also contribute to this, and we must, above all, act as a stronger Europe, that we are a strong EU and that we really are now taking advantage of our opportunity to show that we stand together as Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11839	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11861	“The war is a mere continuation of politics with other means,” writes Carl von Clausewitz in 1832 in his book “From Wars”. I think this sentence also corresponds to the military doctrine of Russia. That a possible war is as close as rare in the recent past, we have heard several times now, with several kilometers of comparison. I think the lesson from it is simple and touching that Donetsk and Luhansk are not somewhere in the vast Wild East, but almost in front of our doorstep. In the context of the EU's Eastern Partnership, a great deal of money has flown billions of euros to help these six countries, which include the Eastern Partnership, I say now, with the effect that economic growth is very irregular, that, although corruption has often been revealed but has not been eliminated for a long time, reforms have been reversed, either not at all or if, then insufficiently implemented, and unfortunately, in the EU also awareness of the strategic importance of this Eastern area. Partnership has fallen to the strategic importance of these six states, as has the external threat of these six states by Russia and its allies. This also has the consequence that Russia and the USA, in particular, are negotiating the future of Ukraine. I made relatively long calls last night with Martin Sajdik, who had been Special Missionary of the OSCE for four and a half years for this conflict. Martin assures you that the OSCE monitoring in the Eastern Ukraine is really great and very, very important. What is absolutely missing is the political pressure that those who monitor there also have real access, free access, safe access to all areas, including in Russia, which would be necessary. However, what is missing in parallel is the political pressure that Russia is also acting in accordance with the agreement. I must have laughed when Russia demanded these days that the Minskan Treaties be finally implemented. Russia is far from complying with the Minsk Treaties, for example, when it comes to the fact that it should long ago be Ukraine, which is monitoring the borders in the separatist territories. Moreover, there is no political pressure that the Budapest Memorandum, as far as the integrity of Ukraine's borders is concerned, would only somehow be respected by Russia. Why is this pressure missing? Why is this pressure missing both in the European Union and in Austria? – Among other things, it is because there are quite a lot of economic interests that exist: because there are Austrian companies that have invested in Russia, because there are Russian companies in Austria, in the EU that are putting pressure on them, and – this is probably the worst or the worst factor why this political pressure does not come about – because we are simply and decisively dependent on Russian gas supplies, since generations of economic and environmental ministers since Martin Bartenstein – especially ministers of the ÖVP – have not managed to bring about the energy transition that we need at last, because they have failed to really expand renewable energy sources in a way that we are no longer dependent on imports of fossil energy sources. In this context, it is a joke that a climate protection law in Austria has been missing for over a year now, that we do not know what objectives we actually have regarding climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer]] This is really threatening, and it is seen that climate policy also has a multiple global dimension, such as a security dimension. You know, I have been in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for four years now, and when I got there in 2018, there have been sanctions against Russia due to Ukraine's occupation, and then Russia has returned in the summer of 2019 on hard negotiations. I can tell you that the talks and the negotiations have since become much more strenuous and nervous, that there are much more empty kilometers, that it is really, really laborious, and yet I believe that it is better that Russia sit at the table and that we talk to Russia and not talk about Russia. From well-informed sources, I know that Putin is afraid of two things: These are massive demonstrations against his government in Russian cities, and this is or would be a arrest warrant for his person concerning, for example, the International Criminal Court on the grounds of international crimes which the ICC is investigating. That's why I think it's so incredibly important – and I've been trying to talk to Ukrainian Members for about six years now – that the Ukraine ratifys the Roman Statute that Ukraine joins the International Criminal Court. I believe that this would be a very, very important step: As soon as there is a presentation of Selenskyj, this step could really take place, because now there is a majority in the Rada, and the accession of Ukraine to the ICC would be an important step so that Russia does not continue its policy by other means. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11930	Member of the Bösch European Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e11951	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Nord-Stream project, this gas pipeline from Russia, has been addressed by some previous speakers and also by you, Federal Minister. I believe that this will only be a political factor if the apartments are going to be cold in Berlin and Vienna; then we will have to think about the form in which we continue to act in this regard. But you, Mr. Federal Minister, correctly presented it: We are in a very difficult situation because we have very many players in this conflict. We have the US, we have Russia and we have the affected country, Ukraine, but we also have the Baltic countries, EU Member States who are naturally afraid, because these countries can look back half a century of Russian iron fist of the Russian bear, who know what it means to come to the big-powered twin-mills with their own interests, and who, accordingly, critically appreciate the Russian bears. There is also the Nato. These Baltic states, these EU members, have also become members of NATO, Minister of State, for good reason, because they do not trust the European Union and its structures. They recognise the structural weakness of the European Union, which has also been addressed by various previous speakers, and have joined NATO. Nato is the only military alliance in the world now operating. We are grateful that we had over half a century of cold war as NATO's protective force. But this is not the NATO alone, because it is also the military arm of the US foreign policy, and this is the case in this conflict before us, too. This role of NATO in securing the US's foreign policy here is an essential point. After the collapse of the Iron Curtain, Nato has expanded to the east without frontiers, and Russia is fighting this enlargement. Let us remember the sixties when the Soviet Union wanted to station at the doorstep of the United States, in Cuba, nuclear missiles! This has been prevented – fortunately for all of us in the West – then, but it points out that there are our own security interests of great powers, and the US has been waging war around their markets since its inception, for 200 years. This is so with great powers, that is what others do, and no one in this world can prevent. But we, Mr Federal Minister, are a neutral country, and the essential point here is not neutrality, but that we are the only central European EU member country that is not a full member of NATO. We would have the opportunity to offer ourselves as a mediator: as a mediator for both sides who are in this conflict. At present, this seems insoluble. As the Republic of Austria, we should offer ourselves as intermediaries to ensure that we also live an equidistantly between Washington and Moscow. Es We must be clear, not only as Austrians, but also as Europeans, that we both need: We need Washington, but we also need Moscow. You, Mr Federal Minister, rightly mentioned that no peace in Europe will be possible without Russia. That is why I would like to call on you to live this equivalence at European level and not simply look at what the EU partners are looking forward to. That, I believe, is the wrong way Austria can go in Europe. Remember the time of our common government, the government of the liberals and the ÖVP! There we have succeeded in moving independently at European level, both in the issue of immigration and in foreign policy. You should take this as an example, Minister of State. You should make more efforts in this direction, and this should be worth our country and peace in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12003	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12024	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! We are talking today about the conflict of the two largest states in Europe. This concerns many people – 41 million people live in Ukraine when we speak of Ukraine – and yes, Austria too is economically affected. We are the sixth largest investor in Ukraine, 150 Austrian companies have branches in the country, including for a very long time large companies such as Raiffeisen, Red Bull or Porsche. We import a lot from Ukraine – raw materials such as iron ore – and export a lot there. The conflict concerns us massively. What can we do? – It was already the talk of the EU’s Eastern Partnership. It has existed since 2009. Six countries including Ukraine are involved in the Eastern Partnership. This is an attempt to work intensively with these countries, but it is not a Brussels versus Moscow project. For example, it is a cooperation at the level of resistance, for example in the fight against disinformation and cyber or hybrid threats – it is supported. It is a reconstruction and it supports reforms such as those relating to the rule of law and governance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is also the EU strategic compass. This is an EU initiative aimed at strengthening security and defence policy in the coming years. I don't want to do that now. I would like to talk about sanctions, which is the third instrument available to us. I agree that as Austria, we have a responsibility when the EU has a responsibility to participate there, sanctions should be necessary. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On this occasion I would like to mention: Despite existing sanctions, the EU remains Russia's most important trading partner and Russia is the EU's fourth most important trading partner. So there's a lot to do. I come to the fourth point, which is very important to me and which seems to me to be a good way out of this mill: strategic autonomy. This has not been so much the case yet. Strategic autonomy means: We all remember the beginning of the Covid-19 Pandemic, no protective equipment was available throughout Europe. We had to order them in China. There was a dependency, and precisely this one. We need to reduce dependencies, we need to reduce dependence on individual countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This concept of strategic autonomy is therefore about strengthening our multilateral action, that is to say building trade relations with many different countries, reducing the dependence on individual countries and thus being less susceptible to external threats. That is also a dimension of the current conflict, because we depend on fossil raw materials from Russia, Kazakhstan, from these eastern countries. We need to reduce this dependence, and for that we have a good solution: We need a massive increase in renewable energy, which we have in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, it is not only the dependence on raw materials, but also the technological dependence – technological dependence, for example, again on Asian countries. This is about semiconductor technologies. So, too, we need to increase our independence in a massive way by investing in these areas and becoming more resilient. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs Melchior and Wöginger.]] It's quite clear: This does not mean that we are abandoning multilateralism, i.e. cooperation with many countries, but that means strengthening our own resilience. The resolution of the conflict will nevertheless be in multilateral negotiations, not only between Russia and Ukraine, but also multilaterally. And both the EU and Austria must be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12109	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectator at home! We've heard a lot about Russia's fear of NATO today, the fear of incarceration, security concerns, and much more. Forerunners are also understandable fears, but if you look at the story since the end of the Cold War, these perceived fears do not really fit together. I'll get you together. Russia has accepted NATO enlargement in several steps, for example in the 1990 Charter of Paris. Russia clearly says that every state can decide its own orientation – politically, security policy, economically – with its alliances. The Nato Russia Basic Act has agreed on what both sides are allowed and what is not. And that's what the Nato kept. In 1993, Russia guaranteed the sovereignty of its borders in the Budapest Memorandum of Ukraine. In 2010, then Russian President Medvedev, after a great wave of NATO enlargement, said that Russia and Nato finally got under control of their strained relationship. That doesn't sound like a panic fear of the West, especially since NATO has also made it quite clear that it will not interfere in Ukraine's interests as long as there is a dire conflict. Why are these overwhelming reactions right now? Why now make public demands that can simply never be accepted? Is Putin actually expecting a capitulation of the West? Or is Putin just looking for a war pretext to put the blame on the West, because it is so inflexible? In my opinion, the background is not primarily Russia's fear of Ukraine. It's the Ukrainian model that scares Putin so much. Ukrainians are Slavs, they are part of the Russian cultural circle and, as Putin himself likes to repeat, they are part of the Russian people. So if the Ukrainians, who are part of the Russian people, compare Europe and Russia and then turn to Europe, yes, the Putin also hurts. A Russian culture at the borders of Russia, which turns away from Moscow and with it from Putin, shows that the culture of the strong man may be in bubbling. Of course, this cannot allow Putin and must also become active there. Now Ukraine has a lot of problems. Corruption is omnipresent, freedom of the media is not guaranteed. Politics is often chaotic. There is a civil society that is surrounded by democracy. This is precisely what Putin wants to prevent in his Russia, which is about democracy, this civil society, this warring pluralism. In Ukraine, people are ringing around their future, in Russia Putin and a small circle want to determine the future of people. And, of course, that doesn't work out. A Slavic neighbor, even worse: a Russian neighbor who shows an alternative model must not be. So now Putin is not just fighting NATO, he's actually fighting our lifestyle. He fights Europe. He fights our values and we just have to defend them. We must defend our European values, because it is always worth fighting for our values. So what can Europe do? You, Mr Minister, have also said that we cannot leave Ukraine to ourselves. The conflict is not one that is far away and can leave us cold. It is about attacking an autocrat against a state that wants to turn to the model of the free West. There are several examples where Putin has also intervened, for example, in Kazakhstan, where people wanted freedom and Putin supports a carcrat. Belarus: The same thing happens there, the same rings for freedom, the same rings for self-determination. And again Putin is there on the side of the dictatorship. Mr Lopatka has already said that the negotiations are over. Maybe that's not quite true either. As you have rightly said, Federal Minister, the EU is well integrated by the American partners, but it is clear: If we do not sit at the table and as long as we do not have anyone who speaks with one voice for us, we are not an acceptable negotiating partner, because if you always go back and have to vote the line together with 26 colleagues, we are not a partner who is taken seriously. We therefore need a common foreign policy, we need the common European Foreign Minister or the common European foreign and security minister to move forward. In the meantime, we must support Ukraine and confess to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12182	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:29:22]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12206	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to the communication distributed in the meeting room in accordance with § 23 para. 4 references. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12550	Furthermore, the following item of the negotiation has been reached: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Lithuania on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Lithuania on the promotion and protection of investment in 1310 of the Supplements. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to take this into account when drawing up the agenda for one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then I assume that this will be done accordingly. Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 8500/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12580	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 8500/AB of Question No 8672/J by Mr Worm, colleagues on the "Repent of aspiration in the case of intramuscular injections in relation to the recommendations of the RKI" by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12601	I should also like to say that Mr Lindner has requested that the Justice Committee report on the application 1523/A concerning “a federal law amending the Criminal Code 1974” a period of time until 31. ==References== The present request shall be put to the vote in accordance with the rules of procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12622	In order to be able to negotiate item 38, it is according to § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Council of Magistrates of the City of Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Klubobmann Herbert Kickl, 1326 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, with the exception of the deadline for the Committee's report, give their agreement to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12652	The debate on points 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 15 to 20, 21 to 29, 30 to 33 and 34 to 37 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12673	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates. Today we have a day block time of 9 “Vienna hours”, so the speaking time is as follows: ÖVP 176, SPÖ 122, FPÖ 99, Green 90 and NEOS 72 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 36 minutes, the speaking time per debate 5 minutes. I can come to the vote in a moment. If you agree with the speaking times presented, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – That too is unanimous. Thank you. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:33:02]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1293, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Electricity Tax Act, the Transparency Database Act 2012, the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Financial Balance Act 2017 and the National Emissions Trading Act 2022 (Ecosocial Tax Reform Act 2022 Part I – EcoStRefG 2022 Part I) (1306 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1292, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Regional Climate Bonus (Climabonus Act – KliBG) (1307 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1294, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Agricultural Social Insurance Act (Ecosocial Tax Reform Act 2022 Part III – EcoStRefG 2022 Part III) (1308 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12737	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I would like to welcome Mr Kogler, Federal Minister Brunner and Minister of State Mückstein. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. I can give him the word. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12767	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating the tax reform today. There are a number of points that we like to support and support. This is essentially about reducing taxes on work. On the one hand, it is a reduction in the rates of income, wage tax, on the other hand, in the increase of the so-called social security bonus and in the amount of deposits, which means that people working for their money pay less tax. That's right, that's important, we're very happy to support it. We also recognise that the government is becoming smarter through the debate. In the original draft there were a few strokes of turtles inside, such as those that the tax reduction occurs under age, which would have led to an incredible bureaucratic effort, or that one does not take the instrument of the social security bonus, but lowers the health insurance contributions and makes complex refunding variants. It is good that you have taken into account not only the proposals of the opposition – the Social Democratic Party and other opposition parties – but also those of the Chamber of Workers, Trade Unions and so on. We support that. What is essentially happening is that taxes are reduced on work, about in the amount of what people pay more on taxes through the cold progression – I think, even a little less – because in our system we have an automatic tax increase for those who go to work and pay taxes because of their work. They're given it back to them. That's good, we think that's right. But for those who do not work for their income – there is also income from capital or wealth – there is no cold progression. However, taxes will also be reduced for those who do not pay any more taxes. The government itself says in the prognosis: Those who work for their incomes will pay 25 to 30 percent more tax over the next five years – these are the government figures – and those who have capital and wealth will not pay more than today. That's what the government numbers say. We reject that. Of course, we ask ourselves the question: Why does the government do that? Why does it aggravate our tax structure problem, namely that labour and consumption are too taxed today, while capital and assets are too low? Why does it make the world worse in this regard? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few weeks ago, we were all allowed to read through the publication of chat news, which is apparently the self-understanding of the ÖVP and the ÖVP employees in ÖVP cabinets. There writes an old-fashioned ÖVP cabinet member to a young one: You're working in an ÖVP cabinet! You're the whore of the rich! – And the young, not yet experienced, answers: Thank you for being able to talk so openly about it! Apparently, then, it is the self-understanding of the ÖVP and, above all, those who do not know and who implement politics in the government offices, that they have to be there for the rich and the powerful, and not for those who work hard every day, not for the broad masses, only for the millionaires, not for the millions of Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we look at what this tax reform means for them, we see: Yes, the ÖVP makes policy for the millionaires, for the billionaires, but not for the millions of Austrians. It lowers the corporate taxes, i.e. the taxes for those companies that today – as all the experts agree – contribute too little anyway. I know there are also many small GmbHs that will now pay around 100, 200 or 300 euros less taxes, but the big ones pay by 1, 2 or 3 million euros less taxes. 80 percent of the volume of reduction is due to 2 percent of the largest companies in Austria. That means you're making policy for the very big corporations. A few brösels also fall for the little ones, but you are about the billionaires and the big corporations, not about small businesses, because otherwise you would make a completely different policy. Then, for example, you would lower the minimum corporation tax, because it would benefit the little ones and not the big ones. But you're talking about the big ones, you're about the billionaires and the corporations. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] If we look at how you implement the tax laws or how a billionaire like Mr Wolf treats the tax officials, we are afraid and afraid. At this point, really a great thank you to the many, many tax officials, who don't care if someone is called Wolf and is a billionaire, and who insists that – against the will of the ÖVP – he has just as much to pay his taxes. – Thank you for the backbone and that in truth You found out! It was officials who made this ad against well-known EIA representatives because they worked for the billionaires. There you can see: He gets a tax prescription – I think it was 12 million euros – that he has to pay. And what does the ÖVP do? – She advocates that he should pay only 7 or 8 million euros instead of 12. Then he still has to pay interest, and the ÖVP is committed to not having to pay it either. The little ones have to pay every euro, which is deducted from the salary to beg each euro so that they can get it back. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Double builder]] With the rich, with the billionaires, make sure they don't pay taxes as much as possible. To announce that you want to reduce the price gain tax: I know there are also small investors who need to pay 100, 200, perhaps 1000 euros of tax and would be happy if they didn't have to pay them. This is only about a few million euros that have to pay less taxes, but it's about hundreds of millions – hundreds of millions! – for the billionaires in this country. This is obviously the self-understanding in the reality of the ÖVP that it makes policy for the rich, for the billionaires, and not for the millions of hard-working Austrians. We know why the ÖVP is doing this. Chats. It's her own understanding that she says: We as ÖVP are the whores of the rich! Why the greens are in there is a mystery to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12866	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12891	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, one thing we reject, namely the class struggle that you are doing over and over again when it comes to large tax relief measures and also to an ecological system that we are introducing for the first time in Austria. We're talking about relief from people. Especially in times when we are in the upswing, it is about stability, about securing jobs and the location, and not about class struggle, Mr Krainer. You should remember that. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Former Vice-President Josef Riegler set up the eco-social market economy over 30 years ago. In other words, social and environmental responsibility should be brought into line with market efficiency. This is also a basis for the eco-social tax reform that we are deciding on today. On the one hand, it is the largest tax relief in the Second Republic with a total volume of more than 18 billion euros, and on the other hand we introduce a new classification in the field of ecologisation into our tax system. On the one hand, this means a broad discharge for all, on the other hand, one could also say: Climate protection with home mind. We of the ÖVP Club have made a brochure – it is available at www.oevpklub.at – which lists the essential measures of this eco-social tax reform. [[a brochure entitled “Broad discharge for all.”]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Who paid it?]] I would like to mention a few important points: We relieve all working people. We lower the tax rates to 30 and 40 percent. The import tax rate has already been reduced. This means up to EUR 1 230 discharge per year and taxpayers. The labour factor is reduced by 4.3 billion euros, and this is only due to the reduction of tax rates and, in the area of low-earners, in which we add up to 250 euros more, on the social security bonus or also on the increase in the amount of the transport deduction or the retirement pension. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What Mr Krainer once again arbitrarily forgot is the measures we are taking in the family sector. We increase the family bonus, which we introduced together with FPÖ at that time, from EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 000 per year and child, for the over 18-year-olds from EUR 500 to EUR 650, and we raise the surplus amount for those who earn so little that they do not pay a tax, from EUR 250 to EUR 450. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the biggest fiscal measures that have ever existed, and we will continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For the spectators it is important, I believe, that you give examples. Let us take a couple with two children – thank God still in our Republic – who is going to work and who is doing his part for the general public. Take a pair of once 2 167 euros net, once around 2 200 euros net and two children aged five and nine. For example, they live with me at home in my district, in Schärding. There all 30 communities are covered by the climate bonus of 200 euros, because we are rurally structured because we depend on the car and because we do not have any infrastructure like in Vienna, where, when I go in front of the doorstep, I can use all public transport everywhere – very exemplaryly. This family with two children receives a total relief including climate bonus of 2 783 euros per year. If you charge the climate bonus separately – that's 600 euros per year – it's 2 183 euros per year. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already experienced a number of tax reliefs in this House and always decided, but that is clearly the biggest. The money also arrives in people's wallets. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Or do we take, for example, a single mother with a five-year-old child who is going to work – let's assume, as an employee in the hospital, where one is currently very burdened – and earns EUR 1 544 net. There too we relieve with 854 euros. The climate bonus is 300 euros. Or if we take a couple of pensioners – again from the rural area – with two pensions, once EUR 1 220, once EUR 1 044 – there are hundreds of thousands in Austria – then the total relief for this couple of pensioners is EUR 850 per year. This is something we want to implement: a very broad discharge, not only for the working people and the families, but also for the economy, for our location and also for agriculture. We stand by the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the site must also be secured, especially in times when we come out of a serious crisis and it is about supporting it now. Because, Mr Krainer, you spoke of small businesses: Yes, please, for whom is the profit-free amount that we raise from 13 to 15 percent? For whom are the low-valued economic goods that we raise from 800 to 1000 euros? For whom is the reduction of health insurance contributions also in the field of self-employed people and agriculture, for which we provide 60 million euros in addition? – These are the small entrepreneurs and the middle class that we relieve. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, we also stand for a 2% reduction in corporate tax. You know why? – Because it concerns businesses that employ hundreds of thousands of employees, because the management companies in Austria are the ones we are proud of. I just don't understand one thing: They place the works councils there – for example in the Voest – and oppose this measure. [[towards SPÖ]] This means securing jobs, which also means sustainability in the area of site policy for these companies. This is about hundreds of thousands of jobs, but you seem to have already adopted the policy – we do not, ladies and gentlemen, support these measures. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] We have also implemented a number of measures in the field of agriculture and forestry, but of course the farmer needs his tractor. Yes, if the technology continues, the farmers will accept it. At my place at home, it's such that you need diesel to drive the tractor. We also need the food we use to cover our tables daily, so we will compensate for the CO2 price in the field of agriculture. Energy-authentic farms are shown with an additional 25 million euros, and – what we still change today by amendment – for those who have the smallest pensions in the field of agriculture, and that is many, we reduce the fictitious outlay from 10 to 7.5 percent. You once said that was client policy. – This is social policy, ladies and gentlemen, which we are implementing here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, environmental measures are essential. Yes, we have to go one step further, because of course we assume our responsibility in this area. We implement the CO2 award with a regional climate bonus, which is graduated – for example, in my home town of Sigharting 200 Euro and here in Vienna 100 Euro. For children, there are half of them, and between them there are grades of 167 and 133 euros. This is well distributed over the Austrian map, ladies and gentlemen. And it is climate protection with home mind: on the one hand, a surcharge on the tonne of CO2 emissions, on the other, a regional suspension for those people, for Zig thousands of commuters in our Republic, for example, who need the car because they drive to the station or to the workplace. This is a policy that also leads to an ecologicalization with property and house mind. Further measures are the cleaner-heat offensive and the initiative out of oil and gas. We simply have to do this too, so money is taken into account for this: for example, for the thermal renovation of multi-storey residential buildings 60 million euros per year. In order to get out of these oil heaters and gas heaters wherever possible, we will also be providing an additional EUR 40 million per year for the boiler exchange. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: This is a broad relief for all people in Austria, not for a few, but for all people in Austria, when taking into account the climate bonus. We initiate the greening of the tax system and thus secure the upturn. This brings stability and strengthens sustainability in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not agree with this large package of discharges and ecologisties, you do not think it well with the future of the country. Therefore: You agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e12985	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13007	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Estimated Austrians! This tax reform is the largest mogel pack in the Second Republic, it is neither eco nor social. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Double farmer.]] It is an eco-social tax reform financed by the Austrians themselves by the cold progression and by the new CO2 tax, which is nothing but a mineral oil tax increase under the cover of climate protection. In its opinion of 6.12.2021 on tax reform, the Court of Auditors has not in vain recorded the following – I can quote the Court of Auditors –: ‘In summary, the RH notes that the figures and data in the impact-oriented impact assessment do not derive or are not derived from the financial impact. are not comprehensible or partially missing.” – So much so about the numbering of this tax reform. This tax reform also makes tax law not easier and fairer, but – quite the contrary – more complicated and unfair. First example: No reasonable-thinking legist allows income tax reform to enter into force under age, but always only at 1.1. of a year. An underage entry into force is an administrative and bureaucratic super-GAU for wage earners and entrepreneurs, but also, of course, for financial management. This tax reform will not be published until mid-February in the Bundesgesetzblatt. In the calculation of wages, the salaries for January and February still have to be charged with the old income tax rate, with the 35 percent. The legislator then requires that no later than 31. On the other hand, there is a need to correct the months incorrectly charged with the old EST rate. That means that everything has to be rolled up, i.e. that these miscalculated months have to be billed twice, which, of course, leads to higher costs in the calculation of wages. This is how digitalisation and a simplification of wage accounting are under this turquoise-green federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is particularly amusing to read the introduction of the EKO opinion of 2.12.2021; Mr Secretary-General Head is also a member of this House. There it is – I quote –: ‘The draft provides the economy with a discharge in the area of tax bureaucracy’. – The exact opposite is the case, Mr Kopf! Because, in particular, we are on the subject of simplifying wage accounting: In the case of employee profit participation, the “simplification of wage settlement” – under quotation marks – looks so that employee profit participation is tax-free, but is very likely to be subject to additional wage costs and social security, which of course makes wage accounting more complicated. It should also be noted that, due to the social security obligation, the service providers, i.e. those who earn over the SV-highest contribution basis, benefit disproportionately from the new scheme. Third example: The special deduction for the thermal-energy renovation of buildings and for the replacement of a fossil heating system only brings red tape and does nothing at all to those persons who pay little or no taxes. An increase in direct support would have been the better solution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A fourth example is the taxation of the cryptocurrencies. We all agree that the cryptocurrency is a highly speculative form of investment. Therefore, the tax improvement of the cryptocurrencies in the prohibition of deduction and in the case of the additional costs compared to the savings, purchase of federal bonds or purchase of shares is completely incomprehensible. I do not understand at all why cryptocurrency in the tax field is better than simply saving. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fifth example: Let us come to the National Emissions Trading Act and the Climate Bonus Act. For petrol and diesel, the turquoise-green CO2 power tax means an additional load of 7.7 and 8.8 cents per litre in the first year. In 2025, the CO2 power tax will then be 13 cents per litre and 14.8 cents respectively. We must not forget that petrol already has 50 percent tax burden, and with electricity the load is even 55 percent. That's where you could put. We will make an appropriate request to that effect today. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] This turquoise-green carbon tax, which is nothing but a mineral oil tax increase under the cover of climate protection, and the climate bonus are also new bureaucracy samples in the administrative process. It is a tax which the Minister of Finance has complicatedly removed and then, in the form of a regional climate bonus, is even more complicated and unfairly distributed by the Minister for the Environment. Why do you have to deal with two ministries? The Ministry of the Environment has no data at all. Why can't this be done alone by the Ministry of Finance, in which almost all the necessary data is available? The exclusive disbursement of the regional climate bonus by the BMF would be more cost-effective and would also comply with the principles of data saving and data security. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Another aspect of CO2 taxation: It will even create its own authority with up to 65 new planning sites, the so-called Office for National Emissions Trading. This is how the administrative simplification looks under Turquoise-Green. [[Congratulations to members of FPÖ and NEOS.]] In addition, the companies concerned are subject to extensive reporting obligations and review measures. The Court of Auditors also strongly criticised this in its opinion. If one reads through the opinion of the WKO, which should actually represent the entrepreneurs, then it sounds as if all this is not a problem. The creation of a separate authority with up to 65 new planning posts does not interfere at all, quite the contrary, the Economic and Social Committee, in its opinion, even calls for the establishment of an advisory board of the social partners with extensive reporting obligations of the ministries concerned to the Advisory Council. [[Abg. Loacker: With the inflated administration, the Chamber of Commerce knows!]] This refers to the WKO as a discharge in the area of tax bureaucracy. The climate bonus is not only a bureaucracy sample, it is also most unfairly distributed. The CO2 tax is not only about mobility, but also about heating. However, the heating costs and the energy supply remain completely inconceivable with the climate bonus. The example of Ketzergasse, which is often cited, where the house number decides on the height of the climate bonus, is not an individual case. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The discharge steps of this tax reform – from wage or income tax reduction to employee profit participation – correspond more or less to what I negotiated with the then Finance Minister Löger in 2019. We will therefore also give our approval to these parts of the tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13094	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13116	Madam President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Listeners and listeners in front of the screens! Today, we finally and finally decide: The eco-social tax reform that we negotiated last year and presented in autumn. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We Greens have entered this government with the promise that we will take care of the climate and our environment so that our children and our grandchildren have a viable future that they too can live well on this planet and have a life-worthy, good future. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: But there would be the greens...!]] That is why we are now doing what the house mind tells us and making a demand of the Greens that has been in existence for 30 years: We're revolutionizing our tax system. We no longer turn on small screws, but we put a completely new gear in the machine. This is not just a tax reform, as there were many tax reforms, but an eco-social tax reform. It is about ecologizing our tax system, and this tax reform is a turning point in the way we deal with environmental damage and environmental benefits. Climate protection and social responsibility are placed at the centre of our political action and linked. Ecological and social are two very central concepts of green policy, and this is now the subject of this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do this out of responsibility for the climate and our nature, out of responsibility for a good relationship. Climate-damaging behaviour is now receiving a price tag for the first time, and at the same time, low incomes are taxed more heavily, especially with the climate bonus and the increase in the social security bonus. There is an increase in the amount of the child added – which has already been mentioned in detail here – and a reduction in the tariff levels is also taking place. It's a big, big discharge package. We Greens are convinced: Climate protection is also the recipe for social justice. With this tax reform, we are introducing a price for CO2, and at the same time we are distributing the money we are taking through it, back to households and people, depending on how they behave. The climate bonus works in such a way that people who live in an area such as Vienna, where public transport is well developed and you can easily behave climate-friendlyly, get 100 euros back. In areas where you can decide whether to behave climate-friendlyly or not, the contribution is 150 euros. In the end, this means: If you behave climate friendlyly, then you will have a more left over from the climate bonus. Finally, with regard to the areas which are not yet well developed, which are far from good infrastructure and where there is little public transport, we ensure that these people have no disadvantage from this tax reform. – This ecologisation of the tax system is necessary and extremely important in order to achieve our goal of climate neutrality by 2030, and we are now creating a huge milestone on the way there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to refer to the social part, and at this point I must say: Mr Krainer! You very much appreciate the budget service and also the analyses, and I think you are right, because we are all doing this here in Parliament. It is said here again and again that this tax reform is neither ecological nor social. But if you look at the data and the analysis, you can see quite clearly that the opposite is the case: Ecologisation has certainly not been able to be the subject of previous tax reforms, and with regard to the social distribution or distribution balance of this tax reform, it is much better than in previous tax reforms. As far as the distribution between men and women is concerned, we are now much better off. Mr Koza will do this even more in detail. This is the distribution perspective we have. [[keeping a table with a column diagram entitled ‘The distribution of the total volume of eco-social tax reform and tax reform 2015/16’]] Now my question: What about the tax reform under a red chancellor? – There, the two top Quintiles benefited the most. The three lower Quintiles, on the other hand, benefit most from the eco-social tax reform of this government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to refer to this point again: The inflation, inflation, high energy prices are now always the subject, and this is always presented here by the opposition. That is why I would like to point out what is already being done in this tax reform for low incomes and on this issue: There is 150 euros for people who are unemployed and for people with low incomes. That's 100 million we're pouring out, and it's worth a three-quarters million Austrians. We have the climate bonus, which is paid all year round, that's 600 million. We have even preferred the social security bonus, because for the reason that we know or knew that energy prices will rise significantly in the autumn, the CO2 price will only come in the second half of the year so that we do not create any additional burden here. The SV bonus, on the other hand, was preferred throughout the year 2021, which is 700 million. In addition, the green electricity contribution, which is 110 euros per household, accounts for 400 million total. So we have 1.8 billion redundancies for almost four million households. That is an average of 450 euros, and therefore it is absolutely wrong to say that this tax reform only serves the millionaires. This tax reform is really extremely good in terms of distribution policy, I would like to stress at this point again in the direction of social democracy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We work in this government every day to make climate-friendly behaviour cheaper and easier in the future, for example with the climate ticket, the eco-investment premium, the railway expansion package, the offensive out of oil and gas. That's already mentioned. So the good continues to be cheaper, and the harmful gets a fair price. I think that's a good way for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13197	Mrs Karin Doppelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13219	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Finanzminister! There is this beautiful saying that the will stands for the work. – You are now completely new and, so to speak, just started in your function. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] But I can't make it easy for you, because the subject is just too important. It is about socially just ecologizing the tax system. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: This is done!]] There are two things that need to be connected to each other. This is a tax relief for all taxpayers and for entrepreneurs. Secondly, however, we need, above all, an honest takeover of responsibility on climate issues in order to ensure the well-being of the coming generations, and not only a beautiful green marketing policy or a beautiful narrative that is presented here. I come to my criticism: This tax reform does not create either one or the other. The necessary change will not be achieved, especially in the case of Austria's CO2 emissions. That's what all the experts say. Now we can already address the fact that there are individual points that we really like very well, which we also support. We have already said that in the Committee, we will vote this way today – I am just saying: climate-friendly investments or also the reduction of the second and third levels, which we naturally welcome, the first step towards employee participation, although there will certainly be several steps to go to the next level. What I personally like was your announcement that the Kest for securities should be abolished. Maybe you can say something about it afterwards, you also said that a few times medial, that was an announcement. I very much hope she'll come. That would be a very, very important sign. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I come to the other side of the medal. What we lack painfully is the abolition of the cold progression – most of us will already be able to think about it. We have read it again today, there are now new inflation notices or calculations, there are about 4 percent. They also promised to abolish this cold progression before the election, because it leads people to simply finance the tariff cuts themselves. That means, that's just slicing. Countries like Switzerland or Sweden have also managed to abolish this, and that must also be the goal here. You should simply refrain from paying the taxpayer homagely for the money, honestly, in not quite correct way to pull it out of the bag. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] You shouldn't do that so that there's really a fair discharge. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am not going to tire out, ladies and gentlemen, to stress this again and again, even here in the House, and that is why there is again today a motion for a resolution from my group: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'd be glad if you answered that. I come to my second point, which is really about the climate-friendlyness of this package. What we want NEOS – I believe we have discussed this very seriously – is a CO2 price which really creates this steering path to climate neutrality. But we want to do so in return, of course. Taxation on labour and corporate taxes must continue to be reduced, because what we do not want is an increase in the tax rate. So what would you do here? – One really needed a reasonable price to achieve this steering as well. All experts have said: The package presented here can be called a first step, but it will definitely not be enough to achieve the goals that have been signed out. We will hear more about the failed climate bonus today, and my colleague, Loacker, will also address it. Perhaps one last point is about subsidies: In Austria, there are 4 billion euros of environmentally harmful subsidies paid each year. It's about the service car privilege, it's about the diesel privilege and it's also about the shuttle fee. These are all the issues you have not even attacked in this reform, so you simply cannot talk about a successful reform that will really achieve its objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not only a topic for the climate, it is above all also a topic for taxpayers, because by 2030 we will be looking at 9 billion euros of costs in the year if we do not reach the climate targets. Let me summarize it: This tax reform will not succeed, so we would have expected much more of a green government participation in this direction. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[11:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13383	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13407	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! So I'm usually not a friend of superlatives, but that's huge what you decide today: an incredible package, an incredible tax reform, actually a milestone and one of the central projects of this federal government that is being brought to the ground today. I would like to thank you for this already because it is really an inconceivable step. – Mrs Doppelbauer, I would very much like to address these individual points. So I'm really glad, I'm very happy that this tax reform is being decided today. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the beginning, however, I would like to thank myself very much, on the one hand, for the staff members of the department who have done incredible things with their expertise. The experts have worked intensively on this mega-project over the past few months – including those of the coalition partner who have been intensively involved, many thanks for that too – and of course also a very special thanks to my predecessor, Gernot Blümel, who, together with Mr. Vice Chancellor, led the negotiations and brought this mega-project to the ground. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As I said before: In politics, of course, one always likes to talk about superlatives, when it comes to very central political projects, and that is one of these central projects. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we can just let the facts speak, which is, I believe, not that bad access in politics. The fact is that, together with the ecological incentives we set, we will relieve the Austrians and the local economy by EUR 18 billion by 2025. That is fact, that is because not only we say it, but also all the economic researchers in this Republic confirm it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The international comparison also makes us relatively safe. I have just returned from Brussels and, of course, I have also discussed the content of this tax reform with the Swedish colleague you have referred to. This international comparison makes us sure, because in other countries taxes are currently being increased, because they are more discussed about increases – we are reducing taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] I mean, this is a completely different access that we have there. Other countries, such as the new Federal Government in the Federal Republic of Germany, are based on our tax reform. You say a discharge of 30 billion euros is thought of. If I take the factor ten, we have a six times higher discharge than they are planning the Germans. That's just huge what's being brought to the ground. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] However, we would like to stick to the facts, and the fact is that Austria simply came through the crisis better than other countries as a whole. That's fact. Now we want to make sustainable use of this upturn. [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] We also want to give companies the opportunity to create jobs and, of course, to maintain prosperity in our country. Now I come back to the economic researchers: The renowned economic researchers in Austria, but also internationally – OECD, Monetary Fund, with us Wifo and IHS, interestingly also Eco Austria – expect us to see this eco-social tax reform further increase the economy by 1 percent. The tax reform that we decide here alone brings 1 per cent of additional growth. I have to say that again, it's just a mega-history that's being implemented there. This tax reform alone increases the number of employees by 30 000. This year's growth rates are forecast to be 5.2 per cent, even where we are far-reaching in the European average, and 1 per cent of them through the tax reform. So you just have to respect that as a fact, I think. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So while other countries are more burdened, as I said, we relieve them. Others are also discussing the abolition of the cold progression, which is already interesting, Mr Fuchs has mentioned it, but of course you too, Mrs Doppelbauer. The abolition of the cold progression, I think, is also the case with all the experts, it is more useful for the minister, that is clear, that is fact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] We're going another way, we're also trying to relieve the low-earners. This is also a central point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] An additional point is also the focus – we have already discussed this in the Committee – the focus is very central. To abolish the cold progression: Once again, this is the government programme, and I am also in favour of this objective, but in this situation where we are now, we must focus on it. [[New call for tender Double builder]] We have set these priorities with the eco-social tax reform by easing people, strengthening their location and setting the right ecological measures to achieve this transformation process. For the CO2 price: The tax reform is not the universal remedy for ecologisation and transformation, but of course it makes an important contribution. By awarding CO2, we are already changing the tax system from scratch to reward environmentally friendly behaviour and also investments in the field of ecology. One can, of course, discuss the level of the CO2 price. That's what we did: When does the steering effect start, from when not? There are experts for whom the price is too low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] – Well, that has a steering effect, of course, because each price has a steering effect. Every price has a steering effect if you put in place the right accompanying measures – I am not tired of saying that – namely investment in the expansion of infrastructure in the rail sector, changeover opportunities, attractive offers when it comes to switching to public transport. These are accompanying measures that we have already put in place, which are likely to have a corresponding steering effect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We must, of course, take into account the reality of life of people in this debate on the level of the price. That is also crucial. As I said, there will always be experts who are too low in the price, but we do not create the green transformation against the citizens and against the companies, but only together. Only when we join forces, with the people and with the companies, do we have a chance to bring this green transformation to the ground accordingly. People in the country now rely more heavily on the car, and from my point of view, it is only fair that they will receive a higher regional climate bonus as compensation for the higher costs they bear. This is also one of the key issues in CO2 pricing, which must always be taken into account, because eco-social means environmental, but also social, and this social compensation is also achieved through this tax reform. To the Entrepreneur: A CO2 price, an entry into the CO2 price, is, as it were, the bridge between ecology and the economy, because there is also a concrete path that we are taking in order to ensure that companies have a safe way of how the price will develop in the next few years before we will hopefully enter a European emission trading market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, apart from CO2 pricing, there are of course other investments that we support especially in the field of ecologisation: for example increased allowances, further incentives for thermal-energy rehabilitation measures, installation of climate-friendly heating systems and more. So there is a lot of climate-friendly investment opportunities inside this package, and that is why this tax reform will help us to achieve the ecological turnaround. Of course, we also place a further, very important focus on the relief of families on the one hand and the factor work on the other. As part of the economic strengthening package, we already reduced the first stage of wage and income tax from 25 to 20 percent in 2020, and this also has a lasting effect on people with lower incomes. With this eco-social tax reform, we are now going to the second and third levels of income tax. We take this down and lower the second stage from 35 to 30 percent and next step next year the third step from 42 to 40 percent. The reduction in wage and income tax – Mr Krainer mentioned it – would originally have been planned for the middle of the year. Yes, Mr Krainer, we listen, we always learn, and therefore we implement this retroactively with 1.1.2022, so that the discharge for citizens is already on 1st. It is also important to note that there is a need for greater transparency between the Member States and the Community. It's challenging times we're going through right now. In order that in these times the discharge can be felt so that the discharge can be felt immediately and that the people also arrive immediately, we will also implement these mixed tax rates. Even smaller incomes benefit from this eco-social tax reform, and even smaller pensions benefit greatly. We raise the surcharge for employees to 650 euros, for pensioners and pensioners, to 825 euros. Also these increased deposits become immediately noticeable, we implement them retroactively with 1.1.2022. There are also very important steps in this direction for smaller incomes. Another very important point about the families: We increase the tax rate for children, the so-called family bonus plus, to 2 000 euros per child, and for parents who pay little or no income tax, we increase the child's surplus to 450 euros. For the first time – once the amount of the child was only possible for single parents – we extend this to all parents, so that all can benefit from this additional amount. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is also the reason why this is very likely to be an eco-social tax reform, because all these measures also compensate for it. I am going to be brief on the discharge measures in the economic field, on businesses. I am convinced that Parliament's head will continue to respond. In order to reduce corporate tax to 23 percent, Deputy Krainer has mentioned: The company tax rate currently in force dates back to 2005, and the world has changed somewhat over the last 15, 16, 17 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In the meantime, almost all neighbouring countries have lowered their tax rates. The average Köst rate in the EU is 21.5 percent – only so that we also know what we are talking about – and this is, of course, a significant factor for foreign investors to choose their location. Especially our German neighbours now look, from their point of view, at Austria with concern, that we are going to look at it and become more attractive in the European comparison, because it is already a problem for them if we become more attractive as an economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Many German companies are already considering moving their locations to Austria. This is a very important factor in competition in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Summary: I think the facts speak for themselves: 18 billion euros of discharge in the coming years, by far the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. We relieve massively in all areas – families, working people, companies – with this tax reform, we make an important contribution to ecological change, to ecological transformation, and we strengthen the location with certain measures sustainable. I thank you now for your support – I hope I can convince you – and I am really pleased about this decision, which is historic and brings to the ground a megaproject of the last months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13562	As already announced by the Minister, the next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13586	Madam President, be careful that the Federal Minister does not assume your role in calling up the speakers! – No, thank you, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Brunner: Excuse me, I didn't want you - -!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Who knows what is in 20 years!]] Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all: We have all been in a very serious situation for almost two years now, caused by a virus that imposes restrictions on us in the personal, private sector, which unfortunately also brings us great limitations and major problems in our economic activities. But there is also absolute reason for hope and confidence in these hours. Science has been able to provide a vaccination against this virus in record time, which, as we now see, offers us enormous protection from serious disease events. Of course, the vaccination obligation that we decide today is not undisputed and, of course, also means an intervention – a strong intervention – in the personal sphere, but is necessary. With her we get a view, I'd even say: Claim, to some kind of normality: without lockdown and even without 2G rule. It's related to me. There is also reason for hope and confidence in the economy. She has been recovering strongly since the last year, she is growing heavily. Of course, we had a significant collapse in 2020, as did the entire euro area. With about 6.6 percent, we have experienced the same level of burglary. At the end of this year, however, we are expected to be back at pre-crisis level. This gives confidence, and you can look forward to it – it may be the wrong word; but that gives confidence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The employment dimension – which is probably a crucial factor for the people of Austria – is now again at pre-crisis level. In other words, we have experienced a real growth shift since the last year following the fall of 2020, at least last year 4.1 percent – remembering: The forecast before the crisis was 1.5 percent for 2021. Today we are forecast by all experts a growth of 5.2 percent – once again to remember: The 2022 forecast was 1.6 percent. Now you have to say, of course, that due to the collapse of 2020, there are some catch-up effects inside, quite clearly; but if you see at the same time – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – that Germany was only 2.7 percent last year – we were 4.1 – Switzerland last year at 3.6 – as we said at 4.1 – Germany will be one percentage point among us this year, Switzerland even at 3.3, that is, 2 percentage points below our growth, then I can only tell you: This tax reform comes at the right time with the right measures. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The reduction in income tax, the family bonus, the climate bonus, all these relief measures strengthen the purchasing power of the people in Austria; the reduction of corporate tax, the release of investment as a follow-up to the highly successful investment premium, including the profit-free amount for the taxable companies – all of which are measures to strengthen companies in a difficult time. For this purpose, some EUR 1.5 billion per year is available, both for employment and for the security of some of the companies in Austria that are seriously affected. That is to say, I mentioned it earlier, and the experts confirm this to us – this growth increased by 1 to 1.5 percent compared to Switzerland and Germany, which we already had in Austria last year and again this year, is a causal effect of this tax reform. You can't stress that often enough. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A few more comments on myths and misinformation that are spread over and over again: The corporate tax benefits about 150 000 companies, i.e. capital companies, and no, Mr. Krainer, of course, they benefit in relation to their tax performance. The fact that a large company gets more than a smaller one now is not serious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] In relation to their tax performance, they all benefit equally, because we are reducing the tax rate, which should probably be informative. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Minister for Finance has already pointed out: In the meantime, we have fallen behind the EU-27 in the tax burden on capital companies, and we are also only once we have taken the two stages, about where the OECD cut will be. So we are already in a political position to avoid falling behind when it comes to the relocation of companies in Austria, calling for these two reductions in corporate tax. In addition, it is said: At the end of the day, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who are individual entrepreneurs or have personal companies and are therefore not subject to corporate taxation but to income tax. That's what you've almost kept silent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] From bottom to top! – I can only quote the budget service of the house again, which really provides us with very, very well-founded and serious analyses: The study of the budget service shows that it is particularly beneficial for the medium-sized group. No, the average 40 percent pay about 60 percent of the wage tax. The lower 50 percent pay just 2 percent. In order to be able to relieve these people, we are taking other measures, up to a negative tax, but they can no longer be taxed because they almost no longer pay. In addition: 4 per cent of the wage and income taxpayers pay 40 per cent of the wage and income tax, this burden is to be said once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This tax reform will in particular benefit medium incomes but will not forget the smaller ones. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Much has already been said about the cold progression. Mr Krainer, it is a slight understatement to say that the cold progression is something more than compensated for by this tax reform. You should also check the budget service again: It is clearly superior in its effect to automatic reduction or consideration of cold progression. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Doppelbauer]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Inflation!]] [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] I would like to say something else about the issue of capital income tax recently attracted by the Federal Minister. Not for nothing in general terms means the retention period of speculation. We urgently need private capital to finance companies as a complement to bank financing and we need more people who are willing to invest their savings in companies as well. Those who do it speculatively by hopping from one investment to another: no, capital income tax. But those who are willing to invest in these companies over a longer period of time, so that they can also be at risk of these companies, which should be given this sugar of the capital income tax exemption, because they make a significant contribution to the capitalisation of our companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, This tax reform gives hope. It gives hope, confidence and also sets out very concrete measures to strengthen the purchasing power of people, to take measures to increase the economic growth of individual enterprises and to strengthen employment in that country to a very high degree. So I can only invite you to agree to this proposal today, which will make a valuable positive contribution to the further development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13738	Mr Matznetter spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13762	Madam President. We want to have an objective discussion. Mr Kopf has said here that the budget service would have said that this tax reform is more than balanced the cold progression. I'm actually correcting: This calculation only applies if you calculate a non-taxable family bonus plus. Otherwise, the cold progression is not balanced.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13803	Mrs Julia Herr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e13824	Madam President. Appreciate government representatives! Today, when I got there in the newspaper, I read about a single mother who, after being separated from her partner and after the birth of her child, had no longer managed to pay for the rent, and was in the cold with her child for several months. That's a story in today's paper, but there's a lot of people like that. By the way, Mr Finanzminister, this single mother with little salary will not exploit the full family bonus, like others here, for example, as well-deserving, no, he does not apply to this single mother. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the story: I think under this picture we must assess a tax reform. Who brings them the most? To whom does this volume bring something? Those who already have a hard time getting over the rounds, or those who already have too much? – In my tone you may recognize it: Unfortunately, the second thing happened again. I'm also taking a measure out of that. I do not understand why at this time, in spite of or even because of the crisis, a lot of enrichment has taken place because of the pandemic, so that the number of millionaires in this country continues to increase, you think: There's more going on. I do not understand why the profit tax for corporations and large companies in this country is now being reduced! Member's head! Two thirds of this tax reduction goes to 1 percent of companies in this country, to top companies. That's just fact, that's just the way it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why this is necessary now, instead of using the money differently, for those who really need it, is not clear to me. It's going on like that. The new Minister of Finance has already announced that he wants to continue with the tax reduction for the asset; even if it concerns taxes on securities, we have been announced, we have read. Profits with shares are also to be favoured taxly. I wonder – or I don't wonder, because I don't need to ask who will bring it. Half of the population in this country has no securities. It's quite clear to whom this will bring something again, and that's just wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You almost miss the words, but you don't have to look for them for long, because the former ÖVP Secretary-General in the Ministry of Finance actually has it very much, Very well put to the point. In fact, he wrote to his employee, quote: “Don’t forget – you hack in the ÖVP Cabinet!- Oh, my God! You are the whore for the rich!" – This is not to remain unmentioned here, I want to make it work. – So many times to the point socially. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's continue with the point eco: How much CO2 will we save through this reform? How much will we save at the end of the day? A few percent we can count on in one hand. If the Voest in Linz needs to shut off a blast furnace because you have to clean it from time to time, we will save more CO2 than by this tax reform. This is also a fact, even if you are talking about historically here and revolution – we have heard that before from the Greens. The Court of Auditors also criticises or questions the steering effect of all these measures: How much will really happen to steering effect? How many will really change because of this CO2 tax? In order to achieve an improvement, I would like to make two key points: First of all, the CO2 price should be made visible at all – the population will not see it on the bill for refuelling or heating; that is not the case – in order to have a steering effect to make it visible; for any energy price variation is more than that CO2 price. That's the first step. Secondly, we want not the wrong ones to be asked to cash. For example, if you ask the tenants to check out and say, maybe they're going to change the heating, then you have to say: No, they won't. It's not in her hand, they can't choose the heating system. That means they're just being asked to check out, the steering effect is zero, and that's neither eco nor social! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Smoking.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then the tenants can also recover this money from the landlord. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14014	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14038	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Even though Corona is still on the agenda today and we are breaking records as to the number of infections, I think the day is definitely a cause for joy because of the templates we are discussing. The fact that this eco-social tax reform is actually successful today is a success, I believe, for us Greens, for the government as a whole, but especially for the people of this country, especially for the youngest among them, because at last climate-damaging emissions get a price and the climate becomes part of the bill. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are, of course, dozens of reasons why I believe that this tax reform is a success. I would particularly like to address three issues and perhaps a little more on the issues that have been raised in this way. First of all, I think it is a success that this will be decided at all. I would remind you that not quite a year ago, when there was a discussion, voices had become loud: What's this task force doing? Is there any of these? It's never going to last until 2022! Mrs. Double Bauer! I also remember your statements in committee: It is never likely that we will get this tax reform in 2022. And now there are about 20 speakers between my speech and the decision of this tax reform, and it is not even February 2022. That is, I think, a great success – at the beginning. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now you don't want to hang it on to such formalities, but of course it makes a difference whether a CO2 price comes 2022 or 2023. That would be a CO2 price of zero if he did not come now. Then NEOS would probably not be particularly pleased either. However, much more important than this question is from my point of view the social question. This has always been very central in all the negotiations and discussions on CO2 pricing. Again and again there were voices that said – Mr Krainer has also Today, we are trying to present it in such a way that, when Turquoise and Green make a tax reform together, they may become a bit eco-friendly, but in no case social. In fact, you have to be careful. A CO2 price is a tax that can work this way. In particular, if you do as NEOS suggest, if you only reduce the income tax in return, then you must be careful not to get into a situation where the low-earners pay the taxes. That might have been a situation you could have come to. For me, therefore, the standard has always been whether a climate bonus can be implemented as a return to CO2 prices or not, because the climate bonus or ecobonus, this lump sum, is almost the miracle weapon that ensures that such a CO2 price will then not only become an ecological, but also a social measure. And that was successful. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is also the statement made by the colleague. This mother you just described in your speech benefits from this climate bonus as well as from the social security bonus. We have targeted precisely those people, because they pay in part the price of CO2. That's why it's important that they get something back. But now you're getting back disproportionately. This part of this tax reform, which did not exist in previous tax reforms, including those of SPÖ, ensures that the low earners get back more than those who deserve much. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haubner.]] You can calculate this on the back of a beer lid or on the front of a beer lid. However, this has now been confirmed by the budget service and the Fiscal Council and, I believe, it is also very clear in principle. A third aspect that I would like to highlight – and I am contradicting Mr Fuchs, who believes that this is just an increase in mineral oil tax anyway – is: This is not the case for various reasons, for example, because we rely on the CO2 content and not on the litres, but precisely because this CO2 price first acts as a tax and then as a trading system. This ensures two things: first planning from the beginning – fixed prices, all know what is going on, businesses and households can rely on it – and secondly, the trading system – in contrast to the CO2 price proposed by NEOS – ensures that we also achieve climate targets. Both are, of course, covered by this tax reform. At the end of the day, maybe very briefly: There are various criticisms from all sides, I think that is also legitimate. One can focus on one detail or another, but I think that in total there are a lot of measures for both NEOS and SPÖ and even FPÖ in this tax reform, which can be widely supported. I would like to promote this broad support, and I hope that it will end until the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14136	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14161	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Federal Minister! – Stay there, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it pays off! [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: I just had another suspicion!]] High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the so-called eco-social tax reform, perhaps a few words to Parliament and today's sitting. If you enter Parliament today, and Parliament is the political people's representative, you think you're in another country: Around Parliament is a ban mile built, police stand around Parliament, shield Parliament, the people are locked out. People's representatives don't need it, it only needs it from people's traitors! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have never experienced anything like this, and all this because you are afraid of your own people, because today you want to decide on a vaccination force, which many in this country reject and which is not proportionate, in no way proportionate.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14207	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that in the course of the debate there is no need for a request to be moderate in terms of expression. However, I would like to point out that, with regard to the following items on the agenda, it may be important to point out that there is a Rules of Procedure, according to which the dignity of the House should not be violated. You can continue in your speech now.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14237	Thank you, Madam President, I can now proceed with my remarks. I hope you have stopped speaking, because today it will be a little short, because there is much to say. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Wouldn't you have said such a stupid thing before!]] Now on eco-social tax reform: Mr Finanzminister, you said today that there were no tax increases, and that is not a correct statement or a false statement. They only call it different, there is a so-called CO2 price, but this is very probably a tax burden on Austrian citizens. You have also presented today a so-called community reward package [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] So what's that?- Oh, my God! I have to say, I'm not sure what you have ideas. I have been in favour of the communities, because they do not receive any extra tax revenue because it is not a Community federal tax – and now there is this municipal reward package, for which the rate of vaccination of a municipality is used. Mr Nehammer explained this in an example: A municipality with 3 000 inhabitants receives 30 000 euros at a vaccination rate of 80 percent, 85 percent 60 000 euros and 90 percent 120 000 euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I am already pleased when the social democratic mayor of Stall im Mölltal – the municipality is now 42 percent vaccination rate – walks through the place with a syringe in his hand and immunizes his citizens so that he gets 30 000 or 60 000 euros. As I know the stalks, this will make little impression, but you will have to be more careful that this does not go backwards. What comes to your mind is only more embarrassing that you make it dependent on such a thing, whether a church gets support or not. [[Abg. Hörl: Stay honest!]] Let us now come to the so-called eco-social tax reform: This is not an eco-social one, it is an eco-economic model, which is implemented by this tax reform, and this brings inflation and price increases that we all already feel. All in this country, from entrepreneurs to every private household, feel that, all are massively burdened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: They don't even exist yet!]] Mr Kopf has mentioned so beautifully today that entrepreneurs would have been helped: Many entrepreneurs have not yet received support or little support and are now struggling with the extreme energy prices, they are no longer getting the raw materials, the raw materials prices have exploded. This is the result of your policy, your corona measures and your corona policy and this eco-wahn that you are now running with the greens. [[Call the ÖVP:If not produced in China!]] The braves are rewarded by Mrs Maurer and the evils, which are certainly also Mrs Maurer, are being punished. This is Mrs Maurer, who showed you all, dear Austrians, the middle finger! They will decide in the future who is good and who is evil, and they will then receive a reward and the others will be punished. This is the system that is now being decided by EDP politicians and Green politicians. Our access is: We need to protect people in this country, so it also needs protection against these price increases, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and for particularly low-income households. Such a similar thing has already occurred from the 1950s to the 1990s, a wage and price commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Such a similar thing we ask now: A prize commission that regulates the prices of certain essentials, i.e. the cost of living, through the Consumer Protection Committee. I put to that a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Protecting people and not punishing people would be our access – thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14510	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14537	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Estimated members of the government! Mr Angerer! The Corona crisis has called for all of us, including entrepreneurs in this country, and we have done everything we can to support entrepreneurs with aid packages. It is certainly possible that one or the other a small problem has appeared in the settlement, but we are committed to each entrepreneur and to each entrepreneur and see that they get the corona support in good time. I'd like to assure you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] We want stability and growth in our country, and it is very important that we support a flourishing economy and provide incentives for the working people. That is exactly what we are doing with this eco-social tax reform, because a healthy business economy creates and secures jobs. One thing I would like to say quite clearly in the direction of SPÖ: The measures we are implementing here for entrepreneurs with this package are mainly for the safety of the site and for the creation and protection of jobs, because this is indivisiblely linked, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] If I look closely at this eco-social tax reform, I have to say that there is exactly this support and these incentives. We create the necessary stability, and above all, the reform also has the content of sustainability. We are making a very clear statement in the direction of discharge and also in order to ensure that performance is worth it. Relieving instead of burdening is our foreign exchange, ladies and gentlemen, and in these difficult corona times – I have already mentioned it – it is necessary that we also set impulses, and we have integrated these impulses here. The forecasts – Mr Head and the Minister of Finance have already carried it out – are on the rise: 5.2 percent growth in this year and 2.5 percent in next year. That's what the economic researchers are predicting us, and these are good signals. This means that we can also afford this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The economic effects and, above all, the discharges show a good picture. This tax reform brings us an additional GDP growth of up to 1 percent. Up to 30 000 new jobs will be created, and we will relieve the labour factor – which is also very important – of 4.3 billion euros by 2025. So we create three priorities: We want to relieve the working people, we set incentives for environmentally friendly behaviour, and we are sustaining the location and thus our companies. As an economic speaker of my party, it is very important for me to mention here that, in the process of collective reform, individuals benefit from the reduction of the tax rates from 35 to 30 and from 42 to 40 percent and that the increase in the profit-free amount from 13 to 15 percent is also a clear signal. The increase in the short-term threshold from 800 to 1 000 euros is an important boost for small businesses in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, we also offer the employee participation in which entrepreneurs make a contribution to their employees if they are successful when the employees have contributed to the success – an important measure and an important impetus for a good cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to say something about corporate tax reduction. We know that our entrepreneurs are in an international competition. The location of Austria is not isolated, it is located in the middle of Europe, and around it the countries have lower corporate tax rates than with us. It is easy for an entrepreneur to move his location abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] This is exactly what we want to build on, so that we can keep companies in Austria and also ensure jobs in Austria. It is precisely this that social democracy, which has always been a protectionist of jobs here, should not run class struggle, but support this measure. [[New call for tender Lord]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Rising, stability and sustainability are sure when we approach each other and not each other. That's why: Let's see that we're successful together! Please vote You want this tax reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14640	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14662	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Of course, you have to relativize this own praise of the ÖVP and, in particular, the ÖVP economy wing. This is best done on the basis of the own figures of the ÖVP economy wing. If you look at the forecast of the Chamber of Commerce for the tax rate in Austria, you can see: This is still going up, from 42.6% in the previous year to 42.7 percent this year and 43.0 percent next year. – The discharge cannot be that great if the tax rate continues to rise. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In these days, the Federal Minister has been given the notice that the capital income tax on price gains will not be paid. In fact, this reintroduction of the retention period has already been promised to stakeholders for this tax reform and has not come. It's about – Karlheinz has done it by heart – not only about people who take care of old age and keep securities for a long time, but also about participation in companies. If there are problems in this country for start-ups to capitalise, it is also about making it more attractive to invest in a start-up and, if it has grown, perhaps to reject the participation again and then not to face a major tax burden. It has also been shown that countries with such retention periods have more innovation and a higher patent rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Now to the climate bonus: Mrs Sonnenscheinklimaminister is not there – Mr Hanger, I cannot understand you because of the acoustics – but with her climate bonus she celebrates: Climate and bonus – that must be great. After a rather arbitrary classification, the citizens of some communities now receive 100 euros of climate bonus, some 133 euros and a few 200 euros, with the totally logical result: It becomes more expensive, and the Wiener, who commuts to Tulln, gets 100 euros of climate bonus, and the Tullner, who commuts to Vienna, gets 133 euros of climate bonus. They have the same cost and the same way, but a different climate bonus. In order for the woman minister to distribute her Hunder-Hunderter, she must build a new bureaucracy in the ministry. It needs data from the Financial Office, it needs data on disabled persons from the Social Ministry Service, it needs data from pension insurance, it also needs family allowance data from the Financial Office, and to manage all of this, it needs its own bureaucracy. She cannot say how many employees she needs and what it will cost. That's meaty, because it's for the climate and it's a bonus, then it's great, then the federal administration still makes an extra metastasis in the climate ministry. No matter how many data are brought together, however safe the data are: Whenever there are different data sources, errors occur anyway. Then there must be a conciliation centre, including in the ministry, to clarify the problems if people have not received the climate hundreds or the 133 euros they imagine – the entire bureaucracy for 100 euros. Then introduce classified health insurance rates for industry and farmers. – Well, it is clear that graded health insurance rates are unconstitutional within a contribution group. They have also announced this for the workers and employees, they have rightly taken it out there because it is not constitutionally possible. For the givers and for farmers' insurance, you leave the unconstitutional provision inside. Seeing Eye's unconstitutional decisions is wrong and irresponsible. It will fall on your head that you will distribute gifts that are not legally covered.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14725	Next speaker: Mr Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e14746	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Today we are discussing the eco-social tax reform. In this context, we set discharge steps to make life and economy easier in Austria and to remain at the forefront in terms of quality of life and economic performance. We take ecologisation steps, so we do for our children. This will ensure a good future. We also put in place measures for social compensation. It is nice to see that we can afford the social state in Austria. It is particularly important for me that we can also take action in the lower income areas. Why can we afford that? – Because we are in total a diligent and innovative people. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and all those involved in this project. Austria's agriculture is experiencing severe times – rising energy prices, rising fertiliser costs, rising feed costs – and therefore it is a need to compensate for CO2 pricing and refund that we are setting up a project in the field of energy-increasing farms, which increases efficiency in the farms, but also improves the climate balance in Austria, and that we reduce health insurance contributions and also as thanks to the older generation, which has built up a lot in our country, the accounting percentage for fictitious exoding after the reduction last year again from 10 to 7.5 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Solidarity and cohesion are a major issue in these days. This is addressed by a wide variety of groups of people. One of the lessons from the crisis is undoubtedly that in the social context, we need to think more about what is meant by solidarity and cohesion for us in Austria. However, I would also like to talk about solidarity in relation to food. We simply need more solidarity along the value chain. That is, I demand fewer extreme actions in the supermarkets because these extreme actions actually devalue the food economically and emotionally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I also call for further price adjustments because the cost pressure is becoming unbearable, and it is necessary to better distribute costs along the value chain so that we can secure the future of Austrian farmers so that we can secure the future of Austrian food so that we can continue to be proud of what Austrian agriculture is doing and what good food we can find in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the end of my remarks, I have two requests to make, on the one hand, the amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Vogler, Mr Strasser, Mr Stammler, Mr Cot, on the Government template of the Eco-Social Tax Reform Act 2022 Part III, on the Federal Act amending the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act.’ I can briefly explain the request in the key points. Yes, we have had to adapt the government template. We have formed income classes there, and the persons concerned in the corresponding income classes are transferred flat-rate amounts once a year. And: We have expanded the government template by reducing the accounting percentage in the fictitious issue, from 10 to 7.5 percent. We thus improve the living situation of the rural pensioners with the smallest pensions by a total of 8 million euros. I should also like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for support and thank you for your attention. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:13]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15291	The amendment was properly tabled and is under negotiation. The total amendment was made to the Basic guidelines have also been distributed to all Members and are therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Selma Yildirim has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15320	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! When I recall the thanks of my previous speakers, especially from the ÖVP series – above all from your speech, Mr. Federal Minister, in which you thank Mr. Blümel – I am not surprised at all, because my overall impression of this tax reform is that the whole package is inspired and inspired by a Thomas Schmid and by a Gernot Blümel. [[towards Federal Minister Brunner]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have had to ask several times to understand that we are indeed deciding on a tax reform – a very large tax reform – without counter-financing. Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been in the history of the Republic that you decide an 18-billion package and don't show who pays the costs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who pays that? – Now I come on it pretty slowly: Whenever the EIA speaks of solidarity and together, it takes the little ones with it. Simpling You're a class fighter, I feel it's a compliment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am more and more aware that you are talking about commonness and solidarity when the little ones, when the workers, when the low-earners pay the costs of this tax reform, then you are thinking of commonness and solidarity. I'm really mad when I look at that. – You, the Green Clubwoman, said that this is an extremely good distribution policy in this law. Yes, what do you mean by extremely good distribution policy? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Have you read through the analysis of this package – that really is distributed from bottom to top, that disproportionately more men than women benefit from this tax reform? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] Do you know how this hurts in the soul when you are outside the districts when you see children of tourism workers who are more affected by unemployment? Especially in federal states that hit the hardest crisis, the child of the hotelier sits and can get 1,500 euros, about the family bonus Plus now 2 000 euros, and the child of the maid has to say: You are worth exactly 400 euros in this republic, at least 450 euros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where's justice? What is the point of this being extremely fair is that I ask you Greens – because I do not expect any social aspect at all, no sense of justice at all at all at the time of the ÖVP. It's annoyed me very much. You know, you stay true to your line. You too, Minister, don't be disappointed, you have to say: [[towards Federal Minister Brunner]] They remain true to the ÖVP line, namely to serve the large donors. Why can we still not see as representatives of this Republic where the billions from this Cofag society are being paid? Who gets these billions? Perhaps even a revolution would break out, Mrs Maurer, if you could notice that a unemployed person with 150 euros of expensive bonus will be fed down a year, and then we will see that billions are going out. Who gets her? Does the money stay in the country? Which companies do they get, which corporations? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why don't you open it? [[Abg. Ottenschlager: It's revealed!]] – Because You would immediately be selected, and that is right, because you use the tax money, using these reforms to serve your clients, without regard................................................................................................. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It doesn't really matter if you're quiet there, as the pulpit is talking about, so really in soft words, saying: Well, percentages have benefited the low-earners more. – If you were to express this in absolute numbers, it would be embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I say that one could really help many families with structural investments such as a kindergarten billion. [[keeping a table with the title “Her with 1.2 billion for childcare!”]] Then every child in this country would be worth a lot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is important, for that we stand, and I ask all of you to do so – of you Greens, Mr Vice-Chancellors, as well as of you ÖVPlers.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15434	Mr Werner Kogler has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15455	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we, or rather you, decide here with this ecological-social tax reform at least a milestone. Some milestones are signposted here – I am about to go into it – but let me begin by saying that I am grateful to be here in the House on a day like this, because several important laws are passed: this reform, which is now the subject, then in the next blocks, but also a framework law on the introduction of a vaccination obligation. I am therefore saying this because, from my point of view, a Member of the Liberal Party – there is Mr Angerer – has expressed himself not only very strangely but also in an unacceptable way. I trust I will also comment on this from the government bank because he has implicitly referred to a 2019 election process. That's where we all candidate, otherwise you wouldn't sit here – me, even as a top candidate. What is unacceptable, I think, is because a banana mile has been drawn around Parliament – necessarily, because we know who is still marching about in the meantime, not only but also – to find out from this circumstance the formulation, it is with you all, ladies and gentlemen, to be “people traitors” and not “people’s representatives”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] – That has been said here! I think that this is unacceptable, and this is still a fine diplomatic formulation, from the government bank. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hauser.]] Do you know how 2019 was? That was a general, free, secret choice, as well as we can, and it wasn't so bad. I would not call it undemocratic in the form that you come to the conclusion that there would be “people traitors” sitting here. That's not going to work out. I would also like to know this from the Government Bank, not only from the President, but also from the President. Do you know what was the principle betrayal of this year in 2019, where real betrayal has happened? – These have been those who have temporarily moved out of your ranks to Ibiza and have been caught in flagranti when they have betrayed all the democratic principles of this republic that you have ledly worshiped until that day. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Hauser.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Which one? Which one?]] That's the truth! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stefan.]] Now to this milestone. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank all those who have contributed. That was a big work. Not only because I've been negotiating, I know that, but it was really not a small thing in many situations, and that actually concerns several ministries. I think that is therefore a milestone, because certain mechanisms that are being built here are irreversibly built, cleaned up with certain old patterns of thought and implemented new thinking, also in the tax system with new principles. In this way – it was suggested – a control machine will be built where wheels are fitted, which has not yet been available, which one can turn in the future due to the political-democratic will to design. I say that the installation of these mechanisms is much, much more difficult than turning it around. Whether this – to which I come then, at the level of the CO2 price – goes from zero to ten or from ten to 100 – many, many economists say, the first step to take at all is the much, much more difficult one than to turn on these screws or wheels. At least you shouldn't let that be unmentioned. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Yes, we can then discuss the amount of the price, and above all we would like to discuss the contradictions you make here. That's what I think is generated here with this entire construction. It has already been suggested, but be only said: Many countries in Europe are now looking at Austria as we have designed it here. I have also been criticized for this: because I have said that this construction is unique throughout Europe. – Yes, but it is true when you count all the elements together. Some CO2 price for something, there's a little bit of mineral oil tax, because or there, there's actually already been in many countries in Europe, that's right, in many countries even for a long time with quite higher values, known as Sweden or something else. But the construction here has many elements, I can identify at least four that work in the combination once. Firstly, the introduction of the price, which can automatically be transferred into a trading system if we want it – the democratic majority here. We find that almost more in the Federal Republic of Germany. What you do not find there, however, is a redistribution of revenue from this CO2 prize to the population, to the households, to the individual citizens, even to the children. This is unique and also leads to the distribution effects from the CO2 price – this must be imagined to be so! – in fact, generate a higher net effect for weaker incomes than vice versa. This has not only the budget service of the House – you should accept it – but also the economic research institutes, the Fiscal Council, and, and, So don't go out, Mrs. Yildirim, and tell – with all due respect – what you have written down anyway, only it has nothing to do with the tax reform! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Madam President! ...in deplorable form of ladies!]] [[Further calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Yildirim.]] I am also representing the Minister for Climate Change today, and I focus primarily on the ecological points, and not worry, because otherwise we would have more fun. It'll go on then. Especially if, from a social point of view, you recommend that energy prices become too high in stages – you can see that either way, or so – this reform work has finally built up a bit of smart, namely that CO2 prices vary along the fluctuations in raw energy prices. So if they were to explode particularly, which happens phase by phase – admittedly, we are experiencing it – then the CO2 price will be increased less. If, however, what is not excluded, the energy market were to look like a fall in prices – which, as Mrs Colleague Herr has said, cannot really be done ecologically – then the CO2 price would increase. What does this lead to, fourthly, in the result? – That there is a more reliable price path, and that is what environmental economists have been demanding and demanding for years and decades – that there be planning for the investments of companies, for these decisions, even for households. If the question arises of buying a new car, then these prices are at least as decisive as they are in two, three, four years, or even longer, and not only now in the second. Don't pretend people couldn't anticipate that! In any case, economic operators are sure because they live on it, otherwise they would no longer be on the market at all. So much market economy must be, even for the SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Zarits.]] This is the sluice to this construction, and so it will continue. If you look at the overall effects, including the social – and regional – that's good, as we have accepted something from the Austrian People's Party, in fact – you see that we have a basic salary for an adult in all regions with the first 100 euros. This usually covers, on average, the energy costs, the additional costs that come from the CO2 price. That's just mathematically logical, you'd make the effort to really calculate – but that doesn't fit your Taferl. I am not let go of my speech by means of a proper search, which is probably the motto. But you can count on it! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It can't be different at all, for two reasons. First of all, industrial and economic operators also have to carry parts of the CO2 price; not so much because we compensate them partly because we want them to be competitive too, but there is something left there. However, it is distributed to households by 100 percent. That is to say, a net increase alone. It is precisely reversible, Mr Krainer, at least at this point. And: Why does a distribution effect come from top to bottom if you want to express it this way to perhaps use your language as well? – Because households with lower incomes have much lower energy costs than households with higher incomes – in absolute numbers, you have demanded them. But if I'm going to distribute it per head and household, it's clear what comes out: The lower ones benefit more. That's so simple! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] Then there is the regional compensation, which is very useful when this basic salary has once been paid, since not all over Austria has the same situation. Yes, there may be cases where it is in the one community and so in the next, that's all true. But it is not only the effort, but the The aim is to bring in an additional regional – I say it – justice effect, which also has a social component. It is true, as Klubobmann Wöginger said, that in the forest district the path to the hospital, to the pharmacy, to the kindergarten is another one and the infrastructure is not so present at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Once public transport and infrastructure are better developed there – these are the two elements that have been scientifically used there – then this gap will close. [[Abg. Matznetter: You have been pulled over the table!]] That's why: If we are good, this will lead to this regional climate bonus being aligned in the payout. But it is based on the conditions under which people must live. Let's take them with us. That is the most important thing that there is this social balance, otherwise we don't have to start it at all. There are big transformations in front of us, yes, and that's just a start. This will not achieve the climate objectives alone, but it does not claim to be a reasonable person, Mrs Herr, no one says that! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] But it is a part, an instrument in this direction. I think you should also agree in the group itself. I hear it all the time, and I can even understand that in the short term, from the club woman down – only from the colleague Mr. I do not hear anything about it, then she says so – that we should reduce VAT on energy, better yesterday than the day after. – Yes, it can be considered because there is now this energy price explosion which is much more dramatic than it really is, but that is another question. If you equalize this over ten years, you'll see that the curve is flatter, but that's another question. You only have to understand, there is only one gas price for the household and a tap column price for the spray: Do you want it more expensive or cheaper now? Please be glad to get some information! Both at the same time do not go out and you should say goodbye to making social policy on the pillar. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Baumgartner]] But we need social policy, which is why we are turning it around, and that is why these distribution effects arise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] It will be so that the prizes – yes, Mrs. Herr, we agree – will rise for the emission, the good will become cheaper and the harmful will be more expensive. This is the main benefit of the whole exercise, and it will be achieved. But vice versa – in another place, but with the same money – there is a social balance. That's the logic and wisdom that's implemented there, and you can't just talk that away, not other social issues. So much for that. Yes, it is true that the Greens would have preferred it, for example, as regards the additional relief of companies, rather target the wage-related taxes, because this would also have an impact on jobs. But it is not a world downfall, as you do, to reduce the corporate tax from 25 to 23 percent. If you look at the net dimension of the discharge of 18 billion euros to the next four years, I think, then you will be able to calculate that the corporate tax reduction occurs in it, but is a very small part of it. So stay. Please be nice on the ground! Then we can all stop at some taferls again, but you shouldn't be infected with your taferl. In that respect, I think it goes exactly in the right direction, although individuals in the government have made it a little different, but it is an overall work that in some elements has irreversible direction markers inside, and that is really the good thing about this. Because we're already on the good side, again what's on it: Good will be relieved, and harm will be more expensive. To do this, one must finally confess, instead of attaching to any misguided populism. I would only have expected this privilege in this group. [[pointing towards FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15640	I now have a word on business treatment. Please, Mr Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15667	Madam President. We have become a witness for a number of times, as Mr Vice-Chancellor here, in a sluggish, despective way, like a common table jargon, which he is using permanently, has specifically annotated Members here in the House personally, brings them into discredit, because they are supposed to read prefabricated speeches from the paper, do not go into arguments, and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] I am deeply disappointed that a former Member of this House, with such little respect, is facing the individual speakers, Members of this House, and here also the people who are permanently on the streets for their legitimate interests, just because he does not like it politically, treats it with respect, in a way that does not at all correspond to the dignity of the House and a member of the Government. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] All of this, taking advantage of the time available to him without limitation – unlike Members who often have only 1, 2 or 3 minutes of speaking time – he demands many things, underlies many things and praises the representatives of the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] As a whole, this creates a disapprovent tone, which is then suitable for the public to make the politicians bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I would ask you, Madam President, to do this on the subject of the next presidency: How is it to be used to deal with members of the government who are constantly raising only the moral index finger, but not with arguments, but with diffamation towards Members and the population?
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15742	I now have another speech on the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15766	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen on the government bank! Social democracy would also like to express itself very critically to the statements made by you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. I refer to the deplorable expression of a Social Democratic Member, especially as it does not matter whether someone writes or not or how someone comes to information. I am not used to the fact that this is also happening by the Government Bank from the Greens – we are unfortunately used to it by the ÖVP – and I ask you to refrain from doing so in the future and not to express insults here! [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15802	Mrs. Club Chairman Meinl-Reisinger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15826	Yes, I agree with what has been said, but I would like to say that we may really discuss this in the Presidential once. This is nothing new, I have experienced this also under Turquoise-Blue, that there have come clear statements from the government towards the Members. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, So I think that's where we should all get on the nose, and you're very special. Don't you sit here a little in the glass house if you just called people's representatives a people's traitor? [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens as well as with the Abg. Lindner.]] In view of the debate that will continue, I appeal: Let's all get a bite together! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15856	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? [[Abg. Maurer: Yes, please!]] - Please, Mrs. Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15891	At this point, I would like to follow what Mrs Meinl-Reisinger has just said: Someone who here calls people's representatives as people's traitors and then also has the chuzpe to stand down and use a Rules of Procedure with unlimited speaking time to express himself in such a way, I think that is self-evident. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz]] On the other hand, I would like to say at this point that we are here in Parliament and that we Members are right to call on the ministers to state here that they are speaking and replying and that they are commenting on what we are deciding here. [[Call the SPÖ:But not insulting!]] I can very well remember a lot of discussions that we have already had here, in which we have complained about the fact that the ministers do not go into the debate here. That's exactly what Werner Kogler, as Vice chancellor, does quite explicitly: He listens and looks at what people say. And the suggestion, when the budget service and many other bodies have said the same expertise, that one cannot be confused by facts in one's own speech, must also be allowed in such a debate. On the contrary, I think it is an enrichment if the ministers, the vice-presidents and the chancellors act in this way, listen carefully and actively to what Members say here. I think this is a good parliamentary tradition.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15929	Is there a word on the Rules of Procedure? - That's not the case. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, I am fulfilling the wish and the President-in-Office of the Council, even on the basis of the minutes we have, which will be put to the discussion. I also have the impression that this is always seen by everyone. Secondly, I would like to say that I have also rejected this statement by Mr Angerer. I refer to it and, above all, in so far It is a matter of situating when it is my duty as chairman to de-escalise. That is why this call for moderation is exactly the right instrument for this. This call for moderation in terms of expression, of course, applies to Members in this House, but also to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. That is to say, the task of respecting the dignity of the House and of holding an objective debate, as we all want, is for Members and, I mention it again, for the ladies and gentlemen at the government. That is what we are going to do in the debate. Mr Christoph Zarits came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e15976	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Minister of Health! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! After this brief interruption, Madam President, I try to discuss and describe the tax reform to be decided on today very objectively. We have a package in front of us, a package with a volume of 18 billion euros: EUR 18 billion for the discharge of Austrians. 18 billion euros of discharge, which means that is the largest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic. Our objectives are clearly formulated: We want to relieve labour, we want to relieve workers. Of course, we also want to strengthen Austria's economic location, to relieve entrepreneurs because they are, create jobs and secure jobs. Of course, we also want to create environmental incentives – and this has already been mentioned today. Many people talk about climate change and environmental protection. Yes, and we are also taking action in the tax system on climate and environmental protection. This is important, and now is the right time to take the first steps here. What do we want to achieve with the tax reform? . We want a sustainable tax reform, and people are to be relieved in a sustainable way. We want a socially just tax reform, and above all the tax reform should also be effective. Everyone is relieved: all occupational groups, all income groups, all age groups – from the children and families with the family bonus to the pensioners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In total, it is 17 individual measures that we want to implement in the next few months and in the next few years, step by step. The first is that we mainly want to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. With the social security bonus – which has already been addressed today – we relieve small incomes in particular. The amount of retirement pensions and also the amount of transport deposits will be increased, 825 euros and 650 euros relief for small and medium-sized incomes will be increased. We have already taken the first steps in 2020 in terms of tax reduction. The first level of taxation was reduced from 25 to 20 percent in 2020. In July 2022, the next step was to reduce the second level of taxation from 35 percent to 30 percent. This is an average relief of 650 euros per year for an employee. In July 2023 the next Step: The third level of taxation is reduced from 42 to 40 percent, which is a discharge of 580 euros per year. That is, for the categories of income we lower, this is a discharge volume of €2.75 billion. The focus is now on the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes, which is also extremely important to us at this stage. Whoever works is supposed to have some of it. The people who get up in the early days who work are supposed to have more in the stock exchange, should also have more net of gross. The profit participation has already been mentioned by Mr Haubner: This is a long-standing demand of the ÖAAB as employee representative. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Matznetter.]] Staff will be involved in corporate profits with a tax-free amount of EUR 3 000. We saw in the Corona crisis that the corona premium was well accepted and the entrepreneurs paid it to the employees. The family bonus – it was addressed – is a success model. We introduced it two years ago: 1,500 euros per child. It is now being further developed: up to 2 000 euros per child per year. The additional amount of the child is increased from EUR 250 to EUR 450, which is above all a discharge for single and single educators. Ladies and gentlemen! We have very, very much before: 18 billion euros in the coming years for the site, for workers and for environmental measures. We also need to invest in climate protection. It is now time not only to talk about it but also to anchor environmental and environmental measures in the tax system. It is a good reform – I ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16043	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16068	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to stay on the content side, but I would like to go back one step. Today, we are discussing a tax reform that gives itself the labels to be sustainable and ecological. At the same time, even the most likely observers say that the impact of the tax reform on emissions will be a maximum of 4 percent of the total volume. So, now I'd like to go back a step: We are currently in a pandemic, and we experience that there must be a well-functioning cooperation between the economy, science and the state in an exceptional situation. Sometimes it works better, sometimes it works worse. If we finally get out of this pandemic at some point, we will hopefully be even more aware that we are in the middle of a climate crisis where there is a need for equally strong cooperation between science, economics and politics. You will then have solved 4 percent of the problem, 96 percent will remain, and there is the question: How do we cope with the climate crisis? – We know that a change of climate means an energy turnaround, and we also know that international 9 of 10 euros in the field of energy policy come from the private capital market. The money is not from state investment, but from private sources, and there is a great deal of money. entrepreneurship, it is very much about available employees. We will now come back to the tax reform: In a situation where we know that there is a huge shortage of labour, in a situation where we know that we will need much more trained workers to vote on the energy transition, from the government side does not once come the word "additional cost reduction". – This is the central problem. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If today we offer a staff member to work 25 instead of 20 hours, then the answer comes: I would like to work 25 hours, but my real net wage drops if I work more! We build a state exclusively from different bonus ideas and subsidies and less and less so that performance actually pays off. This is well thought out, far beyond the middle class, but, of course, especially for the middle class. If we do not manage to create incentives for people to move more into the labour market through a reduction in additional labour costs and a much more massive reduction in income taxation, then we will not overcome the climate crisis by a proper energy transition. There is a need for incentives for women to return to their career early after family start-up, as it needs an incentive for part-time workers to want to work more full-time. All of this can't be found in any way. For us NEOS is clear: There needed to be a real revolution in the tax system and not a revolution. But that's what the government is delivering here when you look at it more closely in relation to the climate crisis. Central element – and with that I would like to close it –: We have the situation that politics is always too slow; it was in the pandemic, it is in the climate crisis. The economy can be the central element of the solution. But this is only in two ways: if we promote company pleasure through the tax system, so that people make themselves independent and become part of the solution; and if, on the other hand, we make an ascent promise to all the people who work with us in companies so that they know when they work when they are part of the solution, then they can actually build up something in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16122	Next speaker: Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16146	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers! I am also very consciously turning to taxpayers because it is a good day for them to decide on the eco-social tax reform today. This eco-social tax reform is precisely in line with the concept pursued by the ÖVP since Joschi Riegler, namely the principle of the eco-social market economy. And the central element of this eco-social tax reform is quite clear: We want to relieve people in this country. I should also like to point out that it is actually the second stage of this tax reform, and we have already decided on the first stage in 2020. At that time, we have already reduced the first tax rate from 25 to 20 percent for those who earn little, between EUR 11 000 and EUR 18 000. At the time, we already have the Children's bonus introduced. And for farmers, I should like to remind you once again that at the time we removed some limited factors as regards full-time farming: the 120 livestock units, the 60 hectares of agricultural land and a few others. Today we decide on the second stage. The main point of this decision is, in turn, the reduction of tax rates, namely the reduction of the second rate, which concerns the annual incomes of between 18 000 and 31 000 euros, from 35 to 30 percent and the rate level three, which concerns the annual incomes of between 31 000 and 60 000 euros, from 42 percent to 40 percent. – You see, the lower levels we have lowered much more than the upper levels. It also increases the family bonus, from 1 500 to 2 000 euros, and this concerns very, very many families in Austria, and the amount of children is also increased from 250 to 450 euros. What is very important, and I should also like to thank you, Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Magnus Brunner, for the fact that in the future not only single teachers will be involved in this package, but that, for example, flat-rate farms – and here again, the message to farmers – can benefit from it in the future. A key point is also the CO2 price – this tax reform should be climate-relevant and promote climate protection – but the climate bonus for all citizens in our country is equal. There is also a special scheme for farmers. There are, of course, several measures for the economy which have been addressed: The investment tax is increased, the corporate tax is reduced, and much more. As far as social security is concerned, there will be a step-by-step scheme in the future for the benefit of low-earners, i.e. a contribution reduction. And I can contact Gust Wöginger and thank him for being the one who has made a significant contribution to the fact that there will be a further reduction of the fictitious outpouring to 7.5 percent for farmers. So we have an eco-social tax reform. The environmental impact for the environment and for nature is high, the social impact for families and low-paid people is high, and it is an economic effect that creates about 30 000 jobs, which relieves the factor labour by 2025 by about 4.3 billion euros. It is a tax reform that rewards climate change, a tax reform that sets priorities, a tax reform that gives incentives, and a tax reform that will benefit every citizen in Austria, and that is why we should agree to it widely.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16198	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Rausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16219	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Above all: Ladies and gentlemen in the House! It is a special honor and great pleasure to listen to the Austrian National Council from today, here with you, to form politics with you for Austria and Austria. I almost want to say that I am a parliamentarian out of passion. I have already been allowed to learn and live in the Federal Council, including in the Lower Austrian Land Day, and have learned to appreciate Parliament as a place of debate in the best sense of the word, namely in the sense that we are dealing with each other, with Our very different accesses, attitudes, experiences, and that this is not so easy, not a very small task that is sometimes very demanding, I think, has already shown today. This is not a surprise either, because the voters have indeed given us a very responsible task, namely that we shape the rules of the game in their sense, namely those rules of the game, which determine how we want to shape our living together as a society. This is an assignment that I take very seriously personally, which I will also deal with with with humility and with seriousness, and which I look forward to if we can fulfil it in the best possible way possible. I think in times like this, it needs good will and best will from all sides, and I will bring it in. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The eco-social tax reform, which is currently under negotiation and decision-making, is exactly that. We are reorganising the rules of our cohabitation, we are also changing them a lot, so that prosperity can continue to grow for all – it may be meant in the most positive sense for me, but it is important that it is a Can, because from my point of view, my conviction, the state cannot guarantee prosperity, but it can do a lot to make it possible. It can offer opportunities to encourage people to develop, to ensure the success of this co-existence and prosperity. So we regulate the rules of the game so that prosperity can grow for all, that people remain more of their income and that we support climate-friendly behavior. These are the pillars of the eco-social market economy, as it has and has pursued the People's Party as its regulatory model, and we do so with this decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do this with the market economy as a basis for general prosperity – I say once again, the comparison between market economy and non-market economy-oriented countries, which makes sure, I think – with social security, where it is necessary, with social security for us also means that we have heard this many times today that we also have incomes, and this is all the better if the state takes away less. We therefore relieve ourselves of this tax reform. And as a third pillar in the eco-social market economy, we want to make climate-damaging behaviour more expensive – therefore, the quoted CO2 price – and support climate-friendly behaviour – a model of our values world with which we reconcile freedom and responsibility, freedom and security. I think we have discussed this in detail in recent weeks and months. They have all discussed this, passionately, many arguments have been put forward, and yet we do not agree in all. I think that's okay, too. This is part of the debate in the best sense. In any event, I am very pleased that one of my first decisions on my first day in the House is the consent to the eco-social tax reform. I say thank you to all those who have contributed, and I am glad to see many like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16285	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16315	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Minister of Labour! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Without going into detail, because if you have been careful, you know the key points of this tax reform, I would like to say that – just as we have said in the budget debate, in the budget decision in November –: This government does not manage this state, but this government is shaping this state and is also shaping it for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Einwallner and Mr Matznetter.]] This eco-social tax reform is EUR 18 billion. We know from all experts where the priorities are: This is in the family sector, and that is in the retail sector, which is the two areas in which the most relief is made. I do not want to mention all the other points in the near future, but we know that no one has stayed on the track and everyone benefits from this tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] Looking back very briefly – I know that will be forgotten quickly –: ==References====External links== March 2020, we went to a lockdown, it followed a world crisis, the biggest post-war crisis. At that time, the government – under Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, Vice Chancellor Kogler and Finance Minister Blümel – said: We will help quickly, because who helps quickly helps twice! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] There was a lot of money in the hand. We know that private bankruptcy has even fallen during the crisis period, we know that commercial bankruptcy has fallen during the crisis period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] If anyone had said a year and a half ago that we decided today to have the largest discharge package in the Second Republic, everyone would have laughed at it. The Minister for Finance has said that the EU is asking: How are you doing? At that time, in the crisis, it was quickly helped, and we now have a much stronger growth than other countries. This shows that we have invested the money properly at the right time. That is why, after this short period of time, we have the opportunity to address the biggest – an eco-social – tax reform. There was great criticism of the liberals and the SPÖ today, I must say: Mr Fuchs, you know that much of this tax package has already been achieved in our government programme, when we were together with you. [[Abg. Deimek: He said that...! That's the problem!]] And with regard to the SPÖ – because we are talking about eco-social tax reform in particular – we know that this has already been done in three, four of their government programmes. But it was never possible to implement it. As part of the coalition of the ÖVP with the Greens, we have succeeded in leading Austria into the future, and this has also been taxed. I think we can be proud that other states are looking at us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16385	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16410	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! This package from our point of view is really useful, forward-looking, on the table. It has been discussed a lot, I will try not to make any repetitions here, but I would like to take the opportunity to address two points. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing is: One of my previous speakers from the SPÖ, Mrs Yildirim, meant that billions of support measures were paid to companies. - Yes, thank God! This has not least saved many jobs here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] She criticises and says she would like to know who has received these support funds. [[Abg. Yildirim: Why don't you publish?- Oh, my God!]] Not least, representatives of your group or your associated economic institutions have brought some of these examples before the curtain themselves in recent days. Then I ask you: Where do they have the information? – I will tell you once again, so that the audience will know: There is a transparency database at European level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] We have the obligation that all support measures over 100 000 euros be registered there. They're visible there. This is transparency, Mrs Colleague! - So far to correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Yildirim.]] I would, of course, like to thank all those who have negotiated this package and have presented us here. I would also like to take the opportunity to express my express thanks to taxpayers because: Yes, it is right, without their contribution, without the many great employees in the enterprises, the great entrepreneurs we have, the many innovative businesses in Austria, which have continued to contribute to a functioning system, for the very strong welfare state in Austria, even during this difficult time, would not be possible. You, I think, are particularly grateful for their services, for paying their taxes. The Minister of Finance, the Government, all of us can decide on such a balanced package here, because we have so many great workers and entrepreneurs in this country. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16479	Next speaker is Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16504	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A tax reform is intended to relieve people of the burden, and more money is to remain in the money market. However, tax reform should also lead to a positive development, with the aim of turning it in a good direction – in the specialist speech one speaks of control and steering effects. The current eco-social tax reform is fulfilling these things, because we have already heard that people will be relieved of some 18 billion euros over the years, so more money remains for them to live, and at the same time the necessary conversion of our tax system is being carried out, an ecologicalisation of the tax system is taking place. Everyone is talking about climate change, climate change is necessary, and this must also result in political action. The Paris climate targets are to be met with life and an ecologisation of the tax system brings such a thing: Fossil energy sources are taxed, taxed more, and this is intended to motivate people to behave more environmentally friendlyly. Of course, this has to be done and socially acceptable. This tax reform is a success. Congratulations, Minister of Finance, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have succeeded together! – It has been done for many years. However, I see another aspect and opportunity in this tax reform – plus in the many fiscal measures we have already decided – that it can be a driving force for rural areas. In Austria, we have many regions where there is a strong migration, peripheral regions, not only in the alpine area, but also in the rural area, and they need additional impetus. There it is that many people still use fossil energy sources, whether they live in a residential complex, where they hang on a natural gas heater, or they have a single-family house with an oil heating. For this reason, this must be made socially compatible. The same is true of traffic: Transport is one of the main causes of harmful greenhouse gases. A means of disposing of this socially is the climate bonus, which gives people such relief as those who live in regions where public transport is well developed, to receive less money than those who live in regions where public transport does not work. An example: If you wait for the tram in Vienna, the next tram will arrive within 5, 6, 7 minutes, while the subway will be the same. Vienna has a very well developed public health system. This is not the case in many rural regions. In my home country, there are villages that are not so far removed, where the bus leaves in the early morning – he brings the children, the school children to the suburb – and returns in the afternoon and brings them back home. Twice a day, a bus rides! This is so in parts of the Burgenland, but also in Carinthia and in other federal states. Then a second bus goes to Vienna to take the commuters there. I want to say that public transport in many regions is not at all expanded and people need a car. The professional commuters and others – the housewife who goes shopping, the people who go to the doctor who have to go to the pharmacy – need a car to have a decent life. I would not be as light as my colleague, double-builder, criticize the penalty and all these things. People need a vehicle to have a life-worthy life. This is to be judged quite differently in the city of Vienna or in the capitals of the country, and it is therefore important that there is a staggering that a higher climate bonus is paid in the rural regions. But I see another aspect: Corona has shown that our working world has changed dramatically. The Home Office has become a stronger impulse. In recent years, the proportion of home office workers has increased from 10 percent to 40 percent. I see this as an opportunity to strengthen rural life. People who are often highly qualified need to emigrate, commuting, through home office but can do their job from home. The tax measures we have already decided here – for example, that if computers and mobile phones are provided, there is no tax liability, that there is a tax-free home office fee, that there is a deductibility of ergonomic facilities – are therefore important, because this motivates people to work in rural regions – wherever they come from – and in conjunction with public transport this can actually work much better. If the broadband is then expanded even more, not only the cities that are God's thanks without this development have a great chance, but also the rural regions, which are also to be brought to a similar level of prosperity. To sum up, this tax reform, in my opinion, contributes to this, and therefore we fully support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16567	Mr Mag. Mag has now been reported to speak. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Minister's bench! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The question that has been raised several times today – not the first time we had it at the last discussion – is: How social is this tax reform? Is this tax reform social enough or is it not highly unsocial? How ecological is this tax reform? Does this tax reform at all deserve the designation of being eco-social, or is everything just a big swindle, big marketing or whatever? As always claimed by the liberal side, it is even a social and unecological. Ladies and gentlemen! If one asks the question of how social a tax reform is, then the question of distribution justice arises, namely: How does the cake of tax relief or tax reduction spread to the different income groups, to the different people living in that country; how about those who earn little, like those who have a lot? In such a tax reform, it is not as easy as one often believes to estimate the distribution effects accordingly, in particular, because the instruments, namely tax reduction, tariff reduction, for example, are classic measures which actually result in the more income-intensive groups to benefit. Even if you lower the taxes below, those above will benefit more. If you lower the second and third levels of taxation, those above benefit more because often poor, poorer people do not even get into these tax levels. In other words, we also need other instruments to achieve the fairest possible tax reform, for example by making transfer payments, direct payments to households, direct payments to those affected, for example, by reducing taxes, because taxes are paid by all people in that country. Taxation not only pays the rich, taxes also pay those who earn very little, namely by paying VAT, social security contributions, where the overall tax burden is not really much lower than those who earn more. Let us look at – we are lucky to have the current figures – how the distribution of the volume of discharge to the different income groups in this tax reform is actually happening now! Let's take a look at: Is it social or is it not social? If you ask if something is social or not, you also need to find a reference point, a comparison to be able to judge it. The best comparison is probably the supposedly largest tax reform of all time from 2015 and 2016, decided under a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor, very strongly praised and celebrated by social-democratic trade unions. We have the distribution balance of the total volume of this tax reform and our eco-social tax reform. [[keeping a table with a column diagram entitled ‘The distribution of the total volume of eco-social tax reform and tax reform 2015/16’]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, here below you can see the respective incomes five, that is, here are the people who least deserve, here the people who deserve the most. [[on the appropriate columns]] Red is the pillar of the then tax reform under red and black. As you can see, the red pillar in the discharge of the lower income five is only half as high as the green pillar that represents our eco-social tax reform, that is, the eco-social tax reform is much better distributed down. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] At the same time, at the top, in the top five of the incomes, the discharge is interestingly highest, under the red and black largest tax reform of all time. [[Abg. Maurer: That's it!]] The eco-social tax reform does not relieve such an extent in the case of weitems. That is, from the distribution balance, this tax reform, which we decide today, is much better than the last. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] If this eco-social tax reform is supposedly not social, I wonder what was the biggest tax reform of all time from 2015/16, given these very clear figures and facts. I would also like to present another interesting number, because it always means from this page: [[in the direction of FPÖ]] The CO2 tax, the CO2 price hits mainly the lower levels of income, it disperses quite incorrectly. - No, no! [[Keeping a further table with a column diagram with the heading “Division Volume Climate Bonus CO2 Price”]] Those who have dealt with distribution issues and environmental protection know that especially the incomes and the rich have a lot of CO2. This is global, it is also true in Austria. When you look at the CO2 price – in grey – you can see: It's growing, it's increasing progressively. That is, the richer the households, the higher the CO2 tax, the more they pay! That is, the CO2 price is distributed by, from top to bottom. At the same time, we see that especially the lower income groups are particularly burdened by the climate bonus, which is much stronger than the CO2 price. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That means, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the distribution balance is clear, the distribution balance is clear: This tax reform has not only earned the name eco-socially, it is ecological and it is social. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16668	Mr Christoph Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16700	I did not want to extend the Rules of Procedure, but, dear Werner Kogler: I appreciate you personally, but consider your words! Your comments on the colleague Yildirim were more than inappropriate. A green party that had once had a longtime Member Peter Pilz, who then said: That's how old white men are!, should be especially sensitive. That is why I would like to ask for restraint in the future. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you have heard six or seven Members of the Government Party, a kind of important issue, which was mainly self- praise. There were even proper questions, Mr Koza asked the question: Is this all a dizziness? – The question is right, only the answer was wrong, Mr Commissioner! They themselves have lost their way into their red-green and black-green pillars, but they have not answered the key questions in this matter, just as Mr. Obernosterer, who said that the corporate tax reduction would have been for the small business. [[Abg. Koza: Numbers do not lie! ... Numbers don't lie!]] To be honest, Mr Obernosterer, if you were involved in small businesses, they would have abolished the infinite corporate tax in the form of the minimum corporate tax, and not the large corporations, which do not pay any taxes worldwide, would have provided further tax gifts. – This is the true manuscript behind it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: 18 billion euros without counter-financing, that must be brought together once! I have a proposal for how counter-financing would have to be given, which you too would have to agree with. I would like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christoph Matznetter, comrades and comrades, namely that those who have received so much from the corona aid that the sum of profit plus aid is higher than their profit before the Corona era is exhausted. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We do not need anyone who enriches the taxpayers' money. For example, we had KTM, where the dividend was high enough; Starbucks, who have received so much support that they have to pay the minimum corporation tax for 287 years in order to repay it; there we had media market, there we had XXXLutz and as they all are called, there we had Benko with Leiner – a who is who of the friends of Sebastian Kurz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] I therefore propose this motion for a resolution. I want to read it briefly: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this, you would have a relevant funding, draw up with the crisis winners, and the friends of the ÖVP, when there was still a donation time, could make a contribution. Social is not this tax reform, you know it yourself, but Mr Koza can come out so often. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] You yourself get 2 000 euros of family bonus plus here, and the little ones, as described earlier, don't get it?- Oh, my God! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Koza, keeping a writing in height.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Every child is equally valuable, that is the right family support, not what you, Mr Koza, are doing here, namely producing and saying: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We are so social, 2 000 euros for ours, and the small family can be satisfied with 450 or 600 euros! – Yes, yes, get lost in your pillars! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Koza, holding up a piece of paper with column diagram.]] Back to the ecological: Now we have heard the argument with public transport a hundred times. Niko Berlakovich tells us they all have to drive individually in the car. How does that really look? – In reality, space heat is much more stressful than traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] There is in the forest district – that is where Sebastian Kurz is supposed to be – at any time the possibility to get rid of it with a wood heating, so there is a control possibility, one can get out of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] How does it look like in Girl, where he really comes from? - The tenant, the tenant can't do anything. That means that taxes cannot work because you have not taken any action. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] So, that is, of two people – one from the girl and one from the forest district – those who can't do anything, half and the one who can reshape, get the double. And it goes on, because what is the resident of Meidling who travels every day by bus and subway? This cannot reduce the CO2 impact of its transport, but the Waldviertler only needs to establish a driving community. It is completely wrong, it is not social, it is not a steering charge and therefore also unecological. Conclusion: neither social nor ecological – leader next to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16929	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 5 and continue to complete the agenda. [[13:22:41]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1295, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Financial Balance Act 2017, the Environmental Promotion Act, the Care Fund Act, the Health Objective Control Act and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Health Services (1309 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Standing Subcommittee on the Government Template (1298, e.g._Other Organiser Request by the Federal Government for the authorisation of the Austrian representative in the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in accordance with Art. 50b Z 3 B-VG (1305 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e16976	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Andreas Kollross is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17006	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Three brief comments on the financial compensation: Yes, okay, let us extend the financial compensation, but let us first of all also hold an honest debate on the future allocation of tax resources to the three local authorities! We have been experiencing for a long time – this is not just something to do with this government – that the tasks will always be pushed down again and again, into the cities and communities; but when it comes to the financial resources, it is not the case, unfortunately, then we forget very quickly about the cities and communities. If we are discussing the financial compensation, we might also need to discuss it: What actually happens to the share of income, what really happens to the funds to the communities and cities? – Let’s discuss whether we need a detour across the countries at all! There are then reservations, for which you may appoint yourself as mayor of the state government, that you will then get back, in the form of need allocations, money that would actually be automatically available to you. Or do we finally discuss the fact that the funds that would be granted to the communities will also be paid directly to the communities! – First comment. Second note – because, in addition, a request for grants for the municipalities and cities comes in the following sequence: If it were not so sad, you could laugh at it, but again and again in the form of salami tactics comes a government template of ÖVP and Greens, how to make the communities' financial assistance different and better, and again and again it is only piecework. I would just like to remind you that, in fact, since April last year we have been pointing out this situation, and again and again you come out in the goose march and say: No, it's not all that! Then, after April it said in June 2020 at once: Yes, the community investment law is coming. – Then from the beginning, we have pointed out that this will not work because it does not take into account something that is lacking liquidity in the communities. Again, there was the goose march, and everyone explained to us: That's not true! Because it was true then, some of you came in December 2020: Ui, there is another community aid package! – Now there is still 1 billion euros to create liquidity, so that you can pick up the first municipal package at all. We have also said from the very beginning that this will not work, and now the third is because one of them has happened in this second community aid package: After all, it is only a credit, only an advance on the income of the municipalities, which they will have to repay from 2023 onwards. Even there we told you it won't work. Now you come with a very quick request, which you submitted and sent out yesterday, therefore: Yes, there are additional help now! – Why don’t you just go here, listen to us and make a law that is wrong, instead of each time we need a law to repair the old law that you have decided on? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last comment on the right to child care: This could also be done in financial compensation. I just want to say one thing: We are now discussing so much about 2G and 3G. There would be 3G for childcare – and I believe that this would be important – all year round, all day long, free, and that from the first year of life. This is a task that this government has to solve here. I would just like to remind you that there was a German chancellor who looked in favor of his own career, that there is no afternoon care that 1.2 billion euros will not be paid. [[Abg. Hörl: That's stupid!]] That is why the worst thing is going to be done, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we don't talk about it, we'll do it at last! The children, the families, the women deserve to have a right to childcare at last. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] [[13:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17117	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Angela Baumgartner is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17144	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! One cannot stress it often enough and emphasize it: The eco-social tax reform ensures positive macroeconomic effects and increases both value added and employment in Austria – 18 billion euros by 2025. This tax reform is for all Austrians, for employees, for pensioners, for agriculture, for entrepreneurs: Each and every one will have more money at their disposal. As mayor, I am particularly concerned about this tax reform, and this is the financial compensation. This will be extended until 2023 in the course of the tax reform. Why is this extension so important? – The financial compensation is the most important basis for our communities to maintain regional economic dynamics and to maintain infrastructure in our communities, whether in the health, transport and education sector, in the water sector or in the social services sector. Despite economic collapses, short work and lockdowns, the municipalities have done good work. The infrastructure of general care has been secured, and it has also been invested in the future. The municipalities have proved their importance in the overall economic structure. They are regional economic engines. Having the extension of the financial compensation of planning security is very important for our communities. This extension and the associated financial impact have already been taken into account in the budget planning. Today, earnings for countries and municipalities are expected to amount to 29.7 billion euros. This is an increase of 4.4 billion euros. The municipalities account for 12.1 billion euros. In addition, the municipalities receive €0.6 billion in transfer payments – to name just a few figures here. Of course, we must not forget the community investment law either. Transfer payments were also made to the municipalities. Mr Kollross from SPÖ, because you always criticise local finances: It is not a “piece”, it will always react in case of need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] We have repeatedly said, in every financial committee and in every budgetary committee, that the municipal government is always with our Minister of Finance in exchange. If Need is given, then reshoot if you want it that way. [[Abg. Kollross: Yes, yes!]] Now we have the situation again, there is again a need that Mr Finanzminister is responding to, and new resources will be set up. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Prammer.]] Wifo Director Gabriel Felbermayr has not confirmed until this week that the Austrian communities' finances are on average very solid and the Corona crisis has been well handled. He is very positively surprised that the concerns about investment have not come true. According to Wifo's forecast, an increase of 6.8 percent in earnings is expected for 2022, which is due to the favourable economy and employment development. This, in turn, goes hand in hand with the eco-social tax reform. It stands for recovery, for our restart after the crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17193	Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerhard Kaniak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17217	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing not only with the extension of the agreement between the Federal Government and countries on financial compensation, but also with the decision to continue the financial framework as it has been in recent years with this somewhat imaginative and short-term decision. This is the Care Fund Act, it is the Health Objective Control Act, and it is the law on the financing of health and health care institutions. If, in the last two years, the health care experts have agreed on one thing, then it is that the Corona crisis has pointed out the problems in our health system, not only in terms of financing, but also in terms of performance, and many problems such as poor working conditions for caregivers have manifested themselves in the crisis in such a way that the resulting problems have become massively felt. What does this Federal Government do now? – It pretends that the Corona crisis did not exist at all, as if there was no need for action in the entire fragmented financing of our health system. It simply continues writing the financing budgets, although now, after two years of corona crisis, it is already quite obvious and we clearly see that this does not work, but that the problems in all areas are getting bigger and bigger. You are continuing with this law, which you now want to decide, at least at the financial level these problems. There is a unique situation in the care sector, of which the Care Fund Act is a significant part, in Austria, that more than 10 – in some federal states even 15 – percent of long-term care places are empty in the homes, because there is not enough care staff. Mr Federal Minister, do you think that this problem can be solved by a continuation of the existing budget? We have a linear increase path of 3.2 percent of health expenditure for overall health expenditure under the Health Objective Control Act. Federal Minister, believe You're actually able to work out and correct the residues and additional damage caused by the corona pandemic with a linear continuation of the total health expenditure and re-establish the health care at the level on which it was? With regard to the financing of hospitals, the proposal is now also on the table from the Federal Government that there should be costs of 750 million euros for the countries, because the hospitals have been under-financed in the last two years. Yes, do you believe that with a linear continuation of the previous financing, these deficits will not occur again in 2022 and 2023 and that you can solve the human situation that is actually critical in many areas without any additional means? From my point of view, this law, which is on the table here, shows only that the Federal Government is unwholesome and completely unplanned, how it should meet the challenges of this time, how it should work out the consequences of the Corona pandemic, especially in the healthcare sector. Mr. Federal Minister, I can only submit to you: Go deep inside, think about it well! What you want to decide here today will only intensify the problems in our country, in health care, but will not solve any of the existing problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17262	Next speaker is Mag. Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! If you read through the government program of the turquoise-green Federal Government, you can admit honestly – you can see that in some places –: First of all, it's different and second than you think. In fact, no one could expect a corona pandemic and, above all, its profound consequences when it was created. Nevertheless – I am already very proud of that – we have really succeeded in implementing many points of this ambitious government programme. It's just mentioned: Climate ticket, renewable energy expansion, plastic deposit or, as has been decided today, a first price of CO2. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An important point, which is particularly important to me, but also, I believe, is important in the general government structure, because it would have brought about at least as much sustainable change as it would have been, would have been the financial compensation between the federal, state and local authorities. Unfortunately, there have been delays in the recasting of the pandemic. The Federal Government has set itself – and you can read this in the government programme – ambitious goals. At the very top of course – this is nothing new, We have been telling this for 15 years – the development and reduction of transfer flows, but also that we create clear responsibilities. Of course, it is also an evergreen that responsibility and funding are better linked and – that would have been the new – that climate protection is a very essential link within the financial balance, because climate protection is an all-state task and, of course, all local authorities must cooperate. Modern financial compensation must reflect this. A central point for this would be, for example, ecologisation, but also the purpose of promoting housing or the recasting of public funds. You see: The government programme would have planned a lot – I believe that it will make substantial and good improvements, which should be implemented as soon as possible. But since the crisis really – as honest as you have to be – has brought significant changes, it would simply have needed more time and resources. The FAG negotiations are already a really intense matter under normal circumstances – and so, of course, all the more. We are now almost forced to extend the financial compensation for two years. The extension also means that funding, for example for the urban water industry, will be extended by 80 million euros per year for 2022 and 2023, the disbursement of the care fund will amount to almost 900 million euros, and the support for the countries in financing hospitals will be 750 million euros. However, one thing will not be extended in the financial balance – and this is important to me as a replica to colleagues Kollross – as already announced in the budget debate, the 15a agreement on elementary education, because the urgency of a full-year, full-day and above all high-quality childcare throughout Austria is undisputed. I'm sure she can't wait. There needs to be an expansion, it needs improvement, uniform standards and, of course, more resources, and we will implement them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17344	Next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17368	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Finanzminister! We've heard it already: Once again, it is about extending the financial balance. In this Federal Government, one really sometimes has the impression that many things that are simple and easy to work out, because they are on the list, often mean: Just don't rush! I have also always said to your predecessor that I understood that at the beginning of the pandemic, we cannot go into the negotiations on financial compensation. That was clear, but now we've been in this process for two years. He has now moved to the end of 2023, and that is no longer understandable to me personally. There is a great loser in this whole area, and that is, as with the tax reform, the taxpayer who comes back to the handcush. Now, therefore, this financial compensation is again unobstructed and unreformed, a financial compensation that is neither task-oriented nor target-oriented, and in which the person who determines what is paid is rarely the one who pays it, and above all it is not the one who has to collect the tax resources for it. In addition to this extension of the financial compensation, there are also these increases. This certainly includes many useful measures – and we would not dispute that – but it will spend money for which no targets need to be registered. That means spending money, but you don't have to set targets, and you don't have to account for how and, above all, how efficiently the money has been used. We are nevertheless also responsible for the budget of this Republic. I come to my next point: It is also not clear where these funds come from – 750 million euros here, 250 million euros. I suppose you just want to make more debts. When I moved into this high house, I always believed, it's the SPÖ that says: The money is printed in the basement, we just spend once. – For the Greens, it has not surprised me very much, but that now also the ÖVP blows into the same horn is already amazing. However, I take note of it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Brunner.]] Mr Finanzminister, we can discuss it again. Our demands are on the table. My colleague Tomaselli has already said it: It's a Evergreen. That's how I see it. It takes a task-oriented financial compensation, a combination of tasks, expenditure and revenue competence and a tax autonomy, especially through surcharges from countries or by providing income tax to municipalities in order to do something. Generally speaking, more unbundling and greater transparency are needed in this area. I wish you every success in implementing this mammoth procedure – unfortunately only in two years.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17426	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Magnus Brunner, spoke. - Here you go, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17447	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for a law first deals with the extension of the financial compensation. Maybe just briefly to explain, because this has not yet been recorded: What is a financial compensation? – A financial compensation rules how tax revenue is allocated to the federal, state and local authorities. This Agreement shall apply for several years. At the end of the year, the financial compensation would have ended; therefore, there is also the need for at least one extension, so it will be extended by two years until 2023. In – salopp said – normal times, the financial compensation between the federal, state and local authorities is negotiated intensively and for a long time. That's already mentioned. Now we are living, as a result of the Corona pandemic, but in not quite normal times, and that is why, in 2020, the countries have already approached the Federation with the proposal to extend the existing financial compensation for these two years. – That only to explain the background of this decision today. Now Corona was and is Corona and of course Corona remains a huge challenge for our health system, especially in financial terms. This applies particularly to the federal states, which also have to carry the higher exits of the hospitals. We have therefore agreed with the federal states that the Federal Government for lost revenue from the hospitals and higher expenditure of the countries for the years 2020 and 2021 on a flat-rate basis, making this EUR 750 million already mentioned. The lower general government tax revenue, however, not only affects the countries but, of course, also the municipalities. We therefore responded very quickly at the beginning of the crisis and tied up a first package of municipalities so that investment can also be promoted accordingly in the local area. Of course, we have to react to the situation in the crisis. Addressed to the Socialist MEPs to oppose: No, you have to be flexible, of course. That is why we are also in constant exchange with the Congregation about what the needs of the congregations are. That's why these packages, first the municipal billions, by the way, are excellently accepted by the municipalities: 800 million euros have already been retrieved and are thus supporting investment of 3.1 billion euros. We then set up the second community package at the beginning of 2021. On the one hand, the income of the municipalities was increased by EUR 400 million. On the other hand, we have also increased the Structural Funds by EUR 100 million, especially for less-favoured communities. As a third measure in this second municipal package, the municipalities were also guaranteed an increase in their incomes by 12.5 percent in 2021 compared with the previous year. Now there is a good economic development and also an economic recovery. This revenue development has led to an increase of 13.8 percent. It is therefore very much above the guaranteed minimum value. So if one looked at it in retrospect, a guaranteed special advance would not have been necessary at all. However, because the situation is as it is and the communities are naturally required and we also want to continue to get under the arms of the communities in order to ensure sustainable growth and sustainable good development, we also put them under the arms. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Weratschnig on his work.]] Therefore, the Federal Government waives the further roll-out, the repayment of this special advance, and thus makes available EUR 275 million to the municipalities. In the eco-social tax reform, we have also provided for relief measures for countries and communities – and we have mentioned and discussed this in the debate earlier – because, in particular, some measures also benefit smaller incomes and smaller pensions with the increased amounts of redundancies. In order that this additional relief in the area of income tax would not be due to the proportions of income of the countries and municipalities, the federal government will also fully replace these less-income incomes which result from it. In the first year, the figure will be 180 million euros per year and then 220 million euros each in the coming years. So there is a community package once again, because we know how the communities are required and what they are doing. That is why we also have this additional support because we do not make these measures for our own purpose, but rather help to alleviate the economic impact of the Corona crisis on the countries and communities as well. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Of course, as a federal government, we will continue to observe the situation flexibly and remain in constant exchange with the local authorities so that, when action is needed, we can continue to react flexibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17519	Next speaker is Ing. Manfred Hofinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17544	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to repeat very briefly my colleague, Karin, whom I very much appreciate. They have said that the tax resources used by the municipalities are not used transparently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] I really want to reject that. Especially the municipal budgets are very closely controlled, have their own financial audit committee, are controlled by the authorities, so I do not leave that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I think all the municipalities, the councils together with the mayors, are very likely to use the money very well. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Grebien.]] A question, dear Austrians: Who, do you think, organize the winter service at your home or make sure your children are picked up from home for kindergarten or folk school? Who builds and operates kindergartens and public schools? Who organizes road construction, wastewater disposal and so on and so on? Or at this time: Who organises vaccination campaigns or test roads? – It is our communities with quite, very many employees, with many voluntary officials, with the mayors. They do excellent work, thank you very much for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a very good federal system in Austria, which we can really be very, very proud of. But that's where it takes money. What money is used for this purpose? – State tax revenue. How much does each community get? – This is precisely defined in the 2017 Financial Balance Act. It is a very complex work by which each municipality knows exactly how much it gets from tax resources per resident in the municipality. We are now continuing this work for two years until 2023. It is quite, very important for the communities – especially in the current situation, in the Corona era – that they really have planning security, especially in financial areas. I think we're doing really well. To this end, I would also like to make an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment allows what the Council of Ministers has decided to do, namely to bring a third package of municipalities to the rails. I would like to stress that the government and the government groups are really a very important concern for the communities. In the past, Mr Kollross, we have already implemented the first package, the Community Investment Act 2020 with 1 billion euros, which, together with the municipalities, has boosted the regional economy, and the second package last year, with which we have mainly promoted the weak communities. As a local speaker, I am very pleased that yesterday the Council of Ministers presented the third municipal investment package, which includes an increase in earnings of EUR 275 million and – the municipalities are also responsible for hospital financing – also includes a compensation of EUR 750 million. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] For the contribution of the municipalities, especially for the low-earners in the ecological tax reform, we will also achieve a compensation by 2025. The third municipal package comprises 1.9 billion euros – thank you very much. As a local speaker and as a representative of many mayors, I am particularly pleased that our needs and our demands have been met so quickly. I am particularly grateful to our Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer, our Finance Minister, Magnus Brunner, our clubman and our coalition partner, Elisabeth Götze. We don't abandon our communities. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[13:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17715	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Maximilian Köllner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17739	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is good that, at last, there is clarity about the distribution of fiscal resources and that the financial compensation is extended by two years, although we must say: Surprisingly, the end of the financial compensatory period did not come. But we are in a pandemic – you have also said it – these are special times. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are already in the federal, state and local authorities, I would like to make a brief statement: We can all remember when the ÖVP boldly announced the “light at the end of the tunnel” and the end of the pandemic at a time when there was no talk about it for a long time. Instead of taking responsibility for protecting the population, Marketing important, although experts have warned that we can easily move to the next wave at speed. If Austria were to rely solely on the corona policy of this Federal Government, our country would be lost. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, the self-responsible action of the communities has ensured that not everything will collapse. This is once again a proof that the communities are at the heart of our political system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The municipalities, the mayors and the councillors have also been able to clean up their chaos, the chaos of the Federal Government. You have organized the test stations in the places, placed vaccinations on your feet, or explained your complicated regulations to the citizens. It is also the communities that continue to do so, no matter what is coming. As a thank you – so to speak – the communities received an aid package in the previous year, which they eventually have to pay for themselves, because what you want to sell as a municipal billion was nothing but an advance on the municipal income shares of 1 billion euros. But if the municipalities are bleeding out financially, it doesn't mean money for roads and walkways, no money for housing, for kindergartens or school renovations. What you have currently presented in the Council of Ministers is an attempt to repair the whole thing, but it comes very late and is still not the yellow of the egg. We therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am active in community policy myself. I know what the community representatives do to make life attractive in the places. Support You will support our request, then You thus help the communities with aid packages, which are not a dirty haven, but really! Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17889	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Magnificence comes to the fore. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17916	“The foundations of the free state are the free community.” – Mr President! Mr. Federal Minister! With this postulate in 1849, the municipalities in the Austrian part of the monarchy were founded and established in the provisional municipal law. From the beginning, the communities were a kind of dual nature, on the one hand as a state authority, implementing the laws which, for example, the federal government adopts – for example, reporting – or the countries adopted – building law, on the other hand, but on the other hand, in addition to this task as a state authority also as a local life world. And this local world of life is so designed that it is based on the principle, on the right of self-management. However, there can only be self-administration if it is equipped with a financial margin, and in the Austrian legal system we talk about the so-called financial compensation. The financial compensation is a so-called law, Mr Kollross. The financial compensation, which is decided here in Parliament – and this is usus for decades – is always based on an agreement by the so-called financial compensatory partners, and the Parliament as a legislative body takes note of this agreement and then takes note of this pact. We now note, with the extension of the financial compensation, that the financial compensatory partners have also agreed to extend by two years the Pact adopted in 2016, which should apply in 2017 to 2021. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, we are also extending the validity of other important laws in order to preserve this scope of the communities within the meaning of the right to self-government. For example, we are also extending the Environmental Promotion Act for these two years in order to provide the communities with funding in the area of urban water management – in other words, drinking water supply, wastewater treatment – so that they can fulfil their tasks. For example, we also extend the Care Fund Act. We support the countries and thus directly and indirectly the communities on many issues of financing the care tasks on the ground. It is the task of the countries and municipalities to provide care services such as care facilities. In order to make it easier to finance them, today's decision to extend the Care Fund Act – EUR 436 million for this year, EUR 455 million in the coming year – will provide the basis for maintaining this scope within the meaning of the right to self-management. Ladies and gentlemen, with this support from Parliament, the communities will be able to maintain this principle of self-government. Remember, there are currently 2 093 communities in Austria – I say consciously at present, because that is also in constant change – and we have a great diversity among the communities. The largest municipality in which we are located here in Parliament, is the city of Vienna with 1.9 million inhabitants, and the The smallest municipality in Austria is located in the district of Reutte with currently 41 inhabitants – and you hear correctly. By the way, it is even smaller, Mr. colleague from Burgenland, than Tschanigraben with currently 67 inhabitants. So we have parish sizes from 41 inhabitants to 1.9 million inhabitants, and in our legal system, each municipality has the same rights and obligations in principle. However, it has in any case the constitutionally protected fundamental right to self-government, but this fundamental right can only be lived if there is a financial room to shape the habitat, the reality of life on the ground. This decision, which we are now taking here, to extend the financial compensation and the validity of the accompanying laws, to provide the municipalities with further investment packages and, for example, to change the way the advances are rolled up, ensures this very financial scope of the communities. For us – and this is quite clear – is true: The communities are the foundations of a free state, and we will actively support these foundations.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e17973	There is now no mention of this in the word. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on Agenda items 1 to 5. [[14:05:00]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 5
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e18001	We shall now come to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 5, which I shall take separately from each item on the agenda. Before we vote, I ask the clubs if an interruption is desired. - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Ecosocial Tax Reform Act 2022 Part I in 1306 of the Supplements. The Members have a head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues, made an additional request. Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. DDr. Fuchs and Dipl.-Ing. Double builder before. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposal and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 2 to 8 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 9 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 11, Z 12 lit. a to d, f and g, Z 13 and 14 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 15 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 16 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 C 17 and 18 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 C 19 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 20 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 21 to 28 and Art. 2 Z 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 2 Z 3 to 5 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 6, Art. 3 and Art. 4 C 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues have an additional request concerning the insertion of Z 1a and 1b in Art. 4 to be introduced. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 4 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues and colleagues have an additional request concerning the insertion of the Z 2a in Art. 4 to be introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 4 Z 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote separately on Articles 6 and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 8 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Kalte Progression’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 'CO2 tax: make consumer-friendly and socially effective'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Price monitoring, inflation stopping and the introduction of a fuel price cover'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Christoph Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, on the special levy for Corona-Crise-Winners. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft climate bonus law, title and receipt in 1292 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft eco-social tax reform law 2022 Part III in 1294 of the supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Vogluer, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law, title and receipt in 1294 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Vogluer, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Financial Balance Act 2017, the Environmental Promotion Act, the Care Fund Act and other laws, in 1295 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Mr Kopf, Mr Götze and Mr Cots, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Andreas Kollross, colleagues, on the right to child care from 1 January. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Andreas Kollross, ladies and gentlemen, on the security of municipal finances in the crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request of the Standing Subcommittee in ESM matters, the authorisation attached to the Committee report 1305 of the Supplements in accordance with § 74d para. 1 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:14:34]] 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2173/A by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Members of Parliament on a Federal Law on the Imprisonment against COVID-19 (COVID-19 Imprisonment Act – COVID-19-IG) (1312 d.B.) 7. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the Vaccination Act (1314, e.g.) 8. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Act and the 1950 Epidemic Act (1313, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e18434	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Klubobmann Herbert Kickl. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e18464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Estimated Members of Parliament! But especially dear Austrians, who today, I would like to say, follow this historic debate – and it will probably be – at home! I'll tell you the way it is, I'll tell you without any doubt: I'm horrified, I'm out of control, I'm shocked and I'm shocked at what the Federal Government, consisting of ÖVP and Greens, wants to set up a sham opposition here and today in the framework of the Imprisonment Act. I assume that there are currently millions of people in this country who feel the same way I do. I will tell you why: simply because this introduction of a vaccination obligation – which is really nothing but a vaccination – is nothing but a huge attack on the freedom of the Austrians and because it is a real attack, I would say, on the human dignity of the Austrian population. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] All this has been planned and prepared entirely acribically by a responsible federal government under the command of a responsible Federal Chancellor, hand in hand with a responsible Minister of Health. This is the government that people outside the walls of this Parliament and outside your ministries have long said that it is the worst and coldest government Austria has ever had. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, one could also say that this law is being turned down by representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens, and also without responsibility, by Members who have forgotten that this Parliament is not an extended workbench for ministries, who have forgotten that they have given a vow to the Austrian federal constitution and that this House is obviously confused with a general assembly of pharmaceutical lobbyists, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is even more difficult to do: These irrantious actors are supported by equally unresponsible representatives of so-called opposition parties called SPÖ and NEOS. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that you are in hostage of your two party chairmen, two ladies, who sacrifice everything that is sacred to their parties for a very, very cheap side role! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] For a side role in a pitiful government spectacle, their own principles are thrown overboard, their own voters, their own members, their own officials and their own club are betrayed. You can really congratulate yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this vaccination duty is an act of injustice. As millions of Austrians are downgraded, they would say in Neudeutsche. They are no longer independent, no longer sovereign, but they come to the level of commanders, of subjects, of servants, of their own bodies, would probably have said Mr. Schallenberg, your predecessor of unkind memory. With this vaccination duty, ladies and gentlemen, totalitarianism is being set in motion in Austria. It is nothing else, it is the introduction of health Communism. [[Abg. Steinacker: Parliament is the place of democracy! That's not totalitarian!]] It is a trap of history that we introduce to the fight against a Chinese virus the Chinese model of society, which is characterized by many things, but not by freedom and democracy, in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Mr Gabriela Schwarz and Mr Steinacker.]] Totalitarianism: What the individual wants doesn't count anymore. [[Abg. Steinacker: You don't understand that correctly!]] It only counts more of what is good for the masses; and what is good for the masses, that will give us Kapazunder from the format of a Minister of Health Mückstein in the future. They will tell us what's good for the masses, and the one who doesn't stick to it will be persecuted like a criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a door opener for dilettantism and arbitrariness alike and can never find the freedom of consent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I tell you quite honestly: I am ashamed today of this place and this speaker's chair for the representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens, and I am ashamed of the Members of the NEOS and of the Social Democracy who want to go through all this here, who want to go through it in their blending, without regard to losses. [[Abg. Wöger: You don't need to be ashamed!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I am also ashamed of those who have not found the courage to express a dissenting opinion in the vote here in Parliament, but rather to remain at home with some dubious excuses. [[Abg. Wöger: You are ashamed of yourself!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Substance! That's a massive assumption!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time I am proud – very, very proud! – to be Klubobmann and the party chairman of the Liberal Group here in this House, because we are the only ones who do not participate in this nonsense; because we are offering your totalitarian efforts the forehead; because we vote against it, and because without If and But we defend the freedom of the Austrian people, and with it the constitution and the truth in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, I'm not surprised that you've driven the negative development so far that it's come so far that we're at this point today, and I'm going to tell you why. Remember December 2020: At that time, the Freedom Party launched a petition against vaccination in this country. That was two weeks before you started your vaccination. That is why we did this because we were alarmed and shocked when it came to bringing this vaccination to the public as an exclusive game changer and declaring anything else inadmissible. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: The horse worm is also inadmissible!]] This has alerted us and made us watchful. We told the population: You'll see, beware, be careful, it's going out for a vaccination! Everything else is just preliminary, and at the end is the total power of a federal government and, on the other hand, the total extradition and the total ignorance of the Austrian population. That is what we have said, and that is what we have been disdained and made contemptuous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This government and with it, of course, the mainstream media, how should it be different, have called us liars. Much more happened: The representatives of this Federal Government have sworn to Stein and Leg that there will never be any vaccination. I brought you a few quotes to refresh you – to boost your memory: Colleague Köstinger in April 2021: We definitely do not want to have a vaccination in Austria. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Let's not do it anyway!]] [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Eh not! Would you have joined us...!]] The Green Minister for Health Mückstein: So I'm against a vaccination duty because I don't think we're gonna get anything to do with it. ÖVP-Klubobmann Wöinger, here in Parliament: “I stress one thing: There is no vaccination in this country, and it will not exist either.” Your former Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, if you can still remember: We don't have a vaccination obligation in Austria, and that's good. Minister for Constitution Edtstadler: I exclude a vaccination obligation categorically. “It won’t be there. People should decide for themselves.” Last but not least, Werner Kogler must not be missing: I exclude a vaccination obligation, I actually exclude a general vaccination obligation. [[Abg. Martin Graf: That's incredible!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and now this vaccination is on the doorstep, in a few hours you want to decide on it here. Now I'm asking you [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Who said the untruth and lied to the people? Who gave the people pure wine and told you the truth? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every one of these statements I quoted, and not all of them at Weitem, is a single sting into the heart of your credibility. They are bleeding in the meantime as far as your credibility is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem of the Federal Government: There is nothing left of this credibility after two years of so-called pandemic control. I understand you're hiding it from the ÖVP and the Greens. But the fact that NEOS and SPÖ do not notice is quite surprising. You now trust those who decide with you in a few hours what they have excluded for a year. You trust the ones you lied to and now explain to you that all this is necessary, the only way out of the crisis, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Steinacker: Yes, why are we standing where we stand?]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a self-confident representative of an opposition party, that cannot be your serious! There's no such thing as that, I'd like to say. Faith You really do know that people outside the walls of Parliament do not know what is happening outside the borders of Austria at the moment, that they do not know that in Great Britain the measures are coming to an end, that Sweden has come through the crisis without this quailry and sekkierery of its own people, dear colleague Wöginger? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly! That's right! With the worm, isn't it?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Faith You really think people don't know that the Czechs are just putting up with their plans for vaccination? This is epidemiological special waste, which ends up at the old load ponie, my dear ladies and gentlemen, and people get it! If you don't believe me, then I'm allowed to quote the news station NTV – I hope it's good enough, I hope it's not a swirling station in your fact check: “The Omikron wave is huge, but amazingly harmless. Spain, Great Britain, Denmark and Switzerland already want to treat the virus like a flu.” And it's getting even more interesting for you: The virological gallion figures on your part, the men's Fauci and Drosten, are already falling in your back. You're going in a similar direction to those you've insulted for years. They're telling you: The pandemic is ending, and at the end it will be like a flu. What does that mean by evidence? – The virus is becoming more and more harmless, the vaccination is becoming more and more ineffective, and you come right at that time with the proposal to introduce a vaccination in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, you have to come first, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, you have to come up with this: While everyone else does not take the measures, starting with 18-year-olds, you want to drive them all into the needle until the great-grandoma. It's really a piece of madness that you're getting out of here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to address the Members of the individual clubs: Dear Members of the Greens, Mrs Maurer, you will never lose a word again – what does a word mean?, a syllable! – in the context of data protection; Game about for the Greens in this context! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the future, refrain from any criticism of an individual target of judicial order in the fight against individual criminals or against organized crime if you give your consent to a Rasterfachung today, where millions of healthy people get to see the police and the health authorities without any accusations! I'm not talking about your position on genetic engineering at all, even there your credibility has disintegrated. Some of the Greens will still have an elementary experience when they will see that they are, in truth, enemies of freedom and friends of totalitarianism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like to give you another thought to whether it is really a good argument to say: The government has confounded everything in Corona management, it has failed where one can only fail, and that is why we are now supporting the failures in their greatest failure, namely in the introduction of the vaccination obligation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is that argument? I don't have a good feeling, but it fits into the line of your red thinker in Vienna, who now wants to take the unvaccinated one away from the workplace. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the new line of social democracy: Job destruction and destruction instead of protecting workers in that country. People should know that! To the address of NEOS: Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, in your programme it is so beautiful: “In doubt for freedom” – wonderfully formulated! Yes, do you have any doubts at all? Do you have no doubt at all about all that is being brought about? I can't believe that. What I can believe is that you're ready to sacrifice the freedom to please the powerful. I can believe that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger holds her hands in front of her face and shakes her head.]] You can do that, too, Mrs. Meinl-Risinger. At the same time, however, to claim to be a party chairman of a liberal party, that is no longer possible. That's not going to work out anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Read Sir Karl Popper about “The Open Society and Their Enemies”! I think it would be a bright reading for you. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Exactly...!]] And as far as the EIA's representatives are concerned: Perhaps you will think again about whether it really is the adequate interpretation of Christian charity, if you drive millions of people into despair, if you put them in worry and fear, if you want to criminalize them or make them citizens of second class, just because a few from your leadership level want to continue dancing around the Golden Calb out of control, money and power. [[Abg. Wöginger: You can't judge that because you don't have it!]] Think about it in the remaining time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I fear that all of this will be of no use, I fear that you will have the majority in this vote today. [[Abg. Steinacker: Democracy must not be feared!]] But this “success” – under quotation marks – will not make you happy, I tell you, simply because genuine satisfaction and happiness can never be built on the suffering and insecurity of millions of people! This shows you a look at the history books, and that will be To feel yourself in your own body, I already prophesy to you today. [[Call the ÖVP: What's that supposed to mean?]] We liberals remain in the minority today, but only here, because outside with the people who are now dissatisfied with your measures, we have the majority for a long time, and this majority becomes bigger daily. [[Abg. Wöginger: The Hitler spoke the same way, too, earlier!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And that's what I'm telling you: With these people – this is a promise from me from this point on – we will definitely put the vaccination obligation to the tip, using your own bureaucracy – you will still be surprised! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] We will bring them down, with appeals to the courts in all instances, and not only in Austria, and we will bring them down, above all, by democratic elections. [[Abg. Steinacker: This is a democracy! That's the rule of law!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: “fall down ”?- Oh, my God!]] – Yes, you will not escape from your just punishment as a yes-sacker tomorrow, you will not succeed in moral, legal, or political, and one you can believe me: Unlike you, I maintain my promises – by the way, that I will remain unvaccinated, of course, even if you, like millions of Austrians, want to force me to do so. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e18921	Mr Sigrid Maurer. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e18942	Mr President. Dear members of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, dear spectators! We are actually meeting here today, I believe, at a rather extraordinary item on the agenda. Since March 2020, the Corona Pandemic has constantly faced us with new challenges, including every individual and every one of us here in the High House, but, of course, every individual, every individual who lives here in Austria. She has put us on a hard test with the many restrictions associated with her. Central to the management of this pandemic were and are prudent and careful action, but above all one: social cohesion. Since December 2020, there have been vaccines against the corona virus. They've now been vaccinated billion times, there's a lot of studies on it, we know they're safe, and we know they're working. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] These vaccines protect our health and they protect our fellow human beings, they ensure that we have milder processes, that we are less contagious that fewer people come to the hospital, fewer people land on intensive care stations, fewer people die of this virus. Whoever here in this House denies the effect of vaccination cannot do so without bad thought. I would like to say at this point, Mr Klubobmann Kickl – you asked who said the truth here –: It certainly wasn't you! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That you are also proud and point out that in 2020 you called upon people not to be vaccinated and proud to have stopped people from protecting themselves and their fellow human beings, that is – last-class! [[Call the FPÖ:Don't be careful!]] [[Abg. Wookers: Last-class!]] It's inconceivable! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ: You should... activate the house ban again!]] This your policy is also a reason for the low vaccination rate we still have, and your behavior is absolutely cynical towards all people who have died of this virus, and towards all the relatives of these people. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yeah, we're there now, aren't we?]] Shame! [[Prolonged condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] We are gathered here today in the High House to take the way out of this pandemic to return to our usual life, a life without the restrictions that have accompanied us for almost two years, without lockdowns, without the psychological consequences it has for young people and the children, if they cannot go to school, into kindergarten. We want to go back to our normal life without restricting our freedom. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Well, then please step back, then we have a normal life again!]] The imprisonment we are going to adopt today with a very large majority of parliamentarians is the way out of this pandemic. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Two years ago, no one would have thought that we would ever have to deal with this disease, which is now keeping us on track for half a quarter of a year. I remember the alpha wave. We thought it was bad – then Delta came. One compares these waves with one another as regards the number of dead, the number of hospitalizations, the people in intensive care stations, and therefore also the staff in these intensive care stations. We didn't know! Now came the omicron variant, even of this we didn't know anything two years ago. [[Abg. Martin Graf: What do you know now?]] Today we face this challenge once again and dare this determined step towards the introduction of a vaccination obligation so that we can return to our usual life. We have taken this decision because we need to increase the vaccination rate so that we can live again normally. With the vaccination we protect ourselves, we protect our fellow human beings, and we ensure that we do not need any more lockdowns. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steer:... Propaganda...!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Very weak speech! Very weak!]] We have certainly not made it easy for all of us today to agree to this vaccination obligation. Yes, it is quite right, none of us wanted to have a vaccination obligation, we were convinced that we could do the same to convince the people that they have to be vaccinated. [[Abg. Steger: You excluded them!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Then she just doesn't!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:No one has the intention to build a wall!]] Unfortunately, there is a mobilising force that does not look at the interest and health of the people in Austria, but only at the political level. [[Abg. Kickl: Keep going! People are running away from you in crowds!]] In November, we decided to introduce this vaccination obligation, we took a lot of time to conduct very intensive discussions, with physicians, with constitutional judges; we developed a draft assessment together with social democracy and NEOS, and, I believe, a very good one. Many opinions have been received and received – I would also like to thank you very much for this participation. At the end of the review, we have now made many changes, and we have looked at exactly what has been reported back, and we have adapted the law once again. At this point I would like to expressly to the party leader Pamela Rendi-Wagner and to the party leader Beate Meinl-Reisinger, of course also with the coalition partner ÖVP, thank you for the fact that this really constructive collaboration was possible and worked so well. At this point I would also like to extend this thanks to the employees in the background – for example, on the sides of the NEOS Alex Harrer, Armin Hübner, on the sides of the SPÖ Joachim Preiss and Gabi Kotzegger, and it was of course on the ministerial side of the Federal Chancellery, the Constitutional Service, but, of course, in the Ministry of Health, Michael Fürmann, the team and the section that really made the great challenge of producing a clean, round legislative text with Bravour. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am the first speaker on this draft law and therefore I would like to explain a few key points. What have we done or what will we do? – The Vaccination Act will enter into force at the beginning of February. A letter will then be sent to all the households in which we will once again inform them of what this means. Includes all persons aged 18 and over. The exception are pregnant, except for those who are healed for half a year after a positive PCR test, and people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. ==References== It will then be the case that normal controls, such as traffic controls or checks to comply with the corona measures, can also be asked by the police of vaccination status. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] If it cannot be provided on-site, an announcement shall be made to the administrative authority of the head office. [[Abg. Kickl: Beautiful new world!]] Then you have two weeks to either supply the vaccination status or provide an exception. [[Abg. Kickl: But only with a selective doctor!]] If that fails, it will be punished. The aim of this vaccination obligation is to increase the vaccination rate massively, and I am confident that we can succeed. [[Abg. Worm: Because?]] The vaccination is the way out of this pandemic, the way back into freedom and into a life without restrictions. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The aim is not to punish, but as many as possible to convince all people to be vaccinated; for we know that we can cope with the pandemic. The vaccination is also a victory of science against the denial of facts and empiricals. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Vaccines are also a solidarity act. Be solid, dear Seers and Seers! I am pleased that we can decide on this today after such a large joint act of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19262	To an actual correction, Mag. Jörg Leichtfriedzu word reported. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19289	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl – I would almost say – said that the FPÖ is the only party that claims the truth in this pandemic and proclaims the most truth. I can quote Mrs Belakovich, who says that in hospitals there are more people with vaccination than people who are suffering from Covid. I have to tell you: So many untruths, so many swirls, from horse worms to vitamin preparations to be taken, have not come from any other party. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Just keep going!]] That is why this statement is completely incorrect!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19336	I should like to ask the club members in the parliamentary clubs to re-examine the issue of actual correction together with the mandates so that the Rules of Procedure can be remedied. Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerhard Kaniak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19363	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! Yes, the entire crisis management of the current Federal Government is a series of failures, misevaluations, false promises and also constitutional breaks. It is only the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the last one and a half years to find countless regulations and laws of this Federal Government under the guise of crisis management, which were not constitutional. Today, the Imprisonment Act is to be passed here, another law that is clearly unconstitutional from our point of view. In a sense, the Imprisonment Act is the culmination of an escalation course that the Federal Government has taken in crisis management. This has made sure that we are confronted with the most serious interventions in the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens so far; it has ensured that more than 400,000 negative opinions and approvals have been received in the Second Republic once a week in order to demonstrate against this insanity of the Federal Government; and it has ensured that tens of thousands of people in Austria are going to the streets every week in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But how does the Federal Government react to these concerns and fears of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen? – By setting up a ban mile around Parliament so that one simply does not come into contact with critical citizens – yes, it is – by, of course, starting from this legislative project in no way, but no, it is also intensified in individual areas: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] It makes it difficult for people to claim exceptions, it makes it difficult for people to object to the administrative procedure, they remove a deterioration ban in the context of the opposition and a few additional regulatory powers for the Minister of State. I'm really scared! The Federal Government calls this law so harmlessly vaccination law. In reality, it is a law of vaccination for the Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He can decide by himself who has to be vaccinated as often as he has to, who can do with who. In the final effect, I have almost the impression that, within the framework of this regulation empowerment, the whole right is no longer the right of the people and the legislation is no longer to be taken from Parliament, but only from various ministries. It really can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But how did the law of vaccination come to be? – Well, there was this ominous meeting on 29 and 30. November last year, in which the government was once again confronted with the untimely activity in view of the upcoming delta wave in autumn. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] One has then typically Austrian, very pragmatic, simply agreed to break two promises, namely the promise that there will be no more general lockdown, and the promise that there will be no general vaccination. – This has been the crisis management of the Federal Government last autumn, and we are all allowed to do away with the consequences. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What should be the aim of this ominous vaccination obligation introduced here by the Federal Government? The law contains: to prevent the spread of Sars-Cov-2 and to protect against overload of health care. – Well, all the experts now agree that the existing vaccines do not offer sterile immunity, that it is not possible with them – as was the case with other vaccinations, in the case of measles, mumps, rubella and co – to eliminate this virus or to significantly influence the epidemic spread. That is, this goal of inhibiting the epidemic cannot be reached with the existing vaccines from home and therefore not with a vaccination obligation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It remains the argument of protecting health care from overload. – Yes, it has been shown by the manufacturers in the studies that while there is a certain degree of protection against serious disease events against the original variants and also limited against the delta variant. However, the study situation has shown that this protection decreases quite rapidly, that it is much weaker in the omicron variant and is much faster, and that multiple boosting no longer has the effect as hoped. That is why the Israelis have broken down the fourth trick and do not force it any further. However, with us we want to define the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh vaccination by law. – Mr Federal Minister, this is totally reluctant! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Most importantly, Omikron is actually a big game changer, because this new virus variant is significantly more contagious, but we now know both from our own numbers and from countries, where the Omikron wave is already outraged, that first this wave goes up and down completely independently of the rate of vaccination of the respective population within six weeks, and second, that the hospitalization rates are at a maximum of one quarter of those at delta times. We know that the intensive medical coating is at a maximum of one fifth of that at delta times. – Yes, where is the need for you to anchor additional restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights and immediate vaccination? This cannot be argued at all, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I do not want to continue to address the legal shortcomings of this planned COVID-19 Imprisonment Act. I would just like to ask a very pragmatic question in the room: How do you actually want to implement this law? They want it to enter into force soon, and you have so severely restricted the derogations that any non-vaccination in Austria, who wants to have an exception test in care for his health, must go to the official doctor or epidemic doctor, apart from a few cancers in hospital treatment. Mr Federal Minister, how is it supposed to be practically feasible for over 1.3 million Austrians – or do you leave it half if only half of them claim appropriate health reasons – to have an appointment with the official's doctor within the next two months? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] How are these to be introduced to the District Headquarters as non-vaccinated and perhaps non-healed at all? In most cases there is also a 2G regime! How are these people supposed to come to their liberation test at all? They set out an exception that is not at all accessible to most of the population, because people do not even come to the official's office and to an appointment to make their health complaints. It's not practical at all! [[Abg. Steinacker: If you don't want to understand a law!]] So this is a pseudo-exception that you can create, and at the same time there are 15 years of age. But with the so-called phase two, the threat of punishment. They call the whole, the phase two, the control phase. The police and the police union have already made a clear statement: You do not want to carry out these checks on your behalf because they are not responsible for the horror of the population, but that is a task of the health authority. I call it an arbitrary phase, because at this stage you will arbitrarily punish those who are unpleasant to you; they will also punish you in the context of checks under the COVID-19 Imprisonment Act. There will be no fair, equivalent and non-discriminatory punishment at all at this stage. And then there is the ominous phase three in the room: the phase three in which you want to use the grid arrest, in which you want to introduce the automated punishment of the population, and in which – and you know that from the assessment procedure and the opinions of the administrative judges – you will threaten an absolute overload of the authorities and the administrative courts, so that you can never implement this phase de facto at all. [[Abg. Deimek: Then DDR 2.0! ... Communists in the government!]] Mr Federal Minister, I have said it before: Go inside! There are so many good reasons why we do not need this law now. There are so many measures that you have not yet implemented in the past: the expansion of the capacities, the creation of early treatment options also in the settled area, ensuring that everyone who is sick at home is actually cared for directly in the home, so that you get the hospitalization rates under control and there is no overload. You have neglected all this and still not done it – now you have the opportunity to: Withdraw this bill! Strengthen the alternative measures, then we don't need any more vaccination! Also, make sure that the total immunity in the population is actually raised at all, because if you specify a 90 percent vaccination rate as a target, you first have to determine how high the basic immunity in the population is even before you come with legal compulsion and want to force people to immunise! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19479	Mr Alois Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19504	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I need to make a real correction. Mr Kickl said in his speech: “The virus is becoming more and more harmless, the vaccination is becoming more and more ineffective.” – That’s wrong! The right thing is: The vaccination also works excellent against omicron. [[Lively cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: My God, that is...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Data from the United Kingdom say: 94 percent protection against hospitalization to Booster. [[Abg. Cashier: (hand-lifting) Mr President! Norbert!]] Ladies and gentlemen Kickl, don't worry about the Austrian population! It would be necessary to point out, factually and correctly, that the vaccination is good for the Austrians and is crucial for the health of the people in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ: Don't be ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: This is a disappearance of speaking time!]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19614	For business treatment: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19641	Mr President. Now, in reality, we have the second instance of an abuse of the actual correction by a colleague from the Socialist Group – now with Mr Stöger even more evident than with Mr Leichtfried! I don't know what the motive is, maybe it's about filibustering so that your party-obsessed Pamela Rendi-Wagner can only speak after 3:00 p.m. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Everything else is not understandable to me. I would ask you, Mr President, to do something about this abuse of the instrument of actual correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19685	For business treatment: Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19709	Mr President. As far as Mr Kassager's remarks are concerned, I can say that there seems to be a great deal of nervousness in the ranks of the liberals, it would not be necessary to organize such a theatre here as you have done now. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Now another affected person is talking, is it going deeper?]] [[Abg. Martin Graf:... on your own!]] I can only say: Social democracy is perfectly capable of carrying out actual corrections, and the President is also able to conduct this meeting without your approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19777	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz has now referred to an actual correction. . You know the rules of procedure, I would like to pay particular attention to them. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Kaniak said that the Federal Government had set up a ban mile around Parliament. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The Bannmile is provided for in the law, namely in § 7 of the Convention Law 1953 “While the National Council, the Federal Council, the Federal Assembly or a Landday is assembled, no assembly under the open sky is allowed to take place within 300 metres of its seats. ” — Satisfaction? [[call to the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19866	Mrs. Pamela Rendi-Wagner would now be speaking. You have planned a speaking time of 10 minutes, but I would have to interrupt your speech after about 1 to 2 minutes – I can therefore ask you if you would like to speak after the short debate. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner nodds.]] - That's the case. I am therefore interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19904	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interrupted session again. [[15:00:47]] Short debate: ‘No aspiration in intramuscular injection with respect to RKI recommendations’
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19934	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection with the order number 8500/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the authors is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Peter Worms to make a request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Worm, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e19971	Mr President. Appreciate government members, chancellors and vice chancellors! Mrs Rendi-Wagner, I hope you will forgive me for this interruption. But I think it's a good thing about the subject. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] If the Federal Chancellor shows up again: I wanted to congratulate him on his recovery. He's had corona three times last week. The Federal Chancellor then announced from home office – and that was the decisive thing: he was vaccinated three times, only vaccinated in his environment – stood in front of the computer and said: The vaccination works, I'm the best example. – That was an original quote of the Federal Chancellor. I might liken it to someone who jumps out of the second floor, breaks both legs and claims in the hospital: I can fly! – I would like to compare it in some way. It is not shocking for me now that the Federal Chancellor makes such a statement, but it is rather shocking for me that millions obviously believe that the Federal Chancellor can fly. I conclude by listening to the discussions now and by completely ignoring all the facts that are now obvious. Maybe someone watched the servus TV yesterday and saw the highly informative report on the vaccine damage. Here I might want to make a few things clear to Austria again: I find this evasion of people in Austria who have suffered from a vaccine very worrying, because it is people who are almost pushing you to this vaccination that you have convinced. They have had good consciences to make this vaccination, then they have had massive difficulties, and that is why you should deal with these people very respectfully. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's clear is: There are now 100 times more reports of adverse reactions with this vaccination than with all other vaccinations so far. Whatever's clear – and I'm always talking about Austria: There are more than 200 deaths associated with this vaccination. These are all not inventions – you can look at everything yourself – but these are the official Ages numbers. In the meantime, there are also international indications – and this is quite dramatic, but one cannot verify yet – that, in a timely context with vaccination, especially with the third vaccination, with the boosting, also the death rate increases. This is still being studied, but is evident in many countries. I said two things in the Health Committee: First of all, we should be able in Austria to actively track, handle and treat these vaccine damage – and not passively, as it is happening at present. Passively, someone has to make an action. Active would be called, one really looks at the doctors: What's going on there? That is, the dark number is accordingly large. What we have criticized from the beginning as a liberal – and I have not heard a word about that today – is that pharmaceutical companies do not assume any liability for vaccination damage. If you all make yourself here and say: The vaccination works, the vaccination is safe!, then I ask you: Then why do the pharmaceutical companies not assume any liability? This is a contradiction in itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to clarify the position of the liberals: We have always said that there must be the freedom to decide individually, to discuss with his doctor: Does the vaccination make sense or not? We never told anyone not to be vaccinated. To say that is simply a lie, I say it again. We have always said that voluntaryness must remain. We have never disputed that there is Corona, but we have always pointed out that Corona is not the plague and not the cholera. If today your so-called top virologists now suddenly present this as a flu, I can remind you of what happened here in the spring of 2020 to echo from you when we also compared it to a heavy flu wave. What's been up to now? – Again: Until Delta was clear, the vaccination does not protect against infection, the vaccination does not protect against passing on the virus, and the vaccination does not protect from the hospital. That was so far. Omikron is perfectly clear: Now the cards are completely remixed, the vaccination does not work. This, by the way, has been done in the same way as your own experts, the party experts, in the health committee, as I am saying on the explanation for the other Members. So maybe you shouldn't mention that in case of an actual correction, or you'll lead yourself ad absurdum. In Omikron, according to what the RKI's first figures also show, it is clear that double and triple vaccines are even disproportionately severe in omicron. If you ask around the company in the circle of acquaintances and relatives, you will experience it yourself – and the Austrians get it – that suddenly those who have been vaccinated two and three times have omikron. That's nothing new. The Federal Chancellor is the best example. What is forgotten at all is the question of the genes. I would like to point out once again. There are very few studies on this, unfortunately, even in Austria far too few God. Switzerland has a status of twelve months with genes, we still have six months, Germany obviously has three months soon. The scientific context in these three German-speaking countries must therefore also be explained to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The health system is overloaded: I can remember that there was a hot discussion about your famous level plan, Minister, from one to five. At present, the occupations at the Level One Hospital and the level five measures – so much to your credibility, to your evidence-based policy and to everything you always tell people outside. That doesn't fit in in the back and in the front. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There may be some who like the development of the last two years in Austria, there are corona junkies that obviously like this. But I already believe that the majority of the population – no matter how you stand at Corona, whether you are pro or contra-vaccination – has experienced a dramatic breakdown in our state, a loss of credibility of all bodies. This is a very dramatic development, and I can only point out this once again: We need to end this as soon as possible. I'm already seeing collateral damage. I am not talking about the EUR 100 billion, which we all have to pay, which will have to be paid out to ordinary citizens in particular. That goes up to the various lockdowns and other things. For vaccination status: If you go somewhere today, buy yourself a shirt, and then control the police, you'll have to carry a whole document girl. Is that where you want to go? People used to laugh at China. We now have social conditions like in China: If you behave well, you get points; it's similar now. This can, please, be nice – no matter if you are vaccinated or unvaccinated – not where we want to go in Austria! This division of society has fueled you in the last two years – I would like to remind you once again of all the statements that have fallen there – not the unvaccinated have fired them. I think a sentence should be important to all of us, and that's difficult enough: We should be able to forgive. But you should not forget what happened. I'm saying that very consciously. You have crossed several red lines, you have done a lot of damage to the general population. [[Abg. Hear: We or you? You did the damage, you!]] Forgiveness is good, but we should not forget how far this government has gone with its aid agents from SPÖ and NEOS over the last two years. How far you have gone and how thin this layer is, we should not forget that. I'm sorry, but it's gonna be good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing we've seen, too, and that's what I'm saying a little provocative now: I believe in coincidences. It is certainly a coincidence that the billionaires of this earth have doubled their assets in the last two years. I'm sure that's a coincidence. If I don't believe in coincidences, I'd have to think differently, but I think I'm very sure of coincidences, I'm just telling you. The second story we have also learned: It is said again and again that a high female rate in a government – we have the highest female rate we ever had – first of all ensures that a good policy is made, and second, that a human policy is made. Both theses, I think, have now been clearly disproved with this women's rate in this government. I see neither a more human policy nor a better policy through a high rate of women, and this context must be explained to me first. I am convinced that we will overcome all of this at the end of the day. I am convinced that the truth and the good will prevail. This division in society that you will implement today with this vaccination law - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20039	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20054	Yes. This division, which you have implemented with this Vaccination Act here in Austria, is hopefully going to be – I am convinced of which – soon to find an end that we will return to a real normality without this compulsion on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20086	The Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, now without a mask!]] In the short debate or in response to the question raised by Mr Wurm, on ‘Residence of aspiration in intramuscular injection’, I would like to say: To publish evidence-based recommendations is a particular concern to me as a Minister of Health, but also as a doctor. I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again that all evidence is that the Covid-19 vaccination – all the preparations available in Austria – is safe. I would like to comment on the answer to the question in question: What Aspiration is in intramuscular injection? – One sets the needle and controls the location with the aspiration. However, this is not necessary, according to the recommendations of the Robert Koch Institute and also after recommendations of the Austrian National Imprisonment at the usual places, i.e. usually in the shoulder muscle, because in the area of these bodies, for example in the shoulder muscle, no vessels, no nerve cords run large enough. It is therefore not possible to inject an injection into the vessel. There are neither reports nor injuries nor any link to coagulation disorders in this method of administration. I rely very much on the staff in the vaccination streets, but also on the ordinations that the vaccinations give correctly according to the recommendations of my resort. It is precisely this healthcare staff that has done a really superhuman thing in the pandemic and does not deserve to be interested in such insecuritys. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Covid-19 vaccine is safe. We need a high rate of vaccination to control the spread of the virus. The claim of injuries caused by vaccinations and vaccinations is more likely to help to insure the population and further divide society. But we need cohesion in this exceptional situation of the pandemic and a reflection on scientific recommendations. The spread of fakenews is absolutely dangerous, and I appeal to every citizen and every citizen to consult reliable sources and question vaccination myths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20165	From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20186	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The youth of Austria has chosen the youth word 2021, and the word crings have come out – C, R, I, N, G, E – that is, translated such a thing as embarrassing and strange. Do you know what's going on in my mind when I speak this word? crings reading? – This word comes to my mind immediately when I think of the FPÖ's contributions to the fight against pandemic. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] I am also a little surprised at this short debate. Member of the Worm and the FPÖ request a short debate on the following topic – I read it: ‘No aspiration in intramuscular injection with respect to RKI recommendations’. I wonder, What does a technical discussion have to do with a short debate? – Nothing at all, but I don't wonder. I would like to discuss with colleagues Worm, but I would suggest to him that he come to me, I immunize him and then explain to him what aspiration means – then we would have two flies on one stroke. [[In the case of ÖVP and Greens, MEPs of the NEOS and the Agg. Move it.]] In these few minutes, I would rather deal with things that really interest me and concern me, and not things that have lost nothing in a short debate, for example with human rights. There is a lot of human rights – we hear it all the time – and there is a human right to believe high-grade nonsense and also to brutalize this nonsense, but there is no human right to recommend life-threatening therapies to other people or to take away unvaccinated other people's urgently needed hospital beds because one is unable to understand the concept of vaccination. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Stefan]] Vaccination is training for the immune system. Some hard vaccines are right: Half-truths, inventions, exaggerations. There is a saying that always comes to my mind: Smell and twist, there's always something going on! The pandemic forces us to throw lovable assurances overboard. The virus changes quickly, much too fast for us, and even epidemiologists and virologists – the real experts – are constantly learning to do so, things are constantly in the river. This requires us a lot and also causes fears, and I really have a lot of understanding for the fears of the people. But I always repeat: What is the effect of vaccination and why are we so for that? – It is about avoiding the burden of disease in the population in the long term, so that we do not constantly stumble from Lockdown to Lockdown, and it is intended to avoid serious incidents of Covid and also deaths. We now have 14 000 Covid deaths, and that is very sad. The best means against this pandemic are science, self-responsibility and also the home mind. All three may and must be used, but in the public debate, the house mind and science are presented as competitors, and they are simply not comparable. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Firewinner]] What's the house mind? – Just allow me to explain this: This is traditional knowledge, passed on from generation to generation, and is important in many areas, and if I have to decide quickly, I can do nothing but rely on it. In a pandemic that lasts for years, however, I can't solve much with the mind of the house. And what is scientific logic? – This is based on theses and reviews – listen carefully! – it is a continuous process that changes and creates opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Science always implies new insights. When the virus changes, the framework conditions also change. One must clearly say that science deals with the question of the laws of nature and with the understanding of the contexts. Science often turns out to be contradictions, but science does not lie. This is often not easy, very complicated and laborious. But I expect this effort from many and above all from Members of this House. Picking out a study of April 2020 and quoting a sentence from it does not help us today, in January 2022. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The question raised today and also after the pandemic is: How does one reach people who have lost faith in science? – The magic word for me and for so many others is education. You have to start at school. Again: The vaccination against Covid is and remains the only widely applicable way to reduce and reduce the burden of disease and also the hospital load. There is clear evidence that people who have already received the third vaccination benefit in particular. And it continues to apply: There are far higher risks to a disease than the vaccination. So please: Vaccinate instead of rubbing and evaporating! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20285	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20307	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm a little more positive. Mr. Worm, thank you for increasingly approaching the issue of vaccination positively. It is noted that the debates have a certain effect and that you are increasingly convinced of the effectiveness of the vaccinations. [[Abg. Hauser: Did he say that? ...!]] You have now become increasingly critical of this subject, and the only doubt that remains after your research is now whether the doctors will do it properly, if they can do so. You're sort of insecure because you've been researched on the Internet and you've come to believe that there's been a discussion in a forum about it. Two or three suggestions: One could briefly clarify this with the family doctor, that would be a variant. The second question, of course, is whether we need to discuss everything we are interested in here in Parliament by means of a parliamentary question and to inform the Minister of Health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, as well as by Mr Gabriela Schwarz and Mr Schallmeiner.]] I am not always fully of his opinion, as it were, but he should actually take care of other things. So, of course, it is not possible for us to put in any question that appears somewhere on the Internet as a request. Next I watch some war film on TV in the evening and ask Mrs. Tanner: Why do we not have submarines in Austria? [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the SPÖ, congratulation with representatives of the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] That's not the way it is. There are some things you might as well search for yourself. I would like to express it positively: If it was really just an interest, it's good, then you can talk about it when it's trying to panic, then of course it's not fair, because you don't do it; to tell you that the doctors don't know how to immunize, that doesn't have to be. I don't want to go into it any further. If you had just made the effort and briefly Googleed: For example, there is the statement of the Stiko in Germany, based on the recommendations of the Robert Koch Institute, which says: “Why did the stiko recommend giving up aspiration when injecting vaccines?” – That’s exactly what interests you. You can find that when you enter it on the Internet. That's what you – I swear to you, it's classic, you just need to enter it on Google – within 30 seconds the answer is that everything has been answered, because you don't have to ask questions, because you don't have to discuss them forever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] So it's relatively fast. In short: What does the Internet say about Stiko in Germany? – It’s about the whole thing working pain-free. It has been said that there should be people internationally who have been concerned about this and who have asked themselves: Can't you make the vaccinations even better, for example? How can one further develop the whole evidence-based? You've come up with it: “The blood vessels at the body sites recommended for injection of vaccines [...] and within reach of the needle are too small to allow accidental intravenous administration. Reports of injuries of patients due to neglected aspiration are not available.” – So thank you again for the attempt. If we make it positive: I appreciate your development curve from the vaccine critic to the vaccine advocate. Now you're just afraid of the syringes, we'll get one another. Thank you for the exciting debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20362	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20384	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Kucher, I hope that the speech and your address that we are now replacing parliamentary requests with Google searches is not some vaccine damage that has arisen with you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope you didn't mean what you said now. Previously, Mr Maurer also gave some interesting things of his own and said that the vaccination of the victory march of science against the virus has been – unfortunately, Mr Maurer is no longer in the room again, at least I do not see them – but I rather believe that it is a robbery of the pharmaceutical companies against the money bags of taxpayers and against their fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're discussing here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I would like to address very briefly the questions to the Federal Minister, who have always been unanswered – so many questionable debates can not be held in this House at all that there is somehow a denominator – and I would also like to return to what the Federal Minister said in the main committee today in the morning. I would say that the Federal Minister has already become the victim of his own propaganda. Although it is clear that the vaccination at Omikron is just as good as no longer possible, you now want to order us a vaccination duty, ladies and gentlemen, dear Federal Government. In other countries it has already been understood that this is not the solution. I don't know why this is still so high on us. They speak of the importance of immunization against omicron and lead the vaccination into the meeting. As I said, there are studies that now claim to be the opposite. Immunization against Omikron will not succeed in you with the vaccination, and if you do not believe it and if you say that I am a swurbler, then talk to Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is not least sick of Omikron himself a few days ago, although he has already been vaccinated three times and perhaps Even at night lights, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] That is why we are holding this debate, and that is why we have the freedom to say that people in this country cannot order this non-functioning weapon under destruction of all fundamental and freedom rights. That is not the case, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing you haven't answered today: There are now 900 000 people who are either healed or have twice vaccinated by 1. You will then also be declared second-class citizens of February. So I'm excited about how you want to explain this and how you want to justify it, that these people who are healthy, too, will have to abandon essential citizens' rights in the future. Mr. Federal Minister, all this is going to be done in the back and in the front. I would simply like to explain the insanity of your actions to you on the basis of an example, namely the example of the time spent in the gastronomy. You have said today that you want to keep the blocking hour, and you have also talked about night and snow gastronomy. I do not know exactly what this should be; I hope that these are not the locals of Mr Ho when it comes to night and snow places, but I think you will take a look at the locals that are open in the evening. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schalmeiner and Mr Hörl]] Why Close You these locals? - It's not understandable. You, I have just explained, have already made a large part of the Austrian population into second-class citizens, you have locked up these citizens, who are no longer allowed to go to the inn and in the restaurants. So why keep it? You're still stuck at this 22-hour hour? Mr Federal Minister, I do not think your argument goes back and forth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point – and I think you should not be afraid of the international comparison either: If I look at which countries have so far introduced the vaccination obligation, then the Vatican notices me, then Ecuador notices me and then Tajikistan notices me. And if I look at what democratic systems these countries have, I honestly do not want Austria to be in this series. This too is something where you need to look at the outside effect, where you need to know whether you want to belong to it at all and whether you really act adequately. I say: No, no, no, [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing with which this Federal Government is distinguished – by the way, respect for the demonstrators who stand outside at Josefsplatz and show their face, who have left their comfort zone, in order to tell you that you are on the way to the wood – is the only one with which this Federal Government is characterized is its heartlessness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reimon]] I would like to give you another example that touched me very much yesterday, which is the example of a man, far more than 80, who was found yesterday in perfect despair in front of the hospital in Baden. This gentleman, in fact against his conviction, has gone three times immunized to be able to visit his sick wife in the hospital because she is there regularly. He also had a PCR test made yesterday for the visit to the Baden Hospital and was then rejected there. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this old man has been rejected there, he has not been able to visit his seriously ill wife. Why? – Because the Landeskliniken-Holding in Lower Austria has determined that there is now only a visit once a week for half an hour. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the way you deal with the build-up generation, that's the way you deal with old people, that's the way you trample around on the psyche of these people. I'll tell you about this speaker's chair from one thing: For this, you can be ashamed of all, and all those who are involved today, in the ground and the ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20498	Reported to word - - For business treatment? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20527	Mr President. We agreed at the President's meeting that we do not comment on Members' absences today. At the beginning of the session you yourself pointed out that we are loosened here today due to the omicron variant and the increased infection and risk. Mr Hafenecker has now pointed out in his speech that our club wife Sigi Maurer is not on the square. I also expect the FPÖ to comply with agreements we meet at the presidential meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20563	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20584	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Minister, on the other hand, so to speak! [[turning to those on the right side of the government bank]] I've been wondering all day, all the time since this desire was on my table: How'd it get there? – In the meantime, I think a great light has risen. This day the FPÖ was sitting together, thinking about it and thinking: What are we doing, so that we can have colleagues Wurm and colleagues at Hafenecker speak today as much as possible? What are we gonna do? What are we supposed to do? – Ah, we just got an answer from the ministry. Let's just pretend that this request would not be answered cleanly, and let's just make a request that we make an inquiry! [[Abg. Hafenecker: Unlike...!]] How do I get this idea? – Mr Wurm turns out here and talks about everything possible, but he does not talk about the request he has made. He is not talking about this desire, but he is talking about security or the possible uncertainty of the current Covid vaccination. [[Abg. Worm:... I spoke!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brückl]] But, okay, let's take a look at what Mr Worm has just done! He says yes, or he puts a little bit in the room: The Covid vaccination does not work, it is unsafe, there are side effects. - Yes, it is. There can be side effects with each vaccination, which has never been disputed by anyone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] But: What are the facts? We should talk about these! – Last year, we have vaccinated about 16.4 million vaccines in Austria. We currently have 367 applications under the Vaccination Act in Austria at the turn of year – applications, please! This does not mean that it has been approved and that it has been decided that there really is vaccination damage, but there are 367 applications under the Vaccination Act at 16.4 million doses, or as Prof. Dr. Kollaritsch said, one application per 50,000 vaccinations. That's fact! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] This has nothing to do with having a bad vaccination or a dangerous vaccination. One of 50,000 – let's put this in relation! These are applications, these are non-discretional vaccinations. From my point of view, we should separate that. So what Mr Wurm has done out here is – as is the usual practice at the FPÖ – to get out of here, to do something like this: Well, there's something we've heard, there's something there! perhaps to mention a single case, perhaps from some study very, very selective to quote, certainly also to spread false information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] What do I mean by that? – Well, my colleague, Mr Belakovich, turned out here in March 2021 and made more than 2,000 vaccines throughout Europe, which appear in the statistics in the meantime: This has not been confirmed to this day that there were those then! However, the FPÖ's policy is in this context when it comes to Covid: Always a little there, a little there, or even here stand out and say: Until Delta it was clear that the vaccination reduces the risk! – Well, wait a minute, my dear colleague! Until Delta was really clear that the vaccination lowers the risk, with a 95 percent effectiveness, determined by the ages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brückl]] In the meantime, we also have laboratory data – I know, this is always doubted by the FPÖ colleagues – that the vaccination after boosting also helps with an effectiveness of 70 to 75 percent against severe processes at Omikron, as well as also against intensive procedures. This is always being pushed a little bit by the colleagues, and because you wanted to do this again today, you have held this desire where you are talking about God and the world, but not about what it is about in your desire. It's very clear what you're doing here. It is always in the final effect the usual beating of political change which the colleagues from the FPÖ want to do. You see yourself in the uproar. But quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen: This is not a constructive contribution to mastering a pandemic. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Hauser.]] This is not a constructive contribution to ensuring human life, ensuring that normality returns to this country. That would actually be the task that you too have as a constructive opposition, which you could be – in contrast to the colleagues from SPÖ and the NEOS who are quite constructive about their mission. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20696	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20717	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I would like to remind the television viewers once again that this short debate is interrupting the previous debate and, although some have mixed this up, it is not about the obligation to immunise, but, in fact, about a request from the FPÖ on how it is being vaccinated. I am also not quite sure whether the answer was understood in a professional way everywhere, because what the liberals are performing today is a staged dance. This does not benefit anyone except perhaps the survey data of the Freedom Party. Now one can be divided about the possibilities we get out of the pandemic, but what is being played here is not nice, because when Klubobmann Kickl turns out here and how the rumple style says: I don't take my vaccination, no, I don't take my vaccination!, yes, then that's a little bit – once carefully said – little adult. [[I would like to congratulate Mr Neos, Mr ÖVP and Mr Greens, as well as the members of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] With this request, it is tried to create uncertainty, it is always played with the fears of people who are concerned about vaccination. [[Abg. Hauser: The uncertainty is there, I don't need to startle it!]] More than 17 million Covid vaccines have been administered in Austria. Now really putting the numbers into a ratio: 17 million Covid vaccines, and you take out cases like today in the main committee when Collaborator Prince removed heart muscle inflammation. There are 186 cases where there is the presumption that there could be a connection with the vaccination. But that does not mean that there is actually a connection, but there is the presumption. [[Abg. Steger: There is a confirmation from two doctors!]] But that means: In one of 100,000 vaccinations, there is then such a presumption. You know, and with that, you play with these fears and with the resentments you play! [[It was in favour of NEOS and ÖVP, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] A major contribution to the fact that you can play with resentments is, of course, the cave bad data situation in our Republic. She is as bad under Minister Mückstein as she was under Snober and in the 70 years before, because the Ministry of Health was unfortunately 70 years wrung and nobody cared about it. If a pandemic comes back, then we're as badly prepared as we are for this. This is, of course, the responsibility you have. [[towards Federal Minister Mückstein]] We still don't know any exact numbers about the hospital beds, the EMS breaks down again and again, the contact tracking doesn't work, we still don't know what prediseases the people who come into the hospital with Covid. That the data situation is so bad, you answer, and you allow these people to play with the bad data and the fears of the people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Hafenecker pointed out how much money is apparently spent on vaccination. Yeah, so whoever was always at the front, yelling out loud that the tests must be free, was the Freedom Party. We spend four times as much money on testing as on vaccination. But that didn't do us anything in the pandemic. We test ten times as much as the Germans and have exactly the same pandemic course. This mass testing of symptomless has not brought us forward. There are many people who have earned gold noses; also enough pharmacists who belong to your electorate have earned good gold noses. We spent a quarter of it for vaccination. What does a day cost at the intensive care station? – Now you can argue about the effect of the vaccination – it would be better for us all to have the effect even better than it is – but intensive stays prevent it from proving. A day at the intensive care station costs at least 3 000 euros, a day! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] And if people are on the intensive care station due to Covid, they'll be there for two or three weeks. There is an asset for the treatment of these people who have refused the vaccination because you have played with their fears. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] What a game this is, you can see when you look at the Freedom Party a little more closely: People like Mr. Mölzer senior, like Mrs. Riess-Passer and like the former Minister of Health Hartinger-Klein or the former Secretary of Health Waneck, they generate for your party. They're publicly apologizing for the Herbert Kickl line. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] If you look at the Vienna Landtagsclub of the Freedoms, then the only unvaccinated person there is the overflower from the ÖVP! All the others are vaccinated. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and cheerfulness of representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I can only say: Think about it, contribute something! I also do not always have the same opinion as the Minister, quite often another, but one should not play with the fears of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20840	No one is reporting on this. The debate is over. [[15:39:55]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20862	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 6 to 8. Mrs. Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Here you are, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e20886	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a sensitive but important decision today. The question is whether the corona vaccination in Austria should be mandatory for all 18 years or not. We have to ask ourselves this question today because – and I cannot release the Federal Government from its responsibility – many things have gone wrong in the last two years because many things have been missed. Unfortunately, the vaccination rate is still far too low and it has not succeeded in moving enough people to immunise to prevent an overload of the hospitals and thus further lockdowns in future corona waves. That's a problem. We are already at a crucial point: Unfortunately, the mandatory vaccination against Corona, which we all did not wish for, has become necessary to close the vaccine that is still present in Austria. Only then, and I am convinced that we have a realistic chance of a life as we knew it before Corona. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do I mean by that? How do we define this: a life we knew before Corona? – I define this so that every person in Austria has the security that, if he or she needs medical care, he or she will also receive this care, he or she will have a guarantee that he or she will be in good medical care. However, if the hospitals are overburdened, as has unfortunately been the case over the last two years, then exactly this safety in Austria is at risk. The more people need to be treated at intensive care stations because of Corona, the more resources are missing in the treatment of other patients, those with heart attack or stroke, accident victims or oncological patients. It is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, although today you, from the FPÖ, are always claimed to be the opposite and became the opposite, the vaccination saves life. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] The vaccination saves life – one's own life and another's life. There's still a lot of people dying from Corona. They die on the one hand from the direct consequences of Covid, but they also die of the indirect consequences of the pandemic, because their operating dates are simply postponed, postponed for months, or diseases due to lack of precautions are too late, or we say, very late recognized and diagnosed. In the coming years, this will still require a great many deaths - too early. Too many people also die of the indirect consequences, because acute heart attacks – I have already said – cannot be supplied intensively in time for strokes and the like. This must never be taken away, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Protection of health, protection of life must always be the top priority. Vaccination is about protecting not only oneself but also others. Above all, it is about protecting those who cannot protect themselves by this vaccination, and that is up to 10 percent of the population. The chance of an almost normal life, as we knew before, also means: no more restrictions of freedom – restrictions of freedom, which we unfortunately had to get used to in the last two years: Baseline restrictions, contact reductions, almost a ruin of the social, economic life in Austria, massive interventions in our personal freedoms, which were thereby given, with devastating psychological consequences, with devastating social, but also economic consequences for people, for society, for our country. From this vicious circle of permanent up and down, this vicious circle of uncertainties is an effective way from my point of view and from the point of view of most experts, and that is a high rate of vaccination in Austria. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] To make the vaccination against Corona mandatory is now an emergency exit. It is an emergency exit to get out of the constant restrictions and restrictions on our personal fundamental and freedom rights, which we have had to endure in the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, many untruths have also been spread, discussed and claimed in recent weeks. The fact is that this vaccination protects, it also protects against omicron. This vaccination protects against severe procedures. Every vaccination counts, and that's why we don't have time to lose either. It's about the pace, it's about time. But it's not just about Omikron, it's too short, because we don't know what mutation, which virus variant will come to Omikron, and that's crucial. Is it as infectious as Delta and as contagious as Omikron? - It could be, we don't know. Is Omikron the beginning of the end of the pandemic and the beginning of the endmie? - It could be, we don't know. As long as we do not know, ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility to go the way of security. It is our responsibility to be safe in order to protect the health of people in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nobody, nobody, has made the decision easy with regard to today's vote. We Social Democrats take responsibility: Responsibility for the protection of life, responsibility for protecting the health of the population – in times of government as well as in times of opposition work. One thing is very central for us: Vaccination is a solidarity act. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Brückl: Such a fool!]] Vaccines is a solidarity act with which one not only protects oneself, but above all others – the weaker ones who cannot protect themselves, the children who cannot yet be vaccinated, the health staff, who after two years is pandemic on the edge, is at the limit of his powers. I would also like to draw one point out, one that is also important to us: This law must not last any longer than necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is precisely what is now enshrined in this draft law: The law is constantly reviewed by experts for constitutionality and legality, and subsequently the House is concerned about whether constitutionality is at all possible to report. [[Abg. Brückl: But there you have to laugh yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] This is necessary because the conditions, the virus, the pandemic are constantly changing. We know that we have learned that, and that is why it is a very crucial point in this draft law. One thing was always very important to us in this vaccination debate from the beginning: that there are also positive incentives in addition to a commitment, which in addition motivate people to be vaccinated. In addition to the obligation to send positive signals is a very important sign, especially in times of a social division in Austria. It is also a win-win situation: The increase in the purchasing power generated by vaccinations and vaccinations will support the domestic economy, and jobs will be safeguarded and created at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility also means not to play with the fears and concerns of people in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If scientific facts are systematically denied when conspiracy theories are spread when medical personnel in Austria are threatened and attacked when children, as we had to read today, are wearing masks, threatened by coronaleugers, insulted and yelled at, then there must be opposition from all the democratic forces of this country! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] I can assure you at this point: Social democracy will assume this responsibility at any time. We have done this in the past, and we will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21005	Federal Minister Mückstein has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Today is an important day, today we want to take an essential step in Austrian Corona politics together. We have here a forward-looking measure which will be taken by you At the table is a forward-looking measure, as we have not had it in the last two years of the pandemic fight. With the present draft law on vaccination we have a large and for the first time also a particularly sustainable lever in the fight against the pandemic in our hands. This measure will help us – not just tomorrow and against Omikron, but that was not the aim of this law at all. Rather, this vaccination obligation will benefit us in the next waves, in the fight against upcoming virus variants. So we can make it possible to escape the cycle from up and locked-up, from waves and lockdowns, and that is why this law now needs so urgently. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] We are not simply reacting to this, but we are taking an important step forward and actively towards future developments. [[The representatives of the FPÖ shall keep up-to-date tablets with the title ‘No to Impabo’, ‘Gegen Impfwang’, ‘For Freedom’.]] It is not only because of this that I am proud of this draft law, but above all because of its origin. Four parliamentary parties worked together with representatives from civil society and many experts. This law, despite this delicate matter, stands on a broad foundation, on such a broad foundation as hardly any other regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21072	May I ask you to take the Taferls back down? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21087	After we agreed at the end of last year to take this joint step, there have been numerous rounds. We talked to doctors, we talked to epidemiologists, to ethnicians. We spoke with representatives of the faith communities, with pensioners, with youth representatives. We have discussed a lot, quite controversially as well. Not only in these rounds, much was discussed in recent weeks, but in all of Austria, and that was important, that was good, because that was our goal as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21105	Sorry! [[Towards media representatives at the gallery:]] I would ask the gallery not to photograph the documents of the mandates.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21130	Numerous constructive opinions have been received in this review process. Many of them have also found their way into the draft law that is in front of you today. I would also like to thank those who have been constructively involved in this process at this point, that was a lot of effort and a lot of work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank all the participants in SPÖ and NEOS for their constructive cooperation on this law. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One was in the centre, in the foreground of this process: The vaccination protects us and the vaccination protects our fellow human beings, and a high rate of vaccination protects our health system. Imprisonment is a decision for us as a society, for a return to a cohabitation, as we knew before the pandemic and as we, I think, are all quite painfully missing – and this is precisely what it is all about: It is a good thing to live together, it is about what is behind the obligation of vaccination, about a concept of solidarity and a principle of cohesion. The vaccination is proof of saving life, we must keep this in mind. The more people have a corona vaccine, the less the consequences of the corona pandemic die. It's just that we know: The vaccination protects. Let's immunize! Let us protect our fellow human beings and protect our health system by a high rate of vaccination! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] That is why we, as elected representatives of the people, but also as a society, must do everything we can to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated in Austria. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You are not a elected representative...!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] The vaccination, especially the booster, also protects against severe diseases in the omicron variant, we already know, and therefore a general vaccination requirement is still the right way. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] If we want to get out of the cycle of locking up and locking up and lockdown, then this law needs to be done – and an end to the tough measures to protect against Corona, we wish, I believe, all. To do this, we need a good overall social immunity in the autumn, all of which are based on experts. This law will support us. Now on the details of the draft law: The Covid-19 Imprisonment will be valid for all persons from 18 to 18 years of age. The birthday is valid for those who reside in Austria. The exception are pregnant women and those who cannot be vaccinated for closely defined medical reasons. Furthermore, genes are excluded for a period of 180 days. The Covid-19 Imprisonment will take place in three phases. In the first phase, starting at the beginning of February, the vaccination requirement will enter into force. We will also inform each household in writing. This phase lasts until mid-March. In the second phase, starting in mid-March, compliance with vaccination requirements will be checked. This will be done in the case of police controls, such as road traffic controls, or in the case of monitoring of compliance with corona protection measures. Those who do not have a valid vaccination status shall be asked in writing to carry out this proof. If this does not happen, a penalty of up to 600 euros will be imposed. In the third phase, we will first of all personally remind all the unvaccinated persons of their vaccination obligation, and a month later we will review who has not yet complied with his vaccination obligation. If you have not yet fulfilled your vaccination obligation, there is also a penalty of up to 600 euros. It is also important to stress that all people in Austria have the opportunity to receive this important corona vaccination free of charge. As Minister of Health and Doctor, I ask you today and at this point: Please take advantage of the next opportunity and be vaccinated now! Please don't wait for the vaccination requirement! [[It is a surprise to the Greens and to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Covid-19 Pandemic is still a special exceptional situation for all of us, but I am convinced that we will be able to achieve this so necessary additional percentage in the rate of vaccination. We have agreed together to implement this law, and we have done so too, because together we can create a new and clear perspective in dealing with the pandemic, a way back to the normality that we all wish for so longingly, and precisely that is why we need this law. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, also today for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21215	Mrs Prince is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21237	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A government is always as good as the consultants she chooses, and since the expert hearing in the Health Committee last Monday I know why this government is so bad and why its corona policy is so irrational. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It was a woman Univ.-Prof. Wendehorst from the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna, loaded by the ÖVP. It shall adopt the following provisions on the Committee: It is not a question of whether the vaccination requirement is proportionate with respect to omicron, but it is a long-term measure and so on – that is, it will become proportionate once again. It is only a framework law with the essential points, and we should not be upset, then the regulations of the Minister of Health will come up with which it is flexible and concrete, which then selects the vaccines for us and sets out the time intervals. - Very soothing. She then continues to ask the question herself in space: What did this government do wrong in the years 2020 and 2021? Did she do everything right? – That doesn't matter, she didn't even worry about it. It's just that there's a vaccination obligation now, that's the only thing she's sure about. This prevents future overload of the health system. – So much for legal support for vaccination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next comes the medical expert, put by the Greens, namely Mrs. Dr. Rahaby, established doctor, and she argues similarly facts-based, hardy, professionally serious in the medical field: Yes, the protection of the vaccination at Omikron has been weakened. But Omikron is not allowed to be impoverished, there are very clumsy processes. There is a collapse in the health system that entire departments have been closed. The question, why, came the answer: It is not because of corona diseases of personnel, for example, but because of quarantine schemes – that is, we have an overload due to the Corona policy and measures. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls with the Greens.]] – That was the answer, just laugh! On the question: What about early medical therapies as an alternative to vaccinations?, there was the answer: There are no adequate studies on efficacy. The answer to the question of how it would be to build up a bit of capacity, with a staff offensive to intercept the tops in the hospital: Well, you can't screw at all places, and, moreover, she's not competent for this question. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... screw places!]] What she could say, however, is that the pandemic is full of surprises – which she has somehow found to be quite delighted. Everything could always be quite different. You don't know anything – but she knows: Imprisonment is the solution to the pandemic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I still have to mention a highlight. Laer's virologist – I think she's known to us all; she's not in the committee, but she's, I think, in the living rooms of all of us every day – said yesterday: The worse a vaccination works, the more people must be vaccinated. Please make this statement work: The worse a vaccination works, the more people must be vaccinated. - That's why we have a vaccination obligation. And that's the science you're always talking about, on which you're building your corona policy and your vaccination duty. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I have waited for the answer to the all-important question why, in order to avoid the regularly threatening overload of the health system, the current government has not been buying a single bed in addition for two years, but on the contrary – at normal stations, at intensive stations – reduces beds, why no increase of personnel is made, but on the contrary, staff is reduced and driven away, among other things, by the vaccination, why there is not even a reward for the staff, a staff offensive, concepts to make the health system more economic, but is put entirely one-sided only on the rights of the population. This has been avoided by the experts in the committee and, as has been the case before, by politicians and media such as the plague. Why? - Because then you have to say: There is a total failure of the Minister of Health in organisational and political terms – nothing was done in the hospitals in two years, you can't believe it! – but, of course, there is not only a failure of the Minister of Health, but also one of the Federal Government, which does not require this from the Minister of Health. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Minister of Health Mückstein in the Committee, sovereign as always, has noted above all after reading the usual flakes – he has not repeated this today – that he is very proud of this law. – He is proud of a law that pushes hundreds of thousands of people into the corner here in Austria, indignant, which is socially a catastrophe, is not to be blamed medically, ethically and legally – there is about the worst fates – he is proud of a law of injustice. He is proud that so many of the SPÖ and the NEOS go along. I can only say to the SPÖ that the argument in committee and today is interesting: The government has failed, therefore, to impose a vaccination obligation on the population. - Sure! I mean, I'm not going to go to the government, but I'm going to let the people do this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, party chairman: There must be a contradiction when children have to wear masks for hours in class, and not if this is criticized, just so much for it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But not the children...!]] And, Mrs. Party leader Meinl-Reisinger, you once referred to our corona policy and our position on the voluntary nature of vaccination as “fettering”. I'm just asking one question: Do you know what a boomerang is? [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the warmth of the Abg. Kickl.]] I advise the government: Exchange your advisors, your experts! Show the government experts the doors, as well as the Covid prognosis, the National Imprisonment, Gecko in Tarnuit, and listen to your reason, to your humanity that you have certain! Be responsible, don't vote for the law! You'll do it, but it won't bring you any luck.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21344	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21365	Mr President. Minister! Women Ministers! Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it's quite easy: It unites us with a common goal – I hope at least – that this shattering and invigorating pandemic is finally over and that we can live a more normal life again, as we were used to. The Federal Government and four out of five parties do everything for this, and that is what it says: Thank you for this broad base! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The question that arises, of course, is: How can we achieve this desired normality again? Do we create this with strange, life-threatening ideas – I don't want to mention them again and again – or do we do this with persistent lockdowns? – No, it’s unfortunately – whether we want it or not –: The only medium and long-term strategy is vaccination because the vaccination works, protects and benefits, and there we are all required. Unfortunately, it is necessary to say that this I-AG or individual egoism must now be a bit shorter. After two years, the times in which everyone can do what he wants – act after the abdominal sensation or misinterpret or misinterpret or misinterpret the concept of freedom. [[Abg. Kickl: Aha!]] [[Abg. Hauser: Unmistakable!]] I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, with a feeling of a stomach, you won't defeat a pandemic. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: A truth ministry, that would be it!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Nor do people defeat the pandemic if you deny everything and continue to boycott sensible measures – I look in those rows, in which unfortunately a few Members still do not wear a mask that would currently be very helpful in the omicron variant. [[Abg. Brückl: After incredible!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Shame!]] [[Abg. Smoke: Sit down!]] There is a word creation of pandemic and tiredness, the pang-tiredness, and this pang-tiredness is currently rather reflected in the mood. [[Abg. Port pitcher: Not enough, sit!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Inconceivable!]] The mood varies between: Everything doesn't matter anyway, I'm going to infect myself anyway!, up to a voluntary self-insulation of people who don't go far enough. This pang-tiredness is now subject to vaccination, and I say it quite clearly to you again and again: No human has wanted this vaccination obligation, but unfortunately, as a society, we have not managed to convince enough people of the vaccination, and that is a pity and also saddens me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] I'm not a friend and I've never been a friend of vaccination, but from my point of view, it's an alternative, because the rate of vaccination is not as high as it should be. But to mention positive things: 70 percent of all Austrians of the imperceptible age have been vaccinated to their fellow human beings for reasons of reason, medical insight and solidarity, and I would like to thank 70 percent for that. [[Abg. Brügl:... Freedom restrictions...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also facts about this: In triple-vaccinated subjects, the protection effect from symptomatic processes is also 70 percent for omicron. [[Abg. Kickl: Relative or absolute? Relative or absolute?]] There is a protection against hospital stays of almost 90 percent and protection against stays at intensive care stations of over 90 percent. These are facts that speak for themselves. I repeat: Protection against hospital stays in the omicron variant: 90 percent, protection against stays at intensive care stations: over 90 percent, and this also confirms my daily experiences as a doctor. [[Abg. Kickl: Relative or absolute? ... isn't that hard to answer!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Omikron, the new variant, is so contagious that we don't pass it unless we're well protected – and that's what we're doing with the vaccination. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Mr President!]] In order to equalise fakes of compensation in the event of any vaccination: Of course, Covid vaccinations are legally enshrined in the Vaccination Act according to the Vaccination Law. Of course, for any vaccine damage after Covid vaccination, we will have a claim for compensation – we will decide today, probably even unanimously. Some say now: Omikron is so harmless anyway, what do I need to have the vaccination? – Omikron is not harmless, even if it is probably a tick less dangerous than Delta. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not over after Omikron, even if we wish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Vaccination is a long-term strategy. I refer to this Vaccination Act as a Vaccination Framework Act, since there is a framework for flexibility – so to speak, a vaccination obligation with attractive hand brakes, as some call it. There are several phases: The first phase is the information phase. As of mid-March, there are controls, commemorations with vaccination demands, and finally, there may be penalties when it is epidemiologically necessary. This draft is a balanced draft, which is widely supported by 80 per cent of Members in plenary session. Our aim is to fight the corona pandemic with the highest possible degree of vaccination and regain freedom for all of us. There are only two options: Either to be vaccinated or to infect. The difference: In vaccination, the risk for side effects is very low, but the infection without vaccination often leads to severe progressions and to Long Covid. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brückl and Mr Stefan.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The facts speak for vaccination. Don't be afraid, the Pieks is harmless, you protect yourself and help everyone else! We can do it together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21599	Mr Hafenecker has spoken about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21625	Mr Saxinger just said: These are the times when everyone can do and leave what they want. – Now we want to leave that up as you would like. However, what I would like to refer to in my statements on business treatment is the criticism that Mr Saxinger has also practiced on you, Mr President, and Mr Saxinger has strongly condemned the fact that there are still Members in Parliament who do not wear a mask, including you, Mr President, and also some colleagues here from the ÖVP. I would like to point out that there has been a presidential in which it has been agreed that we will no longer talk about wearing masks and not wearing them. Mr Saxinger obviously no longer had this in mind that one agreed to refrain from doing so in the future. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, once again to your fellow Member, who has also criticized you – and this massively: They sit up there all day without a mask – remembering this decision of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21666	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21688	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you mind? If a Member of this House is said to have violated, or violated, the “Würde” of the House under quotation marks, then there is a call for order; but if an ÖVP member goes out here and the dignity of the Austrian citizens comes with feet, that is completely wreathed. And you're still wondering that people are turning away from this policy? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The liberal Members – both the vaccinated and the unvaccinated – will vote against this vaccination today, because we are most deeply convinced that no Member has the right to determine simply the body of a citizen. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I can only appeal to your conscience, to the conscience and to the humanity of all Members here: Just watch that you can still look in the mirror tomorrow! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Be careful that you do not stand up here today to believe that you could misuse your voice, which was entrusted to you by the people, and turn against your own people! After all, it's quite simple: No politician, no government, no parliamentarian here in this House has the right to determine what happens to the body of every individual Austrian citizen. The physical integrity and the body in itself belong to every human being and no politician. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that this sentence causes laughter from the ranks of the Greens makes you quite afraid and afraid. Dear Members of the Greens: In the past, minorities, human rights and fundamental rights have meant anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] But also at the SPÖ: In the past, the dignity of the individual person for social democracy was still a little worth it. Even if this is not the case with the EIA, I ask myself the question and many citizens ask themselves the question: How can you maneuver a country and yourself so blindly against the wall and drive against the wall and stick to a vaccination obligation, while our neighbouring country Czech Republic is already taking back the vaccination obligation as a mistake, while in the UK almost all measures are lifted and during, for example, in Bavaria 2G in Retailing was shredded? – Absolutely with full steam against the wall – unfortunately not only the Austrian People's Party, but our whole country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I am more concerned with every single Member sitting in here. I wonder, What's human in you? What is human in you, and how can you put millions of people under such pressure with your voice? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How can you look in the mirror tomorrow? I wonder. Do you know what you are doing not only with democracy and the rule of law, but also with human health? Do you know what you're doing psychologically in millions of Austrians when you push them against the wall with your back? That you are not ashamed and still cling to it, although you do such a damage! I have to tell you: Good night, Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I may contact the Austrians: Please do not lose your courage and hope! Please do not forget: In a democracy, the people are always the boss, and that's why the whole thing will go well. No Member will make sure that this law, which is now being passed, will keep it that way. Don't forget that every single Member who votes against your dignity today is a passenger if you go to the vote on the next election day! Ladies and gentlemen, the hour zero – and I promise you – will come for ÖVP, for Greens, for SPÖ and for NEOS. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, beware! Whoever believes today, with his voice, nine million Austrians – because this decision concerns all, vaccinated and unvaccinated – must take their right to self-determination over their own bodies, there is a danger that the electorate will take his mandate at the next election – and that, ladies and gentlemen, is quite right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Because then you have not understood and failed to see what great responsibility you, as a Member of Parliament, have to bear towards each individual citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21809	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21830	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! I'd start like this: What do we think today? – We agree, I believe, that we are all satisfied that we want to have our normal life again and that we want the freedoms, and that we want to have full freedoms, as we had them before 2020. What else is wrong with us? – It has already been mentioned: this inconceivable tiredness. Not only the last days and weeks have been strenuous, but the last few years have been strenuous for mothers, for children, for young people, for teachers, for many, many business drivers, yes, and certainly for you here in the house. What else is wrong with us? – We do not want to have another situation where we see that doctors, nurses and nurses are so at their limit that other diseases than Covid cause people to die, die unnecessarily, die prematurely. I have heard this week that in Austria consumption or at least the use of sleeping equipment has increased dramatically. That's dramatic. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... Mückstein!]] The figures on depression, especially among children and adolescents, and unfortunately the idea of suicide, are dramatic. It shows how bad people are and how urgently we all need it that these times are finally behind us: Children and young people who are able to go back to school again fully, can also make sports without a mask, participate in all leisure and school activities; economic operators who are able to do what they do, namely to operate; Traders who don't have to play police anymore. One thing is also quite clear: never again such restrictions of freedom as we had them! It is no secret that we NEOS are very often very critical of the massive interference in the fundamental and freedom rights of the past and have not carried them along. For example, we do not carry the lockdown for unvaccinated people because it goes too far for us, or the lockdown in autumn, because we think it was overwhelming and went too far. But what was also clear – and in this regard our position was always clear – is that the only way to help us is that everyone, as far as possible, is going to immunise. It is true what was said at the beginning of the pandemic, and it is quite simple: Everyone and everyone will get this virus. Yes, and that will sometime take another course, but we must be careful not to get too many at the same time and not get too many at the same time that have never been in contact with any immunological event, be it the infection or the vaccination. This is still true. It's actually very simple. The policy should look at nothing else: that it does not get everyone at the same time, so that, even if it does not happen to everyone, but some of it hits hard, the health system does not get to the limit – quite simply! I think that this is what everyone in Austria really understands, perhaps up to FPÖ. The vaccination rate is simply too low, it is too low. The danger is too great that we will again be in a dangerous situation. And yes, these are massive failures of the Federal Government, we cannot spare you today. Let me say one thing: I spent months with it, my group spent months putting forward proposals on how to make positive incentives, from lotteries to incentives for communities, especially mayors and citizens – for months to fail! You could say, better late than never, I think it's good that there are incentives now, but quite honestly: On the day of the introduction of a vaccination obligation to spend 1 billion euros on a lottery, I think it is somewhat bizarre and a bit of an increase. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So these massive failures of the government are here. That will be part of the reason why the vaccination rate is too low. The other part of the explanatory statement may also be here in the House: This is the agitation, including the FPÖ, against vaccination. Was that all right? – No, certainly not, and it just didn’t help us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Too often the Federal Government was rightly accused of not acting early to be prepared for any further waves. Now it is quite clear that this vaccination obligation, which no one wanted, can not for now, for the Omikron wave, ensure that it has a great damping effect, but at least for autumn. We have been very intensely concerned about whether Omikron is changing something about the situation; you have to. You have to discuss this openly, and I have called for that. No, it's not because the vaccination works. On the other hand, it has not been said – and this has already been mentioned – that it is over with this wave that does not come again, for example, Delta or another variant. Very often, and I am now looking towards the population, rightly the policy has been accused of not acting foresightfully. Now there is the first chance that politics is faster than the virus. I would like to refer once again to the issue of the health system, because the truth is a very hard one. Actually, we have had a triage for months when it comes to cancer patients. We have had a trial for months when it comes to necessary but perhaps not immediately vital operations. – This is just so taken away, including from you, from the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stefan: Not at all...!]] This is unacceptable to me. It's gonna have to end. The reason is simply that too few people are vaccinated. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] I know there are good positions for and against vaccination; there are no good positions against vaccination. I also don't quite understand why you're immersing yourself in this way, and just talking to the opponents here, because there are good reasons why you're against a vaccination obligation, but not good reasons why you're against vaccination. [[Abg. Kickl: What you know!]] I think that this also has place in a liberal society and, by the way, also in a liberal party place, as you will see today. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brügl.]] Out of the thought of freedom, however, it is acceptable that we say: The freedom of the individual ends where the freedom of the other begins. [[Abg. Kickl: It burns lightly with you!]] I therefore see it as my responsibility and the responsibility of my group to provide a large majority here today, to ensure a broad consensus and thus to express a clear will of the legislator. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I am also convinced that people outside want us to work together and try together to bring this crisis behind us. We have improved this bill clearly compared to what was originally on the table. I also thank you for the constructive discussions, but it was also very necessary. I would like to draw three points: on the one hand, the fixed expiry date – that has been discussed – and on the other hand, the flexibility that I believe is urgently needed, along with the evaluation that has come in. Yeah, that's a driving lookout, but it's good and right so that we're ready for autumn. The second point that was very important to us: Inform instead of punishing. This is the access that we have always had; this too is now realized. And it's no secret that we said: Let the 14 to 18-year-olds out, let's do this from 18! I would like to make one more point because this has often been mentioned: That's the issue of executionability. There is a fundamental consensus in our country, and this basic consensus means that one adheres to laws. I appeal to everyone to continue with this basic consensus. Mr Klubobmann, I think he is particularly true of Members who have sworn to this Constitution. [[towards Abg. Kickl]] Leave You don't have that basic consensus! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] I think it is more than fair that any penalties will benefit the health system, because this has not been mentioned so often. That is what I think is right and important, because there are people who have to deal with the consequences of this crisis every day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brückl]] I would also like to say this with regard to the executionability: With all love for administrative judges, it is preferable to me to be administrative judges overburdened as nurses and doctors. That's far better for me. The clear will of the legislator is expressed. It's clear, too, and that's very important to me today: However, it must also be very clear that the decision must be taken in the direction of freedom. This means that I do not think it is feasible for us to continue to have a lockdown for the unvaccinated, that it is not feasible for 2G trade workers to continue playing police and that we need a roadmap, as we generally do with all the restrictions on freedom, such as blocking or 2G. I don't think that's a place anymore, because then the step into a normal life really has to be taken again. Vaccines are the right way. Please let yourself be immunized! But then it must be clear: Freedom must again be fully guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21975	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e21996	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Quite honestly, for a green person, this is not an easy exercise today. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] This is not the law I have always imagined, which I absolutely want to defend and decide here. This is also a very difficult exercise for us, but it is also a need to be free according to Faith No More: “It’s a straight job, but someone’s Godta do it.” Mrs. Prince, I would like to replicate very briefly what you said earlier. [[Abg. Stefan: Is it now a light exercise or a difficult exercise?]] You also presented the hearing a little bit as larifari coffin. Mr. Prince, there were five experts present who really made a very valuable contribution and made a very good contribution. I can only recommend it to those who want to see it with their own eyes. It is available on Parliament's homepage and lasts a little more than 3 hours. It can be seen that the whole story was a little different from that of my colleague Prince. But let's go on the real subject. Let's say – I said it – that it is necessary because it is the Ultima Ratio in this pandemic and we finally need a tool to have normality again in the coming autumn of this year, so that we do not go back into a pandemic autumn and in the future into a pandemic winter. But it is also because we have seen very well in the fourth wave of infection, in this fourth wave of pandemic, in international comparison, which comes out if there is a good, high rate of vaccination: Countries with significantly better vaccination rates have experienced better. Although they also had high incidences and very many infections, there had to be significantly fewer people hospitalized there and there were significantly fewer people landed at the intensive care station – unlike us in Austria. So we see: The vaccines against Covid are anti-tangling and anti-intensive. But we also see this on a very different matter: If we decide on these protection regulations in the main committee, then the Ages will always experience the general situation for us. One of the factors that we always look at is the question: How does it look at intensive care stations? For months, at least since mid-October, if I have it right in my head now, it's always the same picture: Three-quarters of patients treated for covid at the intensive care centre are unvaccinated, a quarter are vaccinated. With the figures available in the early days, it has become a bit more extreme: 18 percent are vaccinated, 82% are unvaccinated. That's the situation, that's numbers, that's data, that's facts. That is, the vaccination reduces the risk of serious illness. It reduces the risk of intensive illness. It dampens the infection in the population and forces the virus – the more people are vaccinated – to another infection behaviour. All this is obvious, all this speaks for a high vaccination rate. On the other hand, the following question must be clarified: How far can the state intervene in individual personal freedom? My colleague, Agnes Prammer, will certainly also address this in more detail. At the expert hearing on Monday this was also a central point. The following question was also raised: Is a functioning health care an urgent social need for which the State is entitled to intervene accordingly? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Before addressing this question, I would like to take a brief look at the review procedure. We took this very seriously. As it is a good green tradition, we have then taken a close look at the opinions together with SPÖ, NEOS and our coalition partner, as well as with the social partners and the experts, and have also changed a lot. My colleague, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, has already explained what was very important for her group – and I can agree with that – a 18-year-old limit instead of 14 years old. Three phases instead of a rigid punishment model, I wrote to myself, increased education, more incentives accompanying the obligation to do so by means of a consultation mechanism with experts to check whether proportionality continues. In particular, the latter, and also all the other regulations, are carried out in conjunction with the National Council through the main committee, in order to ensure and facilitate parliamentary control of this law. In this context, I would also like to make two amendments on this item on the agenda: Firstly, this concerns an amendment to the COVID-19 Imprisonment Act. On the one hand, this is about adjusting the title. In this context, it is about the definition of the genetic status, and it is about this very precise differentiation of this accompanying monitoring. In this respect, Mr Loacker asked again on Monday the question as to how the three months are going and when this is taking place. We have defined all of this more precisely in this proposal and have put it closer to the point. He's going to be distributed in the hall right now. Since we are also negotiating the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act, I would also like to make an amendment in this respect. It is a question of what happens in the case of repeated disregard for covid requirements: what we define even more precisely in this amendment. In this context, however, I would like to hold on – this is also important to me, because outside the broad world and also on the part of the FPÖ are always pretended to be just about this controversial MRNA vaccine –: It's all about vaccines. Of course, all vaccines authorised in Austria and certified by the EMA are taken into account in the vaccination requirement, i.e. these new vaccines, which one or the other is still waiting for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] But it is important: The vaccine must be safe and approved. [[Abg. Stefan:... a regulatory authority!]] This also requires the appropriate quality and safety. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan: But don't stand anywhere!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] All the more important it will be in the coming weeks and months to continue dealing with each other and to conduct this discourse. However, this also includes recognizing figures, data and facts. It should also be acknowledged that there is evidence, and this should also include seeing the issue of Covid in the broadness of its impact on our health, rather than simply piling out a statistics and stylizing a bit of a single case there and closing it from this individual case to the overall as the colleagues from FPÖ would like to do so in order to hit the political small money that has already been quoted. We're clear, in this pandemic something changes every day, and for the current omicron variant, this vaccination law is also too late. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] This law of vaccination applies where we are in the coming autumn. It is about preparing ourselves, because from today's point of view we do not know what is expected of us in the coming autumn and winter and what variant will then demand us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But it is about this urgent social need for a functioning health system, as I said earlier. That's not what I said in this expert hearing, that's what FPÖ expert Dr. Geistlinger has put into play. I believe that if such a robust health care system as Austrian has been collapsing several times before, the question of urgent social need for a functioning health system has been clarified from my point of view, when I know that vaccination is our best means, our best tool in this context. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, as my club woman has already done today, I would like to expressly thank the SPÖ and NEOS. Of course, I would like to thank the coalition partner, the many experts, the employees in the Ministry of Minister Mückstein, but also, of course, the Constitutional Service, for the experts I mentioned earlier, who have been voluntaryly advised here and who have really been very valuable. That was a strong piece of work, a heavy piece of work, but – I said it on Monday – I went out of the Health Committee on Monday with raised head because I think we have put together a really good law here. This is also seen by: If you want, we can all achieve something together. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you are invited: You can agree, too. It does not hurt, and it would bring our country much more than this grandchildly way of I-mak-not, I-m-not, which you have been showing for two years. In this sense: Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:38]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22519	The two amendments have been properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the – The contribution from Carinthia. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22544	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have to confess, since I've been here in Parliament, that is definitely one of the most difficult decisions I have to make today. It is so difficult for me to do so because we all had to warn each other for months about these developments. I find it all the worse now that there is now only a brown men's handbag on the square on which the Chancellor of the Republic of Austria normally sits. Instead of an excuse from the Federal Chancellor, who is also ÖVP chief, here stands only this brown men's handbag – a briefcase, I ask for forgiveness. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: This is a briefcase!]] Obviously she belongs to Vice Chancellor Kogler, it's a briefcase. I actually wanted to point out that the Federal Chancellor is not present. He would have had the opportunity to say openly and honestly today that he is sorry that he has come so far at all. What we experienced in Austria was not a natural law and that was not an inability of the government alone, but it was also based on the fact that the ÖVP party policy was more important than good crisis management. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was the Wögingers and Maurers who said again and again in every criticism: It's not that bad. – We can all understand this: It was the country election in Upper Austria. Experts have already warned that measures should be taken, but the choice in Upper Austria was more important. You didn't do anything because you promised everything was over and the cool summer was already there, as Sebastian Kurz put it. There was a situation in Salzburg when people fought for survival at the intensive care station and Haslauer went out and mocked virologists and virologists. [[Abg. Eßl: Always be careful with...!]] That was the starting point before which we all stood. It shouldn't have come that far. [[Abg. Eßl: Always be careful!]] It should not have come that far, but we are in a situation in which we have to assume responsibility. We all have to see what doctors now tell us: that vaccination offers protection and we are all required to get out of this crisis. [[Abg. Kickl: You can do it!]] Herbert Kickl, I say this quite openly in your direction, I say that quite openly: [[Abg. Kickl: You can do it!]] If there are warnings from doctors and we all hope to trust each other that they do the best for their patients, then, when the house is burning, one must also help to erase and have the courage to take responsibility for difficult decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Dear Philip,...!]] With hands standing in the pocket and doing nothing, this is actually not worthy of a Herbert Kickl – former Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl – as well. You were once Minister of the Interior, you will not be afraid, but you can also have courage and responsibility in this situation. [[Abg. Kickl: You wouldn't have had that!]] Just because there is now some splitter group from Upper Austria, the MFG, that can't be. What has become of a once courageous party like the FPÖ that fears this anti-wind? Just because the MFG is now putting pressure, you are no longer able to stand up to your attitude and fight for the health of people to be ever more important than party tactics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] All the debates in recent months – and there is nothing better for FPÖ than the ÖVP – have made it no easier. All these comical debates about the dehydration agent, about bitter substances, about sunlight, that it all helps, were unworthy and did not help people in hospitals, patients, but especially those who are fighting for people's lives. That's the Eiertanz that you had to row back there and that in the "Kurier" you then said: Well, this worm drug doesn't replace the vaccination anyway – so in truth you believe in the vaccination now – that's also unworthy of you going out with any stories because you think you have to invent something instead of taking responsibility in this difficult situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Taking responsibility, we all do this with each other by saying that we have negotiated this law with each other – also together with countless experts – and above all guarantee that it is not a day, an hour, a minute, and no second longer in force than it is necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Together with doctors and constitutional experts, we provide for this with a monitoring. [[call to the FPÖ.]] That is something you can do quite specifically for that. Crisis management also means taking on responsibility in difficult times, even if there is counterwind. There is no time for populist envelope, but I would really ask that we try to save human lives, that we do everything we can to get out of this crisis. Just to scum around and say: Bitterings!, Ivermectin!, and whatever, will not continue to bring us all, but that really knows the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22726	Mr Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22747	Mr President. Appreciate ministers, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Health Minister! We invite all of you Members here in this House today to join us in this law, to think about it and to make the decision at the end of the day whether it really pays off to pass a vaccination law or not. You yourself – and I appeal to the Minister of Health – have not entered into this law the vaccination obligation, which you have excluded. They are in § 1 para. 3 written that direct command and forced force is excluded. That is, no Austrian and no Austrian is obliged to be vaccinated – no one. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes! Yes!]] But they went here and made it easy: You have congratulated yourself for the fact that the hospitals are now filled with coal, namely that you will necessarily impose a penalty on all Austrians who are not vaccinated. That's your law! This is your law, in which you even grounded yourself to break it down to the 14 to 18-year-olds, although, as you know, if you have read their comments, you have made it compulsory for both the organization of the pediatricians and the midwives to point out that you should not: Don't take 14 to 18-year-olds in! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – You have written that into the law. Then go one step further. They take this out and go to these young people who may not have the ability to disposition and discretion, even so far as to impose on their legal representative – and this is the worst, for example, on a disabled child or a child who does not have the ability to see – that he has to make a decision about having to be vaccinated. And if he does so and decides against it, the legal representative must have the consequences. That is, you double-punish, and that is in your definition in § 1. But you continue – because you attacked the former Minister of the Interior – and you are ready to make a wonderful presentation of Monday. But no human has read through the statement of the Arge data at some point. Do you have any idea of what this opinion of the Arge says in it? They set a law with 1. In February, it will not be possible to enter into force and the technical requirements will not be met. Elga is unable to provide the data. However, they go to the other side and look at a General Data Protection Regulation. I'll give you a tip with: If they are also enforceable by public law, each individual case must be punished with 20 million euros or with 4 percent of the company's turnover. Austria has 100 billion euros in sales. Let 4 billion euros be built, because that will be your penal framework at the end of the day! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we are only at the simple legal level on which such a mess is already in this law, and have not yet addressed the proportionality in the constitutional order. Since the decision of March 2012, decision U 466/11 ua, you know that the European Charter of Fundamental Rights has also made a very clear definition of human health or physical integrity. They always quote the Czech case, which had no basis for data at all, in order to remove this proportionality judgment from the European Court of Justice. That's going to be Your nail sample. They have intervened so much in the proportionality of individual fundamental rights that, in the end, every constitutional judge must already be aware that this law needs to be repealed. You haven't been able to do all of this with your own professional officials so far. The rest of the penalty remains, the rest of it is basically that every Austrian who, if he follows the Robert Koch Institute, receives a penalty every three months, you will be burdened with 2 400 euros at the end of the day. They drive the Austrians into debt that you are forced to stop their freedom of expression by means of a vaccination law. This is simply to refuse and not to be comprehensible from our side. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Think of the Constitution, think of Hans Kelsen, who gave us that and clearly explained that the fundamental rights are the highest good of the Austrians. We are bound by this Constitution. Decide according to your conscience and not to party jargon.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22825	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22854	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on four points. The first is: What is the current corona situation? Second: How can the gradual implementation provided for in this Imprisonment Act be understood? The third thing is: Why has a lot of flexibility been installed here? And fourth: What's the goal we're trying to do with it? I'll catch it with the First to: What about Omikron or even the corona pandemic right now? – Today, we have a seven-day incidence of about 1,500, forecast for the next time, a number between 2,000 and 3,000. If you look in countries that are ahead of us in the dynamics, you can see that because of the infectious omicron variant, they have a very steep increase, which, with a certain delay in time, also has an impact on hospitalization – less than it was in the previous variants, but in view of the enormous infection dynamics, it is very clear. Why is it milder now? On the one hand, there is the hope that the variant may be a little milder in itself, but on the other hand, there is the protection that the vaccination already offers, so that there are very many mild and asymptomatic processes. However, the impact on hospitalization shows: There is still a need for action. Now we have a law that provides for gradual implementation. First of all, the consultation, the information, can only be done on time from mid-March, and I would like to point out that, in financial terms, the law only lays down the limits of the penalties and explicitly states that consideration must be given to financial performance. The third stage, at which the general population is really approached, is not automatic, but requires a regulation and, in turn, the approval of the main committee. These are essential aspects of flexibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And we need this flexibility, because many variables must be taken into account when assessing proportionality: the infection of the virus, the severity of the disease, the protection effect of the vaccination, the possibility of further therapies, the rate of vaccination, possibly new options, also towards vaccination – and all of this cannot be predicted from today's point of view for two years ahead. That really needs to be decided at the moment. That is why there are these powers of regulation, but also the three-month monitoring, the ongoing evaluation of the obligation to inform Parliament. These regulations are, in turn, subject to the obligation of the main committee, so that control is also given. Why do we need this flexibility? – Let’s look into the future: What do we want to achieve? I warn you to look at Omikron now. This is a snapshot in a very dynamic pandemic history. We don't know how it comes. But we have very good reasons to assume that we need a wide range of immunity in the population, so that whatever variants may come in the future, whatever waves can happen to us, these can never again develop this effect that we have experienced in the past, and we can find back to a normal life. That is our common goal. Let's do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22911	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e22933	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, especially Mr Health Minister. A vaccination obligation, as we are discussing it today, is, of course, a serious interference in fundamental and freedom rights. Because colleague Ragger had already straped Hans Kelsen earlier: Such interventions can only be justified if there is on the one hand a public interest in this intervention if the intervention is appropriate to achieve the intended objective and if it maintains a balance of interest. That there is a public interest in the fact that the intensive care stations are not overcrowded is, I believe, undisputed. The fact that a vaccination obligation also helps to get closer to this goal – for the more people have been vaccinated, the less countries at the intensive care station – is, I believe, very clear. The difficult question – that is, the one that we have to answer today – is whether a vaccination obligation for a balance of interests can withstand. When I look at what other options there are and what other options the Federal Government has tried in recent years, we actually find the regular lockdowns. Lockdowns are equally drastic interventions in the fundamental and freedom rights of all people in Austria. Lockdowns have prevented children from going to school so that they can enjoy education there. Lockdowns have prevented children from meeting their friends to meet their grandparents. These lockdowns have stolen young people months of their lives, which we can never return to them, and they have led to the fact that this triage that we have discussed over months has long been a reality in the childhood psychiatric system when we first started to discuss it. Lockdowns have forbidden entrepreneurs to block their business. They have led to the inconsistency of hardworking people who have not done anything wrong, who can no longer pursue their profession and have not known from this day on how to fight their livelihood. Unfortunately, they have also destroyed the economic existence of many people in Austria. Lockdowns have permanently burdened the mental health of inconceivable many people in Austria. We will also have to fight over the next few years and decades to help these people. All people in Austria were taken by lockdowns the fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms. They were not allowed to have a social life, they were not allowed to meet friends, their families were not to meet, and many were not allowed to follow their profession. Such lockdowns cannot be justified in the long run. We have learned what inconceivable economic and psychosocial effects it has given through these lockdowns, we have experienced the absurd extent of it has assumed, and therefore such lockdowns are simply no longer portable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These inconceivable fundamental rights restrictions were for all people in Austria, especially for the more than 75 percent of the people in Austria who have been vaccinated several times to protect themselves and others who regularly test themselves to protect themselves and others. These inconceivable fundamental rights restrictions can then end if we decide on this vaccination obligation. We need this vaccination duty. I, as a convinced liberal, come to the conclusion in this weighing of interests that a vaccination obligation is justified because we do so and because it is the relief of the means to finally put an end to all these other inconceivable fundamental rights restrictions. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In order for the whole Constitution to be in conformity with what was important to us, we have also put several proposals into the negotiations. It is the principle of advice rather than punishment in the foreground, there are several phases, and there will in no way be substitute sentences for people who are not willing to be vaccinated. The main committee is involved in the essential issues. If it turns out that the vaccination does not work because another variant comes, the vaccination requirement must be withdrawn as soon as possible. There will be no vaccination requirement for children and young people, and the whole law has a fixed expiry date. Finally, I would like to make an appeal to you, which may save us in the future, that we have to ask ourselves such serious questions at all and decide them. I am convinced that an essential reason for this absurd vaccination in Austria is a historical one. It is because over decades, unfortunately, many opinion makers in Austria have shown and promoted an intolerable antiscientific nature. An unmistakable skepticism towards the pharmaceutical industry has been demonstrated against an industry that has been proven to have saved millions of human lives by finding vaccines, introducing conspiracy theories into the discussion. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: From the left as well as the right!]] [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] There have also been and are still being disseminated absurd misinformation in connection with genetic engineering, without we ever even discussing what can be done for benefits through red and also green genetic engineering. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then there are all these conspiracy theories around any philanthropic billionaires, which are partially left uncontroversial and spread on. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The anti-Semitic are!]] If, at the same time, or perhaps even just because of this, I am also involved in the fact that esoteric teachings are believed more than science, if I find homeopathic drugs in pharmacies as almost equivalent to real medicine, then I do not need to be surprised that people in Austria really believe that they can proceed against a virus with an equine worm. [[Abg. Kickl: But this is a strange one...!]] [[In the case of NEOS, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Prammer.]] If this pandemic brings with it a slight chance, it is hopefully that we will put an end to this unbearable science hostility and this scepticism towards school medicine. Trust in science and let yourself be vaccinated!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23031	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23052	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, we decide today to have a mandatory vaccination. If you talk to people who have reservations about such a commitment, then there are often different alternatives to what you might do otherwise. One of these is that people who have not been vaccinated require self-retaining for the treatment costs. Or you could also increase your health insurance contributions. Some even go so far as to think you could not treat them if others needed treatment at the same time. Yes, these are really serious proposals that come, but that's not how we tick, and that's not how our system works. Our system is based on solidarity. As a state, we have the right and the duty to create and maintain a health system that ensures optimal treatment for all those who need it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We all pay in this system according to the same scheme, and we all have the same right to use it. We all have the right to be helped if we get sick, unconditionally. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] No one should be asked before if he has done anything to avoid getting sick. No one can be said: You have to get in the back, you have a too high Risk taken on you! – This is how our health system works: the same right for all, the same treatment for all. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We now face the situation that this system reaches its limits that people who need treatment do not get it because too many people are sick at the same time. And we know what the reason for this is: The reason is the Covid-19 pandemic. We have a means to prevent this. We have a means by which we can save very many people from suffering. This is the protective vaccination. Covid-19 is there, it won't just go away, and it won't just stop, but we can resist that it determines our lives forever. Through the vaccination we can protect ourselves from serious illness. Because of the fact that so many of us are protected by this vaccination, people will hardly suffer any more, and thus we protect our health system. This prevents people from getting the treatment they need and which they could have, if not too many at the same time. We, we are all, all of us who live in this country, all of us who receive this system with our contributions, all of us who can expect the best possible treatment. All of us must also help to keep this system running. The obligation to vaccination is not an invention of the Minister of Health, nor is one of the governmental parties. The obligation to protect vaccination comes from our solidarity system. We can all rely that it is for us if we need it. The appropriate means to protect it is to protect the vaccine, so we have to be vaccinated – all of us! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am also sorry that in an informed society, we have to make this natural contribution in a law, but we have to do it now because of responsibility for the health system and for all of us who are right to rely on it if we need it. The back of each right is a duty. The right to optimal treatment is the duty to protect this system. We can also do this by constantly making lockdowns and shutting everything down and locked up. We can also do this by continuing to keep people who are not protected from human accumulations in order to protect them from infection. Or we can get vaccinated. The vaccination works, it is safe, it is the most appropriate means to protect us and thus protect the system, so we have the duty to use it. That is how our solidarity system works, and nothing else is what we set out in this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23118	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23140	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! When the General Declaration of Human Rights was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948, the life expectancy for men was 62 years. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been made against the background that one has overcome a regime for which human rights and science have not played a role, and which people have actually been quite squandered. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I want to talk about life expectancy. In 1948 the men had a life expectancy of 62 years, and today we have a life expectancy of nearly 80 years at birth. These 18 years more of life expectancy, which has come to pass, have been added – that is, all experts say – that through scientific knowledge we were able to offer vaccinations. Surely half of the years of life gained are due to the fact that we have vaccinations, and to the second, that we can enforce access to these vaccinations for large masses of the population. I am now saying this quite consciously as a social democrat. We were not alone, but we have always fought for all people to have access to medical services and access to these vaccines. Make the effort and find out countries in the world – you can do that well in Wikipedia – and look at where people have access to vaccinations and where not, and then look at life expectancy! It will be recognized that vaccination is very important to increase life expectancy. I am now also saying something about figures from Austria. There is no need to study statistics. Just look at the death figures in Austria from Statistics Austria! We had more than 8,000 deaths in 2020 than in the previous years on average. We even had more deaths in 2021 than in previous years. It can't be. I also say that SPÖ-internal critics who ask us – I have had to discuss a lot –: Why are you going with the government now? - I'm saying: The government didn't deserve to go with us, but do you know who deserved it? – The people in Austria deserved that we finally get out of there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We've achieved a few things. I say it again: Vaccines are also a duty. There are also obligations in democracy which people have to take on or whose fulfillment can also be demanded from them. We've improved a lot. We've seen it fit at work. We've brought in some things. The Minister promised that 3G would stay at work. That's important to us. We said very clearly: The vaccination saves life. We're on it. We said very clearly: We are responsible. I therefore also tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is what the Austrian population needs. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23301	The motion for a resolution was properly tabled by Mr Stäger and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23328	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, dear spectators! I would like to take up two points which have been raised several times today. One is the concept of solidarity. Yes, we are putting on a solidary health system, but yes, we should do something for this solidary health system. It is not only about individual protection, it is also about the protection of the Community. When I imagine that people don't have an appointment for surgery that is urgently needed, people have to wait because we have too many people who are suffering from Covid who are unvaccinated with Covid, then I think about myself. I also see that there are not only rights but also obligations in democracy. We also have the duty to protect each other. I understand this under a moral obligation. I'm protecting myself, and I'm protecting my counterpart. If you turn back the wheel of time around a year when the first time the vaccination became really big topic, then it is to be said that the debate on safety has just come up. It was always quite clear: It is not an emergency permit – to clarify it again – but it is a conditional authorisation. This means nothing more than that the whole world has concentrated on having been permanently registered with the pharmaceutical authority and that it has been checked over and over again during this process. The vaccines approved by the EMA, released by the National Vaccination Body and vaccinated in Austria are certain that you can rely on them. - That's about vaccines. On the other side of the vaccine cremation: I liked what Mr Scherak said about vaccination. I'm old enough that there was no measles vaccination in my childhood, and I almost died of measles. In 1984, vaccination against measles and mumps was included in the vaccination program, thank God. [[Abg. Schrangl: Yes, but these vaccines have a higher protection effect!]] At FSME it was like this: ==References== We were simply vaccinated in the gymnasium, and yes, there were side effects. But what was the goal? – To protect us. We're not doing anything else now. I don't know where Mr. Prince's health committee was, I was obviously with another expert hearing, because both Primarius Sebesta and Dr.in Rabady have made it quite clear that this vaccination also protects against omicron. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] People who are twice vaccinated and refreshed have a much better, up to 90 percent higher protection than those who are not vaccinated. [[Abg. Worm: By Pfizer!]] Our goal should be, it has been said several times today: Omikron is now present, but what we are doing now is to take care of what is coming. In the course of the pandemic, science has also repeatedly revised and learned things. I trust in science and the findings of the experts, the doctors, lawyers, who were now involved in the joint process in the creation of this law. I would like to express my thanks again for the great cooperation, for the constructive. I can remember the first conversations with Pamela Rendi-Wagner and Beate Meinl-Reisinger, it has always been controversially discussed, but that does not change the fact that we have a common goal: to regain our freedom. We can do that if we really raise the rate of vaccination, the vaccination rate, that must be our common goal. I really want to ask you all from the heart: Join, trust in science, trust your doctor, your doctor, and do not trust what you read in any dubious social media networks, but contact directly the people who actually have the knowledge! This is my appeal to you, that is my request to you, because I am deeply convinced that, with the necessary vaccination rate together, we can do much better through the pandemic, we are much better equipped and then regain our freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23384	Next speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23406	Madam President. Government members! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarz, like so many others, has, in my view, tried the completely false solidarity argument. On the one hand, Mrs Schwarz: Solidarity is not solidarity when it happens under compulsion. - That's the first one. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The second is: We could perhaps talk about solidarity if the vaccination were to give a sterile immunity, as is the case with the measles vaccination you have been referring to. We can be glad that there are such vaccinations, but this is not the case with this vaccination. I actually wanted to start my speech with something else, namely a question to those Members and those colleagues who are going to go through this empowerment law here today. Dear colleagues, what do you think? You know who you are? What do you think you are? [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: National Council!]] What are you measuring? – Yes, we are the National Council, but this is not, as usual, a democratic majority decision, in which there is a decision that is recognised and valid. That's a presumption! They speak of having the right to decide on the bodies of other people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] Physical integrity is not a majority decision, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Democratic!]] The right to physical integrity is a human right. A medical procedure, and this is probably also the vaccination, is permitted only on the basis of the individual's personal and free decision, of the individual person. What you're doing here is presumptuous, superlative and also dishonest. – It was written to you once in the main book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, in your diction, new terms are always added. All of them, down from Chancellor Nehammer, are now seeking freedom. We all regain our freedom through the vaccination obligation. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, Chancellor Nehammer is not interested in the debate on this historic and far-reaching decision, nor is he interested in 200 000 opinions, hundreds of thousands of peaceful demonstrators and, as you all seem, the countless emails of the citizens concerned. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I am now four years in this house, I have never received as many emails as I have in the last two days; there are also surprisingly many doctors. [[Abg. Gödl: From the ban on smoking!]] [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: By the ban on smoking!]] If you were to read the emails and make the effort to answer them, you would know what moves people. But you ignore the people, you don't mind, you're going through your agenda. Tell me what agenda this is! – It cannot be a health agenda, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They all say that the vaccination brings us back freedom, Vaccination brings freedom. "War is peace! Freedom is slavery! Ignorance is strength!" – Here we are with George Orwell, ladies and gentlemen. As with Orwell, terms are completely reversed in their meaning, as with Orwell, the freedom robbers and oppressors want to explain to us that only their repressions bring us freedom, ladies and gentlemen. Fundamental rights are not negotiable. [[Cheerfulness of Vice Chancellor Kogler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] They are indivisible, inalienable, and not conditionable. You share our fundamental rights, you make them temporary privileges. This applies to all, the entire population is affected. The privileges are limited in time to those who set a behaviour that is desired by the state. [[Call the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer talking about a threat of a social credit system based on Communist-Chinese model. We have the social credit system in Austria, which is real thanks to your policy, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, we still have 2G in place, which completely eliminates countless innocent citizens from public life. We still have the starting limits, of which more than one million people are affected. You know exactly, Minister of Health, that is also contrary to the principle of the situation in the hospitals, which is contrary to the own level plan. This is unconstitutional, so these starting restrictions are also illegal. And now the vaccination is still coming. All of this is done on the basis of a purely claimed health risk to the general public, ladies and gentlemen. They always say that the vaccination rate leads to the release of the health system. I would like to make a proposal, and I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a useful task for the police. Abuses You're not the police, stop driving this rope between the police and the population! The police are uniform citizens, these are mothers, these are fathers. They abuse the police for a completely non-active task: that every citizen must be perlustrated by the police and knocked off after health status. That is wrong, and that is totally worthless for society, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what the police union has seen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Those Members who support this empowerment law for Mr Mückstein – who, with empowerment, can constantly change the vaccination intervals and the genetic status and drive around, as we have heard – make a serious mistake today. They support the government's break that has categorically excluded that there will be a vaccination obligation, and they support the empowerment for mosquito. [[Call the Greens.]] In fact, they could also take an example of our neighbor Czech Republic, who abolished the vaccination obligation on the grounds that the graves in the population are no longer deepened. You're doing the exact opposite. They prefer to focus on Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, on two Islamic, authoritarian systems. They make a serious mistake, ladies and gentlemen, which as a society we will all regret bitterly. [[Call the Greens.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23644	Mr Amesbauer, for the name and designation of ‘liberary robbers’ and ‘pushors’, which is obviously addressed to individual Members, I shall, of course, give you a call for order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] However, your motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Gerald Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23698	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I am a clear advocate of vaccination, I myself have been vaccinated three times, and I believe that I am a large majority in this House. I belong to the minority of those who will not vote in favour of the vaccination obligation today, and I would like to explain to you why all the arguments for the vaccination obligation have also been balanced in our club. A year ago, all the parties, and also the Health Ministry, unisono promised that there would be no vaccination. You have to be very careful when you break such promises. After all, we must not be surprised if people lose confidence in politicians. We know for sure: For the Omikron wave the vaccination is too late, and for the time after that we do not know much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] In order to ensure that a vaccination obligation is proportionate for the period after that, in order for it to come to a legal conclusion at all, several assumptions must come together. First assumption: There must be another corona variant, which is more aggressive than the omicron variant, because the omicron variant alone does not cause the health system to die. Variants, however, tend to be milder than more aggressive in viruses. Second adoption: Sectionschefin Reich has said that the virus leads to a search. [[call to the FPÖ.]] This must mean, however, that this search does not leave any immunisation effect in the population and, if another variant comes, it affects a medically naïve population that has no basic protection. Accepting this is not realistic. Another third assumption must also be made: that the vaccines we have and use today and in February, March, April, then also use for future variants at all. That's uncertain. Because all of this is uncertain – that this law can prevent an overload of health care – it is a fundamental right intervention on stockpiles. It's overwhelming for me to intervene in fundamental rights right now, for a case you don't even know if it occurs. But above all, and there we are now again at a point that is out of dispute, the Austrian bureaucracy cannot implement it at all. It's not just that the police say: We don't want to do that, and the police union says: We can't do that! – The police controls on the back door also lead to a requirement of identification in everyday life, which we have not known so far in Austria. The sanctions that will be sent to the District Headships will return with tens of thousands of oppositions and result in regular criminal proceedings. The District Head Teams and the Magistrates say: We can't handle this. – The judges of the national administration courts also say: We cannot handle all of this, we need 50 percent more administrative judges to create this flood of foreseeable complaints. – How do you want to get a vaccination obligation on the ground if the authorities do not make it? Then, in 20 paragraphs of this law, seven regulatory powers are provided for, five of them for the Minister of Health. I don't think I have to say anything about the quality of regulations from the Ministry of Health. We have experienced this abundantly over the last two years, and I cannot support it further. They also wonder what you have all the experts for, because you don't listen to them. [[Abg. Deimek: What does Rendi-Wagner say about it?]] Prof. Kollaritsch, one of the upper lockers and lockdowners in this Republic, said: Move the vaccination requirement among the piatrics we now have! – Prof. Novotny, not exactly one who stands for easing, said yesterday in the “ZIB 2” whether Omikron Corona is actually like a flu: Absolutely. – So you introduce a vaccination obligation for a disease that Prof. Novotny says is afterwards like a flu. Prof. Gartlehner, also very on the go on the go on the government side, said that, in view of the omicron variant, one should rethink the vaccination requirement once again. And now a very exciting person who accuses FPÖ, she has a big business interest: the head of Pfizer, Albert Bourla. What did he say on French television? – The Omikron wave is the last wave that makes such restrictions necessary, that will no longer be necessary afterwards. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Aha, the Pfizer chief will not talk about his own business – if it were dangerous, then he would say it – but even he says: Just as it was before, it won't be anymore. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What are you doing? – They now not only introduce a vaccination requirement, but also a vaccination on the same day. So you're pouring out 1 billion euros to people who adhere to a law! Now you get money in Austria when you comply with a law. So how crazy has it become? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] You can also spend money on those who stay at a traffic light with red. They also adhere to the law. I'm very much for vaccination, I've been vaccinated three times. The vaccinations help us, they protect the hospital capacities, the intensive bed capacity from overload, but a vaccination duty does not help. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] It divides society, unnecessarily intervenes in fundamental rights. All politicians have promised: This vaccination is not coming. – Now she's coming, and you're wasting people's confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23779	The next item is Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23816	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! If you hear the two speeches of the critics Amesbauer and Loacker so in a row, you have to say: One of the two has already failed as Mr Amesbauer, that is quite clear. [[Rejoicing and condolences with MEPs from Greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Schrangl: Let's see how well you are!]] A subject has so far not been discussed, and this is Long Covid, a problem and a disease associated with Corona, which will continue to concern us for a very long time. We currently have over 100 000 cases in Austria. It is difficult to call an exact number because the symptoms of this disease – it is not an independent disease, as it is a consequence of Corona – are so different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] There are people who have so heavy muscle cramps that they can't go and are tied to the wheelchair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] There are people whose lungs are so broken that they can't get any more air at all and can't move for that. There are people with neurological problems, concentration problems, attacks of all kinds. There are people with severe signs of exhaustion – I also belong to them. I've probably had this problem for 13 months. I can work half a day like here and follow you. There are days when I hardly get out of bed, and days when after half an hour of work, I simply have to quit and can't stop. That has, and I am one of the milder cases, currently 100,000 people. Long Covid develops 10 to 15 percent of the Corona Falls. If two million people in Austria are unvaccinated and someone demands that they simply run into this disease, then 200 000 to 300 000 long-covid cases, 200 000 to 300 000 people who may be unable to work for up to a year must be hospitalized. In fact, I am at least interested in all the costs that are constantly charged there; but this cannot be afforded by the system. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Research is still under way. You don't even know how long it will take and how much it gets chronic. However, in the studies it is very clear that with a severe course of Corona one has a much greater risk of developing Long Covid or heavy Long Covid. 75 percent of the cases of severe Long Covid also had severe corona symptoms. That's why the vaccination is so important, already alone to mitigate it, for the next, the next year, or as long as that takes. That is why we need the hundreds of thousands of cases of Corona, which will come despite everything, to be mild. [[Abg. Stefan: What about the Herbert Kickloder?]] Because I hear again and again: The second vaccination does not bring any sterile immunity, but you can still develop the disease. – Yes, that’s right, you can still develop it – but if you have a motorcycle accident, you can hit your head and die of it. That's why there's a helmet duty. You can have an accident with a helmet and still hurt your knee, which is true, but to say that the helmet does not use anything if you can hurt your knee is not necessarily the most common argument, right? [[Abg. Deimek: Not every stupid comparison fits!]] [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Does the helmet affect physical integrity?]] That's why I'd ask all the people who watch now and maybe think about it, to be vaccinated. It'll help. Do you know what's so bizarre about all the arguments I've heard about this – the loss of freedom and anything else? Do you know who introduced the helmet obligation in Austria in 1985, 1986? – The red and blue government; with the FPÖ. The helmet requirement is not about protection from infection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] You've got the people who've been driving the motorcycle, and they've wanted to let the hair blow, who said: That's my freedom, taken freedom. To protect them and protect their health, you have introduced a duty and cut the rights of these people. [[Abg. Stefan: Great comparison! Great comparison!]] That's what you did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] It is also perfectly normal that the state protects people, introduces a duty to protect people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] This is not at all a loss of freedom and no dictatorial act at all. They even do it with people who don't endanger others, and we do it with people who can spread a virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23970	Mrs Verena Nussbaum's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e23991	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The number of new infections is currently increasing rapidly due to the omicron wave. We already know this scenario, but not to that extent. In the past two years we have been stumbled from one wave to the next and from one lockdown to the next. The Federal Government has always put in place very short-term measures to prevent the collapse of our health care. The lockdown was almost always the only way out to stop the rise in new infections. From this point of view, I have repeatedly criticised the fact that the Federal Government is acting without a target in pandemic management and is only setting out short-term measures that have often been over-dated on a daily basis. Conclusion: This federal government has clearly failed in pandemic management. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At present, we can see this failure even in the tests, in the PCR tests in the federal states – I always say: except for Vienna, here it works – and also in the school tests for almost two weeks [[Abg. Michael Hammer: doesn't work in Burgenland either!]] There's nothing left. These test structures are almost collapsing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] So there you see again: It's about a permanent failure, and that's increasing more and more. The fact that the German government has already declared the pandemic to be finished twice has also led to the fact that the Austrian population no longer has any confidence. What was the consequence? – Too few people have been vaccinated. The rate of vaccination remains far too low, including the rate of boosting. In the meantime, we know: That's just not enough to end this pandemic and lead our normal life again. Today, we have the opportunity to decide, as the last resort, a vaccination obligation to return to normal life. We take responsibility for this because we say that we need a broad immunization of the population to protect the vulnerable groups in our society and to prevent further deaths, whether due to a covid disease, whether due to untimely medical care. As always, we as SPÖ are in favour of a solid and just health system in which access to good care is ensured for all people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From the current point of view, we will only be able to maintain this necessary infrastructure in Austria and prevent further lockdowns. Today, however, we also decide on the implementation of this law. Today, we also decide to impose sanctions when refusing vaccination. In order to be able to carry out these criminal proceedings properly, it is necessary that human and financial resources are available, in particular in countries, municipalities and administrative courts, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of criminal proceedings. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Grebien.]] [[17:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24121	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24145	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! There has already been talk of science hostility. [[The speaker holds up the book “Project Lightspeed” by Joe Miller with Özlem Tureci and Uğur Łahin.]] That is why I would like to start with this book that you should really read urgently. Özlem Tureci and Uğur Łahin, both are the couple of researchers who worked for Biontech to invent this MRNA vaccine. They weren't the only ones. Others also researched for it. When you read this, you get much more security than by what you heard from the FPÖ. They've been working on it for 30 years. You know exactly what they're doing. More important is: They work at the same time on the healing of cancer, possibly also a vaccination against it. What these two people and many others have done and continue to do is to improve our lives, to improve the lives of our children; because there is science because they are so good because they are so good and because this guy, who has come to his father's Ford plant in Cologne from Turkey, today is so brilliant and has found a woman who is equally brilliant. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens]] Many other scientists in the world do. I am so grateful to them, just as I am grateful to the men and women in the hospitals who have really done inhumane things – overhuman things! [[Abg. Matznetter: Overhuman!]] That's where we agree. Next point: If you read this, you know: That's not gene therapy. Please stop it! No genes are changed. I know that's a funny joke, that you say, Be happy when your genes are changed! - No, it's not gene therapy. It's something else, and it works. Now I'm at the next point: Yes, many of us are struggling to accept this bill. I have read a lot about this, last but not least an interview with Dr. Fauci, Mr. Kickl! He said this week in the “spiegel” interview about immunely weakened people: “We must [...] make sure that immunely weakened people are vaccinated; and we must give them antibodies to protect them from infection.” This is the next point, and it moves me so much: We will only get out of this pandemic if we do so together, in solidarity as a society. This means that people have to be vaccinated, or there will be a lot of sick people. Dear Michel Reimon, I have listened to you, and it also moves me, of course, and I hear this story that they suffer from Long Covid, also from others – with all due respect: also from younger people. On the contrary, I do not wish for anyone to do so. I don't want that to happen to more people. I have, like you all, received many emails from many people. There are some that I can hardly identify with, but there were also fearful people there. And the next point is: Let us not make people more afraid, please beautiful, but let us give them the assurance that we will try with science and with care in the hospitals to get out of this pandemic – and certainly not by making people even more afraid! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] However, many people write that they are waiting for this dead vaccine. I am not a scientist, I cannot judge it, but I ask you, Minister of State: If it is true that this deadly vaccine also works by these two companies, please take this into account as well. You have the opportunity to do so in the regulation, and I would also like to do so in a massive way, because there are a lot of people waiting for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] In my group, we are largely in favour of vaccination. I have to say that I have also been hard hit because so much has been missed. When the vaccination was finally there, I had conversations and asked: Can't we make this popular together? – The government was not interested in it. At that time, apparently the one against the other was still very consciously played out. I note that something has changed, and I am very happy about it. Now I'm with Colleagues Loacker: We have debated this internally, and I am very grateful for all these discussions, including our club woman. You said that many people might now lose confidence in politics. The way in which we have debated this internally, the fact that there are different opinions there and there, and that I hope that we will deal with it in solidarity, can strengthen confidence in politics again. If we also openly admit our doubts when we openly admit – including you, dear government – that mistakes have been made, then this terrible crisis may even lead to something good. I'd like to. One last appeal to the so-called vaccines: Please stop demonstrating in front of hospitals or even in front of kindergartens! It's immense! [[Congratulations with NEOS, ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Let us leave people alone and try to get out of this difficult situation together for a common, solidary Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24215	Mrs Pia Philippa Strachezu. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24239	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! What way out of this crisis is the right one? This question concerns all of us here in this room for a very long time. Today's sitting is actually just a formal matter, and the decision has basically been taken for a long time. Many people are shattered by the corona situation, are nervous in the end, have a lot economically, if not even lost everything. The vast majority of the people in this country have willingly taken any action to finally get out of this crisis. So many people have gone to their borders in this crisis and many have gone beyond that in order to cope with this crisis in order to re-establish this crisis together. Many of them may have lost their confidence in politics and, above all, in political actors, but have nevertheless taken all measures to counter the crisis. What has remained of more than two years of pandemic? – Basically relatively little. The trust is gone, the fears prevail on both sides, and Corona sets the course almost in the month. Therefore, the question should also be asked: Is this vaccination mandatory at the present time a surplus measure or is it justified? Is it targeting to actually push a million people into vaccination in this way? The concept of human dignity has often been popular today. “The dignity of man is untouchable”, is actually a sentence with a lot of scope. The protection of fundamental rights is untouchable. But now you've crossed this red line, you've been over it. That really has to enchant every democrat, not only here in this house, but in principle, an ungood feeling in the stomach area. Would we not have been able to use the last few weeks and, above all, the summer to free the people from their fears? If we had not been able to explain to people that vaccination is the most effective way out of this crisis, that vaccination, immunization is a very important key to this crisis, that the vaccination is just how announced will the promised game changer be? Did you really give everything for that? - No, you don't! The popularity of the FSME vaccination is a success model from Austria. You did the same thing back then. The experts have moved to the communities and have done educational work. I am quite sure that we would have found many doctors who would have been willing to do this educational work, so as not to give these fears and populist ideas the scope. Just at this point in time, I think it is fatal to introduce a vaccination obligation, because people are again suggested that this would put an end to the pandemic, although we cannot all say what the situation around Corona will be like in autumn. The steps of the government parties to get control of the situation through a duty to do so, particularly one: a loss of control that has occurred; Failures in communication, failure when it comes to contacting the population when it comes to real living and not letting the information work be ground. Splitting is another issue that needs to be discussed very urgently. At the moment, another game changer, Omikron, is out of focus. Many experts have already said that Omikron is setting the course. That's not what you've evaluated. Is not a duty basically the last step a democracy can take? Then what is left of us as a means of printing? – In fact, we are only left with the compulsion. I would have liked a way in which it would have been possible to take every person in this country the fear of vaccination, to give people the opportunity to resort to a dead vaccine. After all, 40 percent of the unvaccinated population would have been willing to be vaccinated with a dead vaccine. But no, one does not continue to evaluate, once again one sends a law that is legally on very wacky legs, and that, as soon as it ends up at the Constitutional Court, I think, is tilted, because there is a question mark. I am absolutely in favour of vaccination, because I am firmly convinced that this will not only create a protection against viruses, but also that it will make it possible to significantly mitigate the symptoms of disease and to protect the unvaccinated part of the population as much as possible. However, I am also firmly convinced that what has already been done in this crisis should not be repaired with an incorrect law on vaccination, but that we should do everything we can to approach each other as far as possible. A good way would have been to re-evaluate. A good way would have been to introduce a vaccine, possibly similar to that of the Climate Council, in which skeptics and advocates would succeed in getting to a table. Also a later start in April would have been feasible in the autumn, and this would have been a good step towards maintaining peace in this country. I would nevertheless like to express my solidarity with all the people who are involved in these measures and also in the hope of improving these measures. I would also like to thank the executive, for all the people who work in system-related professions and are now faced with considerable additional work. However, I also rely on the VfGH or on the fact that this vaccination obligation will not keep so and is away with it. But now is gone, I think, unfortunately also confidence in the population, and unfortunately this also destroys your parabola. I do not know if I am the only Democrat in this room who does not want to lose the relation to the population, who does not want to leave and eliminate people with their fears alone. I do not want the division to continue in society, but I would like us to succeed in building bridges politically at the political level and, above all, from this high house, and not leaving room for populists. Politics lives from the heart with which one makes politics, and in the end the population of the winners must always be. That must also be the case in a pandemic. No one should be able to play with the fears of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24318	Mr Dietmar Keckzu is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24343	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I end up with what the first speaker started with. Herbert Kickl has made himself, and his first sentence was, he is “rejected”, he is “tolerated”, he is “shattered” and he is angry. I, too, my Ladies and gentlemen, I am horrified: I am horrified when coronaleugners appear in front of kindergartens and hoards and yell at four or five-year-old children in their megaphones: Masks down! Your parents will kill you with this syringe! – Ladies and gentlemen, I am horrified when we have such a situation here in Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I am unscrupulous when campaigns are being carried out here in Austria when the members of the Health Committee receive thousands of e-mails – for these were campaigns that were deliberately launched – and we are threatened with death in these e-mails when they say: Nuremberg Tribunal 2.0, before that you will be presented! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a situation that has only arisen because a Mr Kickl speaks of a “fleet government” in his demonstrations and says that we are folding in this Parliament; then they all trust to stand up! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr. Kickl, take back your statements! I'm just telling you, because what you've done will be very, very difficult to repair again! If these people then write that we didn't ask ourselves that we had no idea of the whole situation, then I have to say: I'm always called the same five experts in these e-mails. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I have talked to many experts, we have discussed, we have looked at the situation, and I will vote today according to best knowledge and conscience. I will vote with Yes for a vaccination obligation because I am deeply convinced that this is the right way for us in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Shattered, ladies and gentlemen – I am also massively shaken! I come together with many people who are the hardest of the hard ones who say: Only 10 percent of the hard people get through, and if you don't have a short-sleeved body in winter, you're weak anyway. [[Abg. Deimek: Maybe you should go somewhere else!]] – I had an intense conversation with a person like that, he refused the vaccination. He's got Covid, he's been on the intensive care station for three weeks, then he's dead. I had to keep the convocation at his funeral, ladies and gentlemen, there was the coffin on the left of me, and before me his wife and his three children were sitting. They cried and always said: Why? Why? – I would have preferred to say: Because he didn't get shot, because if he had got the vaccination, he'd still be alive! [[Abg. Kassinger:... Bullshit!]] But because these fakeews are spiriting around in the social media, because it is said to help deworms for horses and also help a lot of vitamin C, I assume that he believed it. I assume that he came across these charlataneries, and that's why he died. There's another case, ladies and gentlemen, someone who just came to see me recently. He cried when he was there, and he said he didn't know if he could keep himself in his job. Long Covid has already been mentioned: He can no longer take two or three steps and is afraid of his job. We assured him that he'll keep his job, because we'll see that he won't lose it. But these are exactly the results of these hatreds that arise in the non-social media – because social media can no longer be said. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I am very angry, ladies and gentlemen, if even more oil is poured into the fire if we continue to try to bring about a division in the population. I can only say: Let's get to the beginnings! Let's get to the beginnings! This has already happened in the 1930s, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Now we have again...!]] [[Call the FPÖ:... National Socialism!]] I would now like to put the following motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[17:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24609	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and has been read and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gerald Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24644	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! I have deliberately waited for the arguments that come from the four system parties today, who introduce a vaccination obligation, although they have promised the Austrian population not to introduce a vaccination obligation. [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ]] I've been waiting for some additional arguments to come up with: Nothing has come – nothing that has convinced me in the first place! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] They're bringing the argument: Stop the restrictions on freedom, no more lockdowns! – Well, look at Sweden, there never was a lockdown there! So not the virus is the problem, but the problem is the fact-finding policy of this government that has sent the population into four lockdowns! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, it's a shame: Nobody, no speaker of the system parties has said today a word for a permanent lockdown for the unvaccinated, the one that has been in this government since 15. To be excluded from the social life of November! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a shame, you don't care about this group of people! Mr Mückstein, you say all the vaccinations are safe – now we have shown you in the House in the last half year that the vaccinations are not safe! In the course of the discussions on Monday, an expert said that the vaccine side effects were rare, harmless and unscrupulous – on the other hand, a letter of about 200, 250 doctors who had been in charge of the side effects in an open letter to the doctor's chamber is written: “The number of adverse reactions reported in the COVID-19 vaccines can only be described as frightening”. – In the letter of the doctors one reads of terrifying side effects, and the Minister’s statement: There's no one! For the x-th time – and we would like to pay attention to this finding that we are presenting these statistics to you for the x-th time – we are showing this, which is also important and correct for history. [[a table with a table entitled “Deaths and side effects close to the COVID vaccination – reported to the EMA” on the speaker’s desk]] [[Abg. Loacker:... still wrong!]] - Stop yelling in between! Look If you are interested in these facts, please: Only 6 percent of the side effects and deaths are reported to the EMA, and these are shocking! ==References== January 20 957 deaths were reported at a reporting rate of 6 percent. Please note! A total of 1,354,000 side effects were reported, including 586,000 serious side effects and 119,000 longer hospital stays! Think, too, of those people who have trusted in politics who have been vaccinated and are now suffering from these side effects! If you calculate this percentage, then we are well over 20 million! Mr Minister, listen to me! We are still going to talk about Fakenevs today, and Mr Minister, I can now show you a kind of fakeevs myself. [[Abg. Loacker: Here you are an expert!]] I have addressed a parliamentary question to you – I find it very rude that the Minister should not be careful! [[Federal Minister Mückstein speaks to the Abg. Vogluwer.]] Mr Minister, the answer to my parliamentary question was given to me on 10 October. Get it on December – please be careful! –: You're talking about fake, but you know what? – This answer is the fake! As a parliamentarian, we cannot even rely on an answer to a question. [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Prammer.]] I asked the following, Minister: “Is the Corona pandemic in the countries ended with a high rate of vaccination?” – That would be the prerequisite here and today. They say we should increase the vaccination rate to 90 percent so that the pandemic is over. What do you have on the 10th? Answered December? – I quote, Minister, you say: ‘Numbers from Portugal show that a high rate of vaccination leads to a low incidence and contributes significantly to the fight against pandemic.’ Are you okay, please?- Oh, my God! – Do you lead Portugal and say that is proof, 90 percent vaccination rate and hardly any infections? [[Call the Greens: Of course! Yes!]] Know how high the number of infections in Portugal was on the 10th. - Yes was? – There were 239,000 infections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The 7th day incidence is 2 643, at a vaccination rate of 90 percent. Now drive the Austrian population to the syringe with this argumentation. So please stop giving me fake directions if you already lie to the Austrian population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the poor Africans [[a table with a bar chart entitled “Part of the vaccinated persons: Europe – Africa” on the speaker’s desk]] They do me crazy – under quotations – “pity”. In Africa it is so – please look at that, everyone out there, appreciated listeners! –: In Africa, there are 9.9 percent full of immunized people. If you were to believe your narrative, Minister, then you would have to think that there are now the highest numbers of deaths in Africa and a terrifying scenario about which the WHO wrote a year and a half ago. Do you know how it looks? – They persistently refuse to look at the facts from Africa. That's terrifying. You'll hide it. Do you know what it looks like with a total immunization of 9.9 percent in relation to Europe with 62 percent? [[Call the Greens.]] I'll tell you, Minister. This chart summarises the deaths. [[a table with a curved diagram entitled ‘Covid-19 Death Cases: Europe – Africa’ on the speaker’s desk]] I'll tell you: In Europe it has until the end of the day 9. January 1 555,000 Covid-19 deaths in population of 748 million. Africa has 1 341 000 000 inhabitants and had 230 000 deaths until that date. [[Call the Greens.]] This is 0.011% relative to the population. In Europe, the percentage is 20 times higher, it is 0.22 percent. So what's going on, please? – The increase in the vaccination rate does not work at all. It brings exactly what is to be seen throughout Europe: The higher the vaccination rate, the higher the number of infections. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Finally, I tell you one more thing – although you do not like it – because you also say that the vaccinations protect you from serious history and deaths: [[placing a table entitled ‘Covid-19 Death Cases UK after vaccination status’ on the speaker’]] When are you finally looking at the numbers of the British Health Authority? When are you finally looking at this? – Gerald Hauser has been standing out here for half a year and says: Look at the numbers! The UK Health Authority always publishes these figures with the same consequence, for example: In the last three weeks before Christmas, 70 percent of the 100 percent of people who died in England were immunised, 30 percent were non-vaccinated. That's exactly the opposite of what you're saying. So: Strike it down! Estimated government, mainstream parties, finally stop providing the population with false information! Finally, we reject our facts and make what is necessary to implement Plan B of the Freedom Party! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24797	I am now not reporting any more a contribution to debate, so I am asking the report whether a final word has been requested. - That's not the case. That concludes the debate. As agreed, I shall put the vote to the vote. [[18:03:35]] 9. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2147/A(E) by Mr Philip Kucher, Members of Parliament, on a broad-ranging, low-level information and information campaign on the protection of corona (1315, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2149/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24843	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mario Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24874	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from today's ORF Upper Austria: “Demo in front of children’s hort in Linz”, “At the demonstration against the vaccination obligation on Wednesday in Linz, the participants besieged a children’s hort – apparently because they had discovered students with masks behind the windows. The result: numerous crying and frightened children. [...] The hort was sounded by a megaphone and a pipe concerto. Parents who turned to the ORF Upper Austria reported that ‘Your parents kill you with the vaccination’, for example. [...] In the hort, the staff has now been busy calming scared and crying children – most between six and ten years of age –.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this has finally exceeded a red line. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I can't. If children have to fear, parents are attacked, workers are attacked in the health system, Sanis no longer attract their uniforms because they are afraid, then this has nothing to do with a democratic discourse, ladies and gentlemen. These attacks must be condemned by all of us. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the government has already contributed to the uncertainty of the people in Austria. I remind you: We had a vaccination campaign when we had no vaccine; Federal Chancellors Kurz declared the pandemic to be over; then sometime this oberösterreichish election campaign has come in between; Head of State Haslauer dissuades doctors and scientists; from the test chaos – with the exception of the Federal Capital of Vienna – not at all to talk. Or – because the Minister of Education is here now –: As we could also know, on 10 October, that was the first time. Are the schools locked up again? Or: The government wants to force our students to do the oral matura also in the hospital, if necessary. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is total failure in the pandemic fight. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will be time for a national-wide professional information and education campaign, a campaign against fakenews, multilingual, for the different age groups and for various target groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: Voices Therefore, you have to submit your request to us. Andreas Babler, mayor of Traiskirchen, has proposed low-level measures: 87 percent of the vaccination rate for over 12 years. Dear Andi Babler, warm congratulation! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, dear Austrians and dear Austrians, let yourself be vaccinated! Protect yourself and your loved ones – and because I did not say it the last time, Madam President, I say it today – so that we can finally leave this shit pandemic behind us!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24942	Mr Lindner, with all understanding of an emotional debate – and that is why you obviously looked at me a short while ago –: This is a choice of words that does not serve the objective debate. That's why I give you a call for order. I don't want to repeat it. I suppose you know what I mean. Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e24980	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! On this item on the agenda, we actually have two quite opposite requests for negotiation. One says we do too little; they assume that you have to do more. The others would like us not to do anything more. Mario Lindner has just carried out very verbally, why it is necessary that we go to vaccination. He has said a lot of words about what it takes. I can understand one or the other. In the summer of this year, I myself, together with other politicians in this House, pointed out that it would have needed more in the countries and municipalities in particular, that it would have needed vaccines that would have gone out, but that there should have been just as fewer testing offers there and there and more vaccination offers, a low-skilled information offer et cetera. Well, the situation is how it is, and there we all have to get together, I think, on the nose. This is not a matter which the government has done on its own, but as has already been said, the countries and the municipalities have been on board. There has been a very clear division of tasks. One is the strategy and the issue of procurement; that is what the federal government has done. The other is the question of vaccination, of bringing it to the man, to the woman; that was the matter of the countries and the municipalities. I'm sure there's a lot better. I think the last few weeks have also shown us that it's better because the wheels are really working together, because Gecko is doing very well to eliminate these uncertainties, these inaccuracies in the vote with each other. In the meantime, therefore, we are much better off on the road, as far as vaccination et cetera is concerned, and we also have a corresponding vaccination progress that we need. But – this is the other side, so to speak – we also have a request for a so-called Plan B here, and I can only repeat again: This plan B, which is a supposed alternative to us, is not an alternative. This Plan B assumes that we do not need any measures in the final effect, that Covid is not a problem at all. That's not a plan. But, it's a plan at the end of pure Darwinism, because it's just more about the fact that those who are fittest survive it, and the others have had bad luck. In reality, this is a support programme for the dissemination of Long Covid. We have heard it today, my previous speaker Michel Reimon has already done this very well. It is above all a destabilisation programme for health care, and it is still the attempt to sell alternative facts here once again as science, although alternative facts cannot be science, even from the definition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A last sentence perhaps on the agenda item before which Mr Hauser was now out as the last speaker and has once again said things: That reminds me a little of Pippi's long-span. I am a big fan of Pippi Langstrumff, but as it is said in this song: “I make the world, across the world as I like it,” so did my colleague Hauser – very impressive, very verbal, but therefore not more correct, but, quite the contrary, just bad and wrong. [[Abg. Hauser: Decline the facts!]] Finally, I would like to join my colleagues, Mr Lindner. I am not going to say that I do not want to file an order now, but, Mr Lindner, you are of course right in your assessment of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25026	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25047	Madam President. High house! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Last Monday we discussed these two requests, and the request for an information campaign by SPÖ was rejected. We welcome the government's rethinking after today's agreement with the SPÖ on an information campaign. For design: This campaign should now be raised in a targeted and efficient manner. Instead of reaching people themselves, however, money is burned in great style, and the communities receive a bonus for vaccination rates. We see that there are still a lot of absurd theses for vaccination in the room and many people are insecure. Yes, many people have prediseases, are chronically ill and have inflammation disorders and therefore fear of vaccination. They don't need them. Doctoral chamber, which exerts pressure on doctors, but proper, fact-based information. If you are not impracticable, you also need to be able to notice that easily. Last Friday, the Ministry of Health said in an answer to a question that it was not intended to make that visible in a green pass. However, this will lead to extremely laborious discussions for many people if any business owner or restaurant owner does not know what such a confirmation looks like. We will need the regulations on vaccination and exceptions, and we are pleased that we will discuss them properly in the main committee. Let us also remember, however, that we must always communicate all these rules in time and transparency, and that we must also give patients and doctors a tool to do so, so that no one is discriminated against by mistake! Make it easier for people with clear information offers and uniform implementation, and ensure the right vaccinations! On Monday, Mr Saxinger requested that we postpone our request and said that we no longer need vaccinations, but that the lack of vaccination is the problem. But one is related to the other. Bring the vaccinations not only in supermarkets and vaccination streets, but also take the vaccinations where people get medical advice: to the pharmacies! Put the information there, and give the now 1,500 pharmacists, who are ready and trained, the best way to vaccinate these people right there! When we immunize in the pharmacies, we can also relieve the vaccination streets, drive back and put the money we save there in the information campaigns. In this sense, I would now like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Thank you also in sign language:]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25201	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. I now have a word on an actual correction. Please, Mr Kaniak.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25230	Madam President. Mr Schalmeiner has said out here that the plan B required by FPÖ is really not a plan, includes the removal of all measures and would endanger the Austrian health system. I'm actually correcting: Plan B calls for a comprehensive survey of immunity status in the Austrian population. Plan B calls for an expansion and flexibility of treatment capacities in Austrian healthcare to prevent overload. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Plan B calls for an early and comprehensive use of new covid-therapeutics also in the established area. And Plan B also calls for strengthening and expanding the health authorities. However, it definitely does not demand an end to all measures and, of course, does not pose a threat to the Austrian health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25263	Mr President, this was, of course, at the border of a political assessment and also a speech contribution. Mrs Diesner-Wais is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25288	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the National Council! Oh, my God! ==References== The first people in Austria were vaccinated on December 20, 2020. A year later, we have more than 16 million vaccinations. As a result, many deaths and many hospital stays could be prevented. Last year, 30 people have been vaccinated per minute, and I say thank you for that. It has therefore been so well done because all of them have joined together and also held together. We in Lower Austria have a truly comprehensive and low-swelling range of vaccines, ranging from the doctor of trust, from the vaccination road to the establishments and the vaccines that tour all over the country, in all communities. Thank you very much to all those who are involved! Thanks to the doctors, the medics, the people of the Red Cross, the communities, the bras for all of them making a contribution! With regard to the request made by Mr Kucher on the information and information campaign, I would like to say that the Gecko is responsible for designing and launching a campaign for information; specific information measures on the vaccination of children, young people and the corrections of fakenews have already been decided. Unfortunately, many people believe what is being spread in social media, but it is sometimes a dangerous nonsense. Some false contents are easily recognized because of their pulsation, and others need to look more closely so that one realizes that this is a false report. Under the cover of freedom of expression, conspiracy theories are spread and enemy images about scientists are built up. As hairthrowing as these may sound, many people really believe them. In the social media, violence is also often aroused, we now see this in the case of outcrops in front of kindergartens and also in the case of health facilities. I am very sorry that we now have to set up protection zones. That is, I think, a sad chapter. The fact is, however, that we need to detach these false messages and bring target group-oriented information to people. Of course, I am also pleased that there is now a wide-ranging vaccination campaign in which many ideas from the different parties are involved. There is now an incentive system for the communities and a vaccination. There already exists a broad set of measures, which is already covered by this proposal. Now I would like to refer briefly to the FPÖ's request, to Plan B, which is merely to call for all measures to be terminated and thus to restrict the pandemic. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Maybe it would be better if you read it again and then say something!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I say that would only cause an overload of the health system. In today's time when the number of infections is rising again, this proposal is irresponsible, and therefore we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25386	Mrs Bedrana Ribo has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25408	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We've heard a lot about the pandemic today. We have heard a lot about the vaccination, about the vaccination requirement, about Covid et cetera; in fact, we have been dealing with the subject again and again for almost two years. I believe there has been no single meeting in this House since March 2020, in which the issue of pandemic or corona was not on the agenda; and I would also like to stay in 2020. April 2020: I don't know how many of you remember it, some of you – sometimes – probably seem as if it was eternal, but yes, that was the first lockdown. The first lockdown: We were all very unsure. We didn't know what was happening to us. We were scared. How's it going? What we were hoping for was a vaccination, a vaccine, something that could be used against the pandemic. And then – I will never forget that – in December 2020, this picture came out. I'm showing it again now; I think this picture says more than anything else: [[Keeping a panel in height, on which a photo of Christoph Wenisch can be seen during his first Covid-19 vaccination]] This picture shows Dr. Christoph Wenisch, who was one of the first people in Austria to receive the vaccination. – This picture, this balled fist, this one: We finally did it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, a little more than a year later, we stand here and discuss the vaccination obligation or introduce the vaccination obligation. That is why it is necessary because very many people are not allowed to be vaccinated. That is why it is necessary because the vaccination rate unfortunately – unfortunately! – is still very low. We can't face the pandemic with this. Many – yes, many – are afraid of vaccination, and I say it again here: I understand these people, I was also afraid of vaccination; I am really not dancing and singing in the vaccination road. I spoke to my doctor before, then to the internist, but I did it. I have been given a vaccination, not just for me – for my mom, who is a risk patient, for my children and for my fellow human beings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Give this to the others too!]] Often, very often we have heard here today that the pandemic can only be fought together – yes, together, but not with requests like those made by Mr Belakovich, who is on the agenda today, which calls for all measures to be terminated; and this, please, at a time when we are reporting almost 30 000 newly infected per day. You have to let that go through your head, that's crazy! This demand is simply crazy at that time. Mr Kaniak was here at the speaker's desk to explain the plan B again. The Plan B appears to contain everything but not the vaccination; actually everything else. The most important thing that helps us against this pandemic is vaccination, and in this plan B the vaccination is not available. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would be negligent to accept such a request. I finish my speech again with an appeal to all, to all people in Austria: Think of your fellow human beings, let yourself be vaccinated! The vaccination protects and the vaccination works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25465	There is now a word for an actual correction. Mr Kaniak, I would like to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure. It is not about political assessments, it is about a matter which you clarify. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25490	Thank you, Madam President, for the suggestion. Ladies and gentlemen Diesner-Wais and now also Mrs Ribo have once again claimed that Plan B, which is called for, calls for all measures to be repealed. In addition, Mrs Ribo has claimed that vaccination is not required but rejected. I'm actually correcting: Plan B calls for an end to the German Federal Government's Covid-19 regime, not the end of all measures, quite the contrary. [[Abg. Ribo: All measures! All measures!]] The one point I have forgotten in my previous actual correction, which is also part of Plan B, is the targeted protection of risk groups, and on this point, Mrs Ribo, there is also a need for voluntary vaccination as a measure from our side. [[New call for tender Ribo]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25530	As the next speaker, Mr Philip Kucher has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25565	I recognise a certain parallel between Mr Kaniak and Mr Diesner-Wais. [[Abg. Singer: Set it down!]] Both would mean: If you had been listening to the SPÖ a little earlier, some things would have been saved from us. [[Abg. Caniak: Do I have to correct you again?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Now that the FPÖ is at once for a strengthening of the health care system, almost a bit is a staircasenwitz. I just want to remind you, please: You were the ones who grabbed the health system like a christmas gans. Hartinger-Klein – I don't want to start there at all – the cash registers that AUVA clears up and crushes the Directorate-General for Public Health – you have to come up with the idea once! [[Abg. Stefan:...but today only quoted!]] I am not one who now wants to defend my colleague, Mr Anschober, but he has stood in a pandemic in the ministry and the central section was abolished. That was a measure of Hartinger-Klein. [[Abg. Kaniak:... went into retirement and was not reoccupied! Don't tell any nonsense, please!]] You didn't do anything in the care department either. I am very pleased if you are now getting tougher if the FPÖ now also discovers its heart for care and a little so to speak tries to include SPÖ's health demands. [[Abg. Deimek: This calls again after an actual correction!]] But it was the FPÖ, which has broken a lot in the social and health sphere, which has broken down cash registers; until today we are looking for the patient billion – Hartinger-Klein lets you greet, with her she was very close. [[Abg. Caniak: Don't talk so much nonsense, please!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Diesner-Wais: It is welcome that the ÖVP has yet to be convinced that, of course, there is also a need for a positive incentive to increase the rate of vaccination – that is to say to welcome – but, after a few minutes ago you had to admit the failure of the German government's corona policy, and the ÖVP was really, really on the way, just a few minutes later to return and claim how great the vaccination campaigns work in Austria and that the SPÖ's request is therefore unnecessary, that's a little bit of stairs for all appreciation. Just a few minutes ago, you had to face up to your failure, brought Austria into a very difficult situation and then put yourself back and judged the opposition. For this reason I would like to thank, for example, the request made by Mrs Kaniak, who is always working for the pharmacists, in this case together with Mr Kaniak. There are, therefore, quite a few proposals that are important; and the EIA would be well advised to take the right measures before, so that we do not have any problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25680	Actual correction: Mr Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25704	Madam President. MEP Kucher has just claimed that the FPÖ would have smashed the health insurance funds by 2017 and 2019. I'm actually correcting: We've merged them. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Kucher also claimed that we had also broken down the Public Health Directorate in the Ministry of Health. I'm actually correcting: The person in charge has retired. Federal Minister Anschober simply missed the post-occupying.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25746	So, I do not want to tighten the Rules of Procedure any more. [[Abg. Kaniak: That's not up to us!]] [[Abg. Deimek: If they tell so much nonsense, we're almost nothing left!]] It is no longer a speaker, which would be possible for any political assessment and is a correct parliamentary instrument. No one has made any mention of this. That concludes the debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - No, that's not the case. As agreed, I shall also refer this vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[18:29:03]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Health Committee report on the Government template (1289, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Medicines Act and the Genetics Act (1317 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25792	This is the 11th time we've reached the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25819	Madam President. High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I actually wanted to do it very briefly, I just have to say to my colleagues Kaniak: You did it yourself. You broke down the Directorate-General for Public Health in the Ministry of Health with Hartinger-Klein. [[Abg. Kickl: Mrs Rendi-Wagner has remained guilty of the pandemic plan!]] You did that, and you just have to take on this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The item on the agenda is now quite clear: It is about genetic engineering, the pharmaceutical law, European regulations. Unfortunately, the level of protection currently in force is not respected. We want this level to be respected. Unfortunately, you have not included the statements of the Constitutional Service, the Pharmacy Chamber and the Chamber of Workers in your text. There is no legal status for the Ethics Commissions, you have not taken over the cancellation right of the participants in clinical trials, and you have above all done one thing: You have an approval fiction in this bill, which means: If the authority does not decide, it automatically enters into force. – This cannot be the case in the case of a genetic engineering topic, and therefore we will refuse the approval of this novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25860	The next item is the speech by Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25884	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! In the last days and weeks, I think we've got one e-mail with each other. In these e-mails, among other things, it has been claimed several times that the vaccination is a so-called gene therapy. would act and we would act with GMOs, i.e. genetically modified organisms. I would like to make it clear in my speech that of course this is not the case. The MRNA vaccination or vaccination with an MRNA vaccine is not a gene therapy, and it is not a GMO either; it is not actually a GMO alone from the definition of gene therapy. The opportunity to mention this should be used here, however, because many of these e-mails have arrived in connection with the novelle of the genetic engineering law and the pharmaceutical law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's this about? – Mr Stöger has cut it very briefly: It is about the fact that until recently we had some sort of triglycity in the Medicines Act in connection with genetic therapy or just with clinical studies on genetic engineering, in this combination: On the one hand, we have an EU directive which regulates this issue, on the other hand, we have the Medicines Act, and the third pillar, if you want, is the Genetics Act. Now one has just gone here and has united the whole thing so that the laws are no longer contradictory to each other without changing the high level of Austrian protection. There is, of course, still a precautionary offer, which is contained in § 1 para. 1 of the Genetic Engineering Act is anchored and ensures that this applies in this context. Of course, it remains the safety level for the examiners. It is also further clarified that, for example, according to § 64 GTG no intervention in the human germination can be made. All these things are, of course, still guaranteed and will continue to be guaranteed. It is really a matter of voting three legal instruments with each other in such a way that they are just coherent and that they provide security – on the one hand, for those concerned, on the other hand for the researching companies. A final sentence – because I see that Mr Kaniak, of course also as a representative of the pharmacists, is already on the way to the speaker's desk: The question that still arose on Monday regarding the additional testing competence of the Ages is also well explained in the meantime, as I find. In the future, the Ages can also examine pharmacies further if there is a suspicion of unlicensed drug production. This is quite far from what Mr Kaniak said on Monday in the Health Committee: now, as it were, the poor pharmacists in Austria have to carry out additional tests. – This happens only if there are black sheep, if there are justified suspicions. In this sense: I ask for broad consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25932	Mr Gerhard Kaniak has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e25954	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Unfortunately, we have here again a very large collection of various legislative changes, which have been introduced by the Federal Government very briefly, apparently in the wind shadow of the Vaccination Act, and which have received over 40 000 opinions in the review process, very critical statements – my predecessors have already noted this – also from the Constitutional Service, from the Pharmacy Chamber and from other institutions such as the Chamber of Labour. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister and the Federal Government have not yet brought forward a proposal for an amendment to address the concerns. Among other things, the pharmaceutical law not only provides for the re-installation of the ethics commissions – in which we really seriously doubt whether they are actually so independent and whether what is then decided there can still be fought legally in any form. There are also paragraphs inside, such as the direct purchase of medicinal products by employed veterinarians – a paradigm break in the distribution of medicines, which from our point of view is not understandable – and many other things. However, I would now like to go into the genetic engineering law in particular. I have to disagree with colleagues in his statements quite vehemently, including regarding MRNA-therapeutics. I would like to read briefly the old definition according to § 4 of the old genetic engineering law: § 4 – Definition, paragraph 24: ‘Somatic gene therapy in humans: Application of the targeted insertion of insulated nucleic acids into somatic cells in humans, resulting in the expression of the nucleic acids introduced, or the use of genetically modified somatic cells or cell associations in human beings outside the human organism. A human being treated with a somatic gene therapy is not considered to be a GMO – a genetically modified organism. [[Abg. Deimek: This is not understood by Mr Schallmeiner!]] What is up there with the introduction of nucleic acids that are expressed is in itself exactly what happens with an MRNA therapy. In the new version proposed by the Federal Minister, the same point of the definition contains only more of the following: “Application of GMOs” – genetically modified organisms – “for therapeutic purposes: The introduction of a GMO – a genetically modified organism – “in a human being, as far as the GMO” – a genetically modified organism – is “introduced into the environment and not applied specific inclusion measures in order to limit the contact of the GMO” – gene-changed organism – “with the population and the environment.” – It is not even preventing it, but “limiting”, which is therefore an essential change in the basic definition that this law should apply to. If you want to tell me now that this is not explicitly a derogation for the MRNA therapies, you really have to explain it very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to refer briefly to another paragraph – which the Minister and all those who are interested may read through again – namely the former or future § 74 in the Genetic Engineering Act, in which the conditions under which a somatic gene therapy may be performed on humans are laid down. It is explicitly required that, according to the state of science and technology, it be excluded that a change in the genetic material of the germination can be made. If this is not the case, it must also be demonstrated that the person being treated cannot reproduce. – This entire passport is no longer to be found in the new law, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26009	Mr Josef Smolle has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26036	Madam President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These changes are essentially an adaptation to EU law and consolidation. The whole is based on an EU regulation from 2014, and an EU regulation is something that is legally effective in the Member States. At the same time, the problem has simply been that in terms of the use of therapeutic and diagnostic measures in humans, in two separate laws, several were partly regulated in parallel. It has now been pointed out in the genetic engineering law that all that is important for the whole, for the environment, for the country as regards genetic engineering, but that, as far as the specific use of humans is concerned, as well as for other medicinal products, is very precise in the pharmaceutical law, where clinical trials were already established, the clinical trials were established. This EU Regulation has brought about a uniformisation of both the nomenclature and the legal framework for clinical trials across the EU. This brings a very large location advantage. We must bear in mind that clinical trials, clinical trials are the chance to open up access to therapeutic innovations to people in a country as early as possible. This has, for example, made enormous progress in cancer therapy over the last one and a half decades. Now Europe is an area that is very differentiated, which has very high levels of protection and which is partly very small-scale. Of course, we are in danger of falling behind as a place for clinical trials against other regions of the world. With this Europe-wide single framework, our continent will be able to say, and thus our country will continue to be attractive to clinical trials. This is very important for patients in our countries. But this also means that it can bring a real boost to Europe's entire scientific, economic and health location. At the same time, as far as clinical trials are concerned, of course our high level of protection remains, because we have also used the national scope for design in the laws which the EU regulation grants – I am thinking only of the broad technical composition of the ethics committees, which goes far beyond the direct medical or scientific competence. For example, it is also specified how structured ethics commissions must proceed that they need appropriate IT equipment, appropriate support staff, so that everything can really be done in accordance with law, solid and also quickly. This is done in close coordination with the Federal Office for Safety in Health, which, in turn, brings the advantage that institutions seeking clinical examination have a clear legal structure and clear contact persons and that decisions can also be made in a relatively timely manner. This too is an essential requirement that we can continue to have innovation in Europe and, above all, in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This matter of law was under review in the autumn of the previous year for a few weeks, and the results were also taken into account. There is now a consolidated body of legislation, which is both forward-looking and at the same time equipped with high safety standards, so we ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26087	Mrs Andrea Holzner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26108	Madam President. Minister of Health! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Briefly summarized: What's this law novel about? – It is a European-law solution for the authorisation of medicinal products for human use. In the course of this adaptation to an EU regulation, we bring together dual-tracks from genetic engineering and pharmaceuticals law and establish a platform for the Medicines Authority and the Ethics Commission. The aim is to increase the effectiveness of approval procedures, to give study participants rapid access to innovative medicinal products and to ensure that the research location of Austria is safeguarded. According to the expert in pharmaceutical law, the studies become more transparent in that they distinguish between academic and non-academic studies. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I don't know if you've seen the video in the social media that says there's a lot of deletions in the pharmaceuticals law and therefore control mechanisms are removed. Please make the effort, look at Parliament's homepage – which is very interesting by the way – before you believe such claims! It is to be kept silent that, instead of the deleted passages, provisions of an EU regulation are referred to. It is suggested that genetic engineering in medicine is something completely new, while genetic methods in medicine have been applied for over a quarter of a century. An example of this is the hormone insulin that helps thousands of people with diabetes in Austria. Instead of tons of pig-breeding raisins, today you need a cuvette with genetically modified Escherichia-coli bacteria in a little liquid to produce the same amount of insulin. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Excellent speech!]] In the hope of genetic therapy, especially in the fight against cancer, the breakthrough has not yet been achieved. In times like this one, the emotional view of laws is probably in the foreground. Please stay with a sober look, let's stick to the facts! “Land of hammers, rich in the future!” – This is what our Federal Anthem says. The toolbox has been expanding since then, and I am firmly convinced that we people in Austria are able to develop, test and take control of further and additional tools. This is a law that is important for health, for innovations in the medical field and for the medical research site. For a future-rich Austria we both need: Experience and innovation. We need courageous people with heart and mind. – I ask for broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26143	Mr Gerald Loacker has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26164	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! In the pharmaceutical law, I think a little schnitzer happens in the preparation. There is a control lavin on the pharmacies, which – rightly so – already have a particularly strictly controlled business area. They should not be burdened with additional controls by the Ages – beyond everything we have had so far. You also have to pay for these controls yourself. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kaniak.]] [[18:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26268	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore included in the debate or in the vote. There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he would like the final word. - That's not the case. [[18:48:04]] Vote on agenda items 6 to 11
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26295	I'll have the Croquis added for a moment. We would now come to the moved votes. We have agreed to ask the political groups if we can proceed immediately. – I am signaled that this is the case. Once I get the Croquis, I'll start voting. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft COVID-19 Enforcement Act in 1312 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning the title and paragraphs 2, 4, 6 to 8, 10, 16, 19 and 20. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote was called for. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are, as you know, in the House of Deputies, the names of the Members and the designation 'Yes' or 'No'. I would ask you, in the vote, to ensure that only one vote is taken. I would like first of all to make preparations for the vote by name, thank you very much to Parliament's Directorate, second to the author, Mr Schalmeiner, to start with the name call, and then Mr Cornelia Ecker to continue with it. Please, Mr Schalmeiner.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26388	I thank the two authors for the name call and declare the vote ended. At the same time, I am seeking to do the narration or the writing to accompany it. To this end, I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26433	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 170; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 137, No votes: 33. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Baumgartner, Bayr, Becher, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bernhard, Blimlinger, Brandstätter Helmut, Brandstätter Henrike, Brandweiner, Bures, Bürstmayr; Deckenbacher, Diesner-Wais, Disoski, Double Builder, Drobits; Ecker Cornelia, Egger Kurt, Einwallner, El Nagashi, Engelberg, Erasim, Eßl; Fichtinger, Fürlinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gödl, idol, Count Tanja, Grebien, Greiner Karin, great builder, Hamann Sibylle, Hammer Lukas, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechenberger, Heinisch-Hosek, Herr, Himmelbauer, Hintner, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzleitner, Holzner, Hörl, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli; Kaufmann, Keck, Kirchbaumer, Köchl, Köllner, Kollross, Koza, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher Philip, Kühberger, Künsberg Sarre, Kuntzl; Lightenfried, Lindner, Lindinger, Lopatka; Marchetti, Matznetter, Maurer, Meinl-Risinger, Melchior, Minnich; Neßler, Neumann-Hartberger, Niss Maria Theresia, Nussbaum; Obernosterer, Oberrauner Petra, Ofenauer Friedrich, Ottenschlager; Pfurtscheller, Pöttinger, Prammer, Prince; Rausch Bettina, Reimon, Rendi-Wagner, Ribo, Rössler; Salzmann, Saxinger, Scharzenberger, Schatzenberger, Schareak, Scheucher-Pichler, Geschlagenschlager, Schnabel, Schroll, Schwarz Gabriela, Schwarz Jakob, Seemayer, Seidl, Shetty, Sieber Norbert, Smodics-Neumann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stammer, Stark, Steinacker, Stocker, Stöger Alois, Stögmüller, Straser; Tanda, Tashner, Tomaselli, Totter, Door; Voglar; Weber, Weidinger, Weratschnig, Werner, Wimmer Petra, Wimmer Rainer, Wöinger; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Zarits Christoph, Zopf, Zorba. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Angerer; Bosch, Brickl; Deimek; Ecker Rosa; Fuch, Fuchs, Prince. Count Martin; port plotter, houser, courter; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Kickl, Krisper; Lauch, Loacker; Margreiter, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber; Ragger, Rauch Walter, Ries Christian; Forging metallurgy, Schnedlitz, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger Petra; Worm; Singer Wolfgang.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26603	We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rainer Wimmer, Mr Christoph Zarits, Mr Markus Koza, colleagues on 'Implementation and the working world'. If you follow this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[233/E]] vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on 'Asylstop – Now'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, Mr Michaela Steinacker, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues, on the "Fullness of the Imprisonment Act". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This request has also been adopted by a majority. [[234/E]] vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, colleagues, on the increase of the vaccination rate by positive vaccination incentives. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. [[235/E]] Vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the Vaccination Act, including title and receipt in 1314 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Act and the Epidemic Act in 1313 of the Supplements. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Article 1 for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1315 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Debates of the European Parliament Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1316 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 11: Draft Federal Act amending the Medicines Act and the Genetics Act in 1289 of the Supplements. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. As always, I will therefore vote on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts. The vote on the amendment relating to Rule 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. [[19:06:34]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on Amendment 2184/A by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Renewable Development Act (EAG), the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010 (EIWOG 2010) and the Energy Control Act (E-ControlG) (1304 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26850	In this way we reach the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e26878	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, this item on the agenda is about a new decision of the Renewable Development Act, which you have already decided in July of last year – against the votes of the Liberals. We are also opposed this time, so there is also a unique feature – not only in the event of a vaccination, but also here – and I will also explain to you why: because we see this renewable development law as a building block of a completely missing economic and energy policy, which is taking place in Europe and which threatens jobs and the European economy. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In short, to the Renewable Extension Act: It was already known in the summer, and we have also pointed out that there have been certain legislative content in the Renewable Development Act, which would certainly not be approved by the European Commission. It was all known. You ignored that; now you have to correct it. The Minister has sold this as a success in the Committee, and I have found it rather embarrassing to the European Commission – be it! A few short words why we are against the Renewable Development Act as a building block of a completely missing energy policy. – Because measure and goal have been lost here, it came to the exclusive goal for one-sided determination: We now have to prevent CO2 emissions and achieve the transition to renewables! There has been a evasion of all fossil fuels which we as an industrial nation still need so urgently. So we already have to make a confession whether we want to be an industrial nation. But then we also need to know that such an energy-intensive one is. This confession obviously does not exist from all the parties that agree, even from the Social Democracy. This is very well done by the liberals: We believe that an industrial nation also needs appropriate amounts of energy. For example, what is happening in Germany now – the blocking of gas power plants, the blocking of coal-fired power plants, nuclear power plants – is all short-sighted, that is not responsible, that is plan-economic, that is ideological, that is dogmatic. We also have the typical terms like climate liars. One is then the coronaleuchner, the climate denyr and so on and so on. That shows us that it's going to be dogmatic. The area is far too important: There belongs to a reasonable energy policy with a sense of mind, a measure and a goal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can't see them! We see them neither in Germany nor in Austria. We are now seeing the cost-laws that come to us with electricity price explosions, gas price explosions et cetera, which affects households in particular. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer:... hasn't become more expensive?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We know that the energy price, the electricity price on the invoice of each household is about a third of the pure energy price, grid costs and taxes and taxes. I'm already at the point: How can we really support our budgets and support our consumers against these charges? – It is relatively simple, and that is also the content of our request, the resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Angerer, colleagues, namely by temporarily exempting these energy supplies of electricity and gas from VAT. This is a 20 percent saving. Sales tax is a tax on the Republic. We effectively relieve the budgets of this motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Anyone who thinks it is serious about discharge of the budgets must, in fact, accept such a resolution. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27092	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. He is therefore also under negotiation. Tanja Graf is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27120	Mr President. Estimated vice chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we decided here last summer in plenary the EAG, the Renewable Development Act, and the notification procedure took place in parallel in the EU. This notification procedure has just shown that we need to adapt some of the points in the EAG. Of course, we would have liked it to go faster, so we made an initiative in the short term in December, in which we held down the essential points in order not to put notification at risk. What is it essentially about now, since we are now after this notification? It is essentially about the fact that originally planned not to let out wind energy, or at least, if necessary, only 2023. This is clearly what Brussels has to say. That is too inflexible, they want an invitation to tender before. - We'll be just about that. It will be flexibilization, because we had a pot per technology, and now we have a common pot in which wind energy and hydropower are just being written together to bring in flexibility. This pot is equipped with 20 MW, which is not an additional volume, but it is taken out of the existing pots, so to speak. With regard to electrolysis, it has unfortunately given it to God, which hurts me very much, a note that Brussels has seen this as an additional promotion and originally wanted to remove this point completely from the EAG. Together we have managed that we have the electrolysis in a promotion area with the limitation that it is being dealt with at the de minimis rule. The 2030 run was also a topic. We have managed to get this duration to have planning security that we also need for this law by 2030. A subject which is not directly from the EU, but also personally a matter of concern to me, is: We had a remaining volume of 15.5 million in the ÖSG, i.e. in the Ecostrom Act, which was available for medium hydropower. These 15.5 million will now be transferred to the EAG, where, so to speak, we will also make this available to medium-sized hydropower. In addition to the necessary adjustments, we have decided by a majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that we will decide to suspend the green rate for the year 2022. Together with the withdrawal of the renewable contribution from the present regulation, we will create another 350 million euros in 2022 as a savings for consumers, for businesses. This is an essential contribution to countering the unfortunately high energy prices. After the EU has now notified our EAG, we should not rest here, but take the next steps, because for the 27 terawatt hours we also need safe networks, a safe expansion. That is why we should ensure that the power supply is guaranteed. It is therefore also important to take the next step, namely that we make the EIA procedures more efficient in order to securely bring these 27 terawatt hours into the networks. That's a big concern to me personally. Why? – If we do not manage to expand the networks, we will unfortunately also put at risk our goal of bringing 27 terawatt hours into the networks in 2030. It is therefore also necessary for us to act here. One point on today's issue: We will create legal certainty at the General Terms and Conditions in the ElWOG, in § 80. The aim of this adjustment is to create legal certainty between suppliers and consumers. Here we will make legal requirements for price adjustments. Here we will also take into account price reductions. There will be a right to payment of instalments, with a right of up to 18 months for the consumer. Basic and further replacement services are also clearly regulated. In addition, the energy industry will also contribute. It has already set up a social fund for energy poverty. It is also well filled. The energy industry has, as it were, agreed to make its contribution. It will increase it by 20 percent. The ban on shutdown, which the energy suppliers have dated at the end of January, is now being extended by another two months. That means that there will continue to be a ban on shutdown until the end of March. All these are measures that help us to counter a high energy price on the one hand and also ensure security of supply on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27183	Mr Schroll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27207	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Yes, the SPÖ stands at 100 percent for the expansion of renewable energy sources and thus for the greatest transformation in the climate and energy sectors. That's why we already have the EAG, the Renewable Development Act. We gave our consent here in the House on July 27 hours on renewable development with approved. Yes, very, very many really great social and sustainable aspects were then negotiated in many hours into the EAG and then decided. I have always felt that the energy transition was fair and fair, because the energy transition is, of course, a very big social issue for me and for my group. My sage was at the time, too. ‘The energy transition shall not be a two-class energy transition.’ That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen, you all know very well, the first draft by Mrs Geessler in March in the Council of Ministers was a very different one from the one then on 7th. It was decided here in the House on July – but as I said, we spent a lot of hours with it. I would like to focus very briefly on some achievements, what we did at the time. The limitation of annual green electricity contributions by the cap of 1 billion euros was a very important point for us. The low-income households, which are also exempt from the GIS, are also exempt from the eco-current rate. At the negotiating table, I was then able to extend this to those poorly endangered households – that is, about 1.2 million people – which are covered with 75 euros of green electricity. Important – very important! At the time, I was also aware that the funding for the expansion of renewable energy was based exclusively on eco-social criteria. There were, for example, very important aspects of equal opportunities, equality of opportunity, health and safety at work. That was really, you can say, a paradigm change that probably would not have succeeded without social democracy at the table. The promotion of district heating would have been completely stopped, and we then negotiated it. 300 million euros by 2030 were negotiated for the cities that enable the transition to renewable energy sources. My colleague, Tanja Graf, has already mentioned this: The EU's notification has now also given us the opportunity to negotiate important aspects of the law. I was one of the most important points in my life. In December here in the House, when we also submitted the initiative proposal that the renewable funding fees for 2022 should not be lifted, saving electricity customers 350 million euros. Improvements in the basic supply for customers were created, and a very important part was, I believe – now also in the crisis of the costs and high energy prices – then the rate payments for 18 months for all consumers. I really liked it too – unfortunately, the speaking time is soon over – when I wrote an APA broadcast yesterday at 12.38 p.m. and also asked the economy to contribute to it – for example, to extend the ban on shut-off and also to increase the energy aid funds – that exactly two and a half hours later the emissions from Austria's energy came, that the energy industry also participates in it. That's, you have to say, in times like this, a beautiful sign. The valued Minister of the Federal Minister, who is unfortunately abroad today, then, on 7th. July, said it's a day of joy for them, and I have to say it was a day of joy back then. In the meantime, however, our federal government – this federal government – is in office for 740 days, and now, I believe, it is urgently necessary and time to bring this law to the ground. The still pending regulations on investment subsidies remain in place, and I think since 1. January also calls for the promotion of electricity from water, wind, PV, biomass power plants and biogas plants. I think it's high time the regulations came to the table quickly, that the law can also come into force, because – I've got it on 7th. Already said July and I say it here again –: The energy industry, which really wants to support us, to support the government, to supply 100 percent of electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030, has also deserved safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27266	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27290	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Last summer we made a historic decision with the Renewable Development Act, which aims to paves the way for us towards 100 percent eco electricity by 2030, so that we can offer our country a new, clean and manageable operating system: out of oil, gas and coal, which – as it is now – are becoming more and more expensive, pure in renewable energies, in photovoltaics, hydropower, biomass or wind energy that we have here in the country. We have passed a law with tailor-made funding for each technology, and we have also decided that we will have stable framework conditions that guarantee us that there will be up to 1 billion euros annually for the expansion of eco electricity – and that will guarantee it up to ten years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen in Brussels, the European Commission was not as enthusiastic about this package as I am, and in the aid notification procedure – the Graf colleague mentioned it – many of these points were questioned, many of these points which were very important to us here in Parliament, such as a specifically tailored support, which should have been replaced by an unusable single promotion. What would have been particularly painful was that the Commission wanted us to re-notify every three years or every five years, which would have led us to stand here every three years again, to renegotiate, which of course would have led to an incredible uncertainty for the industry. It is Minister Geessler, who was personally in Brussels, who has negotiated directly with the Vice-President of the Commission and thanks to her entire team that we now have a notification for ten years, and that is really a good signal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All in all, the amendments that the Commission has now presented to us are quite minimal, and Mr Graf has already addressed them. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, we have seen a massive rise in prices on energy markets, based on very high gas prices. – Mr Kassinger from the FPÖ: It is the fossil gas prices that make our energy system expensive. [[Abg. Cashier: The CO2 price doesn't have anything to do with that, does it?]] [[Vice chancellor Kogler: They don't exist yet!]] It is the fossil gas prices that make us dependent on very unstable – as we see right now: extremely unstable – world regions. These crisis-like price increases were repeated and will take so long as we are not independent of fossil energy imports. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Double farmer.]] All the more important is this decision that we are going to take today. Of course, in addition to this long-term goal that we need to switch to renewable energy, it is also important to put in place short-term measures to achieve this. Mr Schroll mentioned it: This year, consumers and businesses are not required to pay eco-strom funding contributions or the eco-strom fee. They thus save more than 900 million euros for this year, and I believe that this can also be seen as a discharge measure. Some of them we have in this amendment, which I will now bring in and explain in the broad outlines. In this amendment, there are small improvements in terms of promotion efficiency, but also in terms of investment safety in wind energy and biomass. We prevent the waste of hydropower from falling out of the old law and save it, so to speak, into the renewable development law. We have provided a legal right to payment of instalments, which will allow consumers, if they have to make additional payments, to be able to do so within 18 months and not to do the same. You have a legal claim for the first time. What was very important to us in the negotiations on the general terms and conditions: that there is now for the first time a symmetry offer. What does that mean? It means not only that price increases are passed on to consumers on to the energy market, but that even if prices go down again, energy supply companies have a duty to pass on these price reductions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So today's decision can go away. I know that many investors, for example, who want to set up new windwheels, are already stuck in the starting holes. We all need it for this implementation. For example, for wind energy – and I would like to take a short look at what you, colleague Graf, said – first and foremost, before we can do anything at all, enough areas where windwheels can be installed at all. If no areas are identified – and for that the federal states, the national leaders, are responsible – then there is no need to discuss procedures either. I believe that there are also the countries in charge, and I believe that if we all take one line together, then this renewable development package will be a full success. This package we decide today is a damn good package and a very good news for the energy transition, and I ask for broad consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27369	Please stay there, Mr Deputies. You wanted to submit a request that you have been distributed, which you have also explained, but you have to mention in some way that you are submitting this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27384	I shall bring the amendment tabled by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, Members of Parliament, to the report of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on amendment 2184/A by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, colleagues on a federal law which amends the Renewable Development Act (EAG), the ElWOG 2010 and the Energy Control Act, 1304 of the supplements I have explained in the main guidelines. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[19:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27911	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The application is properly filed and is also under negotiation. I am speaking now of Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e27938	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We've already talked about it: The issue now is that we are deciding today on a novel that improves the EAG, the Renewable Development Act, and takes into account concerns that have, in particular, come from the EU to the support system. It makes the system closer to the market, it strengthens technology and neutrality, and it creates – and this is really a very important point, especially for the industry – more planning security. These ten years, which have been negotiated with God here, are therefore very important, especially for entrepreneurs, whom we support on the road and which really require this planning security to train workers and to take the right steps economically. As you can already hear, we support NEOS this novel. We also find it extremely important that the energy transition in Austria is finally coming – for several reasons: On the one hand, this happens from the one point of view that we want to hand over an intact planet to our subsequent generations – logically a whole, very essential point. On the other hand, there is also this aspect that we need more independence from rising world market prices for fossil energy sources. In this respect, there is also a very, very great opportunity to become more independent of, for example, Russian supply chains. Where that can lead, you can see right now. Climate and economic policy is very important here. This was very successful from our point of view, but it was also high in time. Although the Federal Minister has nothing to do with it now, the directive that is at the table has been in place since 2014. Other countries have already implemented it a long time ago, we needed it until 2022. - All right. But what it needs next – and this quite quickly – are additional measures whose delivery has already been promised, such as the hydrogen package, the heat strategy and also the Federal Energy Efficiency Act. The Climate Protection Act is another important, very large law, which I hope will come soon and will be negotiated in this House. As I said, we are sparse here, the next steps really need to be taken very quickly. In addition, there is still something very important – as Mr Graf has already mentioned, she has talked about the expansion of the infrastructure – because, on the one hand, we have the EAG, but of course we also need to build the infrastructure accordingly in order to finally ensure power supply and grid stability in the medium and long term. That's an important point, that's the B if you said A. It is again about a question that is very important to me personally – many in this House will already know –: It's about how we do this: Let us build free lines, i.e. cables, which we hang on steel poles standing on very massive concrete posts, or we move Earth cable? I've already mentioned it a few times: At a voltage of up to 110 kV, the Earth's cable has only advantages: Network stability, durability, resistance in extreme weather, soil sealing, biodiversity, forest protection, soil prices of the environment, landscape protection, tourism and so on. Yes, it may be that in the case of an earth cable installation – depending on how the topography is designed – the costs are a little higher, but that is not always the case. That's why we want an accurate test. I am particularly pleased that we have found more and more allies in this fight today. Mr Schroll and Mr Ecker have agreed to support a motion for a resolution from the SPÖ in order to finally bring Austria to international standards. This motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] As I said, the step A has been taken with the EAG, the step B is to really create a stable infrastructure. The earth cables can cover a very important area here. That is why I would really be pleased about your support for this request. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28074	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Christoph Stark is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28102	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! People expect policy solutions. This is our core task, that we offer people solutions to the challenges of everyday life and life. We have some of these challenges to solve. I mention only the tax reform, the labour market, social affairs and care – while the care is a little more – and also education. As an increase, we also have crises. A crisis is the Corona crisis, which has already been a broad topic in this House today, the second crisis is the climate crisis that we are now devoting ourselves to with this law. As a marginal note, I note: The care that we still have to devote ourselves to is also moving slowly towards crisis. Let us remain in the climate crisis and in the Renewable Development Act, which is now practically available in version 2.0, especially since some editorial changes had already been made to the colleague Graf. However, it has also done a lot in terms of content, such as the fact that renewable development communities are not subject to the rules of commerce, which is a huge relief for this segment, and that evaluation obligations have also come into the law. Ladies and gentlemen, especially those at home! But what does the energy balance in Austria look like? How does energy come together? Comparing the years 2010 to 2020 shows that gas, coal and other fossil energy sources have decreased by around 5 gigawatts. The possibilities for the supply of renewable energies have compensated for this. That means: If we are talking about an additional need of society, of an additional need for the economy of Austria as a whole, we need more energy in total – especially if we also want to substitute fossil energy sources. This means, of course, that we must make extreme efforts in the framework of the EAG so that this energy transition can succeed and we can also satisfy the energy hunger that people, the economy and science have. Some requirements must be met. On the one hand, legal certainty is needed. That's normal for us. We need this legal certainty in the procedures, we need consumer protection, we need clear rules throughout the legal structure, which have also been created here. But we also need more photovoltaics. Of course, this calls for the sensitivity of all those involved. We know that in Austria we have sensitive areas that should not necessarily fall within the PV. But we also need areas where PV can take place. In the same way, we need the expansion of wind and hydropower. This requires not only good and fast procedures, but also – and for this we must advertise – the understanding of the People, we must, of course, rely on these technologies when we switch to renewable energies. Whoever says A has to say B too, has already told Colleaguer. For me, the A, which is the safe networks, is almost advanced. We need an extremely good network expansion in the electricity sector. In this respect, network operators are really required. They also need support, otherwise this turn will not succeed, and I am very much in favour of supporting the network operators in these very large investment projects. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning I spoke about the solutions that policy has to offer. The EAG is such a solution. Now it is necessary to do so with the relevant regulations which the Minister has to set in motion. And I am advocating to agree to this law, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28156	Mr Werner Kogler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28177	Only a few comments and thanks for the advertising of honourable Members Stark just now. It is really here again in the house today that several political groups have agreed on something. I am grateful for the negotiations, but above all I would like to thank the Cabinet staff and the good spirits in the ministry and also in the other ministries involved. I didn't mean to let that happen. Many aspects have fallen, but I think one should perhaps still be taken out, because it closes or frames the whole day, all of which concerns the ecologisation of the tax system up to now to this renewable development law: On the one hand, this is the point of planning security which we have now produced for ten years in the case of the Union. This did not reach so many, and this was interpreted a little differently by the first speaker Kassinger. This is already a good thing, which is stable and planning security is important. The second security in this transformation into a more ecological time with renewable energies is the social inclusion that is taken away and not so much burdened. This morning, I think, we had a little misunderstanding, I and the Socialist Group. Of course, it is a huge problem if energy prices rise so much within a few months. The EAG will also be re-directed, because this year, in which prices rise so much, the rate of funding is not given to the renewables and the contribution will also be set with zero. But that's not the only measure, so I'm talking about a contemplation. The climate bonus mentioned above, for example, is paid out throughout the year, although the CO2 tax is only paid from 1. It's coming in on July. However, it is only for this reason that it does not take place until 1 January. July one because we've seen how this winter develops. So there are three elements, and the fourth will take hold in the future: Whenever prices on the energy market rise, the CO2 surcharge will be lower, and vice versa will naturally. This, I believe, creates social security in terms of energy prices and, on the other hand, planning security. There is a reliable price and in this case an extension path. All in all, this is a round thing, so I believe that we can look forward to good courage in the energy sector in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28220	Now, Mrs. Mag.a. Dr. Petra Oberrauner, you speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28244	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues and spectators at home! Mr Vice-Chancellor, I can agree with you on everything about future music, but there is also a time axis and there is also a liquidity shortage for few people who have a low budget. I'd like to talk about it now. It is good that this relief regarding the eco-electric fee, which is issued, is at least EUR 50 and the minister has improved a little so that we can reach EUR 100 a year, yet a electricity price increase of 143.6 per cent, that is almost 144 per cent, and a gas price increase that is seven times the normal price, so that it does not catch up and do not pick up at all. We're talking about extra payments between 400 and 600 euros in the room. We're talking about Corona. We are talking about difficult working conditions, short-term work with less income, inflation, inflation at all levels, food, rental prices and so on. For this reason, the European Union has considered changing the funding directives for this year, in which there are several things that really create a difficult situation together, and has allowed one to do something about taxes and direct promotions. We as SPÖ have proposed halving VAT on gas and electricity prices for low-income households and granting a one-off direct grant of 300 euros this year, because actually 1.2 million people are affected. They don't deserve so much that they can afford what is happening to them next to all the other problems. It's not much better for businesses. We remember: 70 percent of sales in Austria are made by SMEs, and of course they are also faced with these increases. Of course, they did not put this in the budget as liquidity, because it was not planned, and cannot pass the costs on to the customers. In order to maintain liquidity, they must also receive direct support within the framework of a support plan to be developed by the government. I would also be in favour of halving sales tax and aid that is now working directly to ensure that businesses continue to run and it does not end in unemployment, because that would cost the state a little. I would like to refer to the President of the Upper Austria Chamber of Commerce, Doris Hummer, who has already recognized this very well and documented it accordingly in the press today. I appeal to you, after you will take more by the higher prices, to really take these groups into account. They make up a substantial part of society and pay their taxes as well as they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28292	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, that's not the case. Do the clubs wish to interrupt before the vote? – That is not the case either. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1304 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Schroll, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Alois Schroll, Mr President, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1 and 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. Here, too, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on “Prevent energy poverty – no turnover tax on electricity and gas”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, Alois Schroll, colleagues on ‘Bundeswide regulation for the standard installation of 110kV lines as earth cable’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[19:48:00]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 943/A(E) by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on ‘Stop conversion therapies’ – finally implement unanimously resolution of 2019 (1311 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28427	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28454	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me this short thematic trip: Today is a good day. The European Court of Justice has finally decided with an opinion what we were all convinced of: The indexed family aid introduced by Turquoise-Blue is illegal in the EU. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Disoski.]] That's good. We call on the current Federal Government to immediately abolish this non-social and EU-lawless regime, and the loss of family benefits must definitely be paid retroactively, because every child is worth the same amount. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the Equal Treatment Committee: It is a coincidence that we can discuss this today because of a small margin of vote. We would like to vote fully in favour of this request by Mr Shetty. Why? – It is about conversion therapies, brutal reeducation therapies, where human rights are not accepted, brutal reeducation therapies, if you want to ban people, how they live or who they want to love. It's clear to us: These conversion therapies have no place in our country! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] They must be banned in the school sector, with an initiative by our colleague Mario Lindnerja a few years ago in this House creating a truly broad alliance, and this ban has also been implemented by the Ministry of Education. However, this ban must also be fully implemented in the private sector. That is why we would like to vote in favour of this proposal here and today and reject this negative committee report. We want this confession here and now and therefore reject the referral back to the Equality Committee because this confession and this ban must finally be implemented. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And we are making a request for a deadline, because we have already brought this ban into the judicial committee in legal form. This deadline is important so that we can finally go a little further. However, this voting margin also allows us to discuss other important things that have unfortunately been postponed in the Equal Treatment Committee: the proper basic funding of women's and girls' advisory services, which do such important work, which many women support in a wide variety of matters, from protection of violence to the workplace and much more. It is precisely these that have not been taken into account in the fully announced violence package last year. They have not received any money, but are faced with an extremely precarious financial situation. There are unscathed financing situations with which women's advisory bodies are involved. Every day they have to work, although they actually want to be there only for the women who support them and to whom they stand. We do not let them become bitters, and that must not be the case in the future. That is why we vehemently oppose an opaque women's fund, which is currently to be set up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a black box that flows into the tax money and for which any parliamentary control is simply abolished. This parliamentary control is important because the women's organizations deserve to know where their tax money is flowing. Every single woman in this country has deserved that this parliamentary control is also right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women's organisations have rightly made an alarm. They sound like an alarm because they're afraid of being saved mouth-to-mouth. They are alarming because they may be operating turquoise mail chess again, and they are alarming because transparency in the allocation of funding is completely abolished. We are on the side of these women's organizations!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28551	I welcome Mrs Susanne Raab to Parliament. – Welcome! Mrs Mag.a Faika El-Nagashi is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28579	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have opportunity to talk about conversion therapies. First of all, I would like to say that it is misleading when we talk about therapies here. Indeed, there are not therapies in an understanding of a therapeutic, a health approach, but they are interventions that are highly worrying, which are very problematic and which are neither approved nor practised in the right therapeutic area. We are talking about a matter in which we have agreement here across all political groups. That's very important. It is a very important starting point to know that we want the same content and policy here. However, there are still gaps, and these gaps are less in the actual therapeutic area than in a very ideological area, in an area where, for ideological and often religious reasons, these so-called conversion treatments or interventions take place and are directed against lesbians, gays and bisexuals. This is an area where there are gaps where we still need to find access, as we can also legally close these gaps. This matter is in the competent ministry and is being processed there. It is expected to make a proposal in the next half-year how a gap can occur. For this reason, we will also refer this matter back to the Committee and further discuss it there. As has been said, it is important that we stand for the same political position here, especially among young people who are in a very vulnerable situation, who are experiencing a lot of pressure from their families, including politics, society, peer groups, social media, and perhaps with the fact that there are attempts to carry out these interventions in lesbian, gay, bisexual young people, by law, to ensure that such an action is prohibited and does not take place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28618	Mr Christian Lausch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28642	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the subject of equal treatment, I can only join my colleague, Mr Holzleitner. We would not be standing here today, because the government parties of black and green have not put any request on the agenda. They were just opposition applications. Equal treatment is so important to the government parties. And then a voting margin happened – that's exactly what you can call, that's exactly what it was –: It has happened that both government parties have forgotten to postpone this request. They then voted against, although they voted in favour of this request in 2019. That is why we have a negative committee report here today. And now there's suddenly a referral request. Now we have to fix a voting margin of the government parties here. We're not ready to go there, we don't think so. ==References== July 2019 has gone a lot of time. A motion for a resolution, Mrs Bundesminister, is an expression of Parliament's will – yes, the Federal Minister has something better to do – and this should also be implemented. [[in the direction of the with Abg. Gabriela Schwarz speaking Federal Minister Raab]] Shetty's request is not the only one to be applied to it. July 2019 until today has not been implemented. There are many motions for resolutions, and it is an unkind of the Federal Government that it needs years when the majority of the National Council makes a will and says it is to implement and it is waiting for implementation. In the referral request – the last sentence – the application is to be referred back, the implementation is being worked on. That's what's been going on since 2. July 2019 worked, and now it is finished with the work, today belongs to tuned and no longer rescinded. We are also calling for the vote today and will refuse to accept this referral request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28682	Mr Mario Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28709	Mrs El-Nagashi has claimed that we still need to close any legal gaps in this law. That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: There is now a fixed law. It is in the judicial committee, and we could decide today.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28736	I would also like to make a point of correcting Mrs Magnette's position. Meri Disoskizu word reported. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28764	In her speech, Mr Holzleitner just claimed that the Turkish-green government had not increased the budgets of women's and girls' advisory services since 2020. That's wrong. I am actually correcting that the budgets of women's and girls' advisory services have been increased by 15 percent since 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28793	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I agree with my colleagues that there is some sort of insistence in the Equal Treatment Committee, and there has developed a ritual that looks like this: There's a theme on the table, SPÖ and NEOS say we're too slow or doing nothing. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, that's true...!]] The Greens say everything fails to the ÖVP, they would like to see it anyway. And we've got the Bummerl, and everyone has somehow found a balance, so you can sort of find yourself with it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Lausch: This is a bankruptcy statement!]] But I would like to break through this ritual, and I would like to say how – of course, from my point of view – the situation actually looks out. It is always said that nothing is done for women and that lies about the ÖVP. To this end: The Minister for Women of the ÖVP Raab has raised the women's budget since she was in office by 81 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister for the Interior of the ÖVP Karl Nehammer has regulated the whole subject matter with the third generation anything but trivial and brought it under the roof and subject, which is completed. ÖVP National Council President Wolfgang Sobotka has initiated that we first raised the rainbow flag on the International Day against Homophobia at Parliament. [[Call the FPÖ:Na boom!]] Mr Edtstadler, the minister of the ÖVP, made a very clear statement on the situation in Hungary and Poland, including a resolution in this Parliament, and made himself strong in the relevant bodies. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Who was that?]] We have in the past, I have often stressed that in the field of equal treatment, certainly not boasted, but we have done our homework in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Two topics, which are very high on the agenda in the Equal Treatment Committee, are the prohibition of blood donation and, on the other hand, conversion therapy. [[Abg. Lindner: Still!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This also takes a very long time!]] These are both topics that lie with a green minister and a green minister. And to return to the ritual: This does not fail with the ÖVP. We have also cooperated and voted in these resolutions, and we naturally expect the homework to be done there, just as we do our homework. I would be pleased if, instead of always grumbling at the ÖVP, the respective Members would also give a little gas to their ministers and see that we are bringing things to the ground there. I would like to go straight to that point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also do not want to take responsibility for myself. One thing that was discussed last time is that the accreditation procedure for associations in sexual pedagogy is still open. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's been so long!]] I have already discussed this with the new Minister for Education Polashek. I will not invest my time to be ashamed, but to come to a solution quickly with the staff in the ministry, in the cabinet and with the minister. I would be pleased if the Green Members were equally committed to supporting their ministries and their staff so that we could come to a solution soon. I think that's what we're all here for. That is what we are often in favour of with regard to motions for resolutions. We all want something to go on. Everyone has his role, opposition and government. Government isn't always funny. Yes, it's not funny to negotiate the ban on blood donation with the Red Cross. All this isn't easy, I know, but governance isn't easy. I hope that we will come to an end on these issues, and the opposition is right. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I am looking forward to working on these issues and perhaps getting really away from this ritual and to material work, so that we can also carry on a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28964	Magnificence comes to the fore. Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e28988	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it has been discussed several times today. We had a meeting of the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Monday, and 14 motions for resolutions were on the agenda, 14 agenda items. By the way, they all came from the opposition. No request, no initiative came from the government! And except for a request, which is the one we are discussing here, everything has been postponed. You may have to explain to the spectators what adjourning actually means. This is such an abstract concept here in Parliament. It does not mean that one agrees or rejects content – that would be legitimate to say that one is for it or against – no, one shakes this request and he never sees the light of the public again. We find this practice of drawering impossible, and I also tell you why: All of us here are well-paid Members, politicians and politicians, and we are paid to work. And I do not understand at work that as a representative of a government party, you sit in a committee and postpone everything. This is rather a refusal to work. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yeah, what are we talking about here today? . We are discussing a request for a vote. So, in fact, one wanted to postpone him anyway, but somehow a Green Group Member slept and the postponement was therefore rejected. That is why we are discussing today's request that the ban on conversion therapies should finally be implemented. I think it is good that we are discussing this because there is an opportunity to talk to the people about the inability to talk about the inaction of the government on equality issues. It is a question of prohibiting the use of re-pollution therapies, i.e. conversion therapies for young people who are gay or lesbian. This is something that should be of course in 2022, namely that one does not try to necessarily re-polate sexual orientation, (c) 2002-2008, as amended by As in Germany, we want to prohibit that by law. There are already two requests – from 2019 and 2021 – that have been adopted unanimously and that the government is calling for to do so. But nothing happened. Now we have to say, and I agree with the comments made by the ÖVP colleague that this is not only to be addressed to the ÖVP, because the Greens can already do their own homework: It is a Green Minister for Health, it is a Green Minister for Justice and there are two unanimous resolutions. You could just do it and not just talk. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Lindner.]] This also applies to non-discrimination-free blood donation. You don't need the coalition partner, who's blocked in many questions – no question! – but not on this question. This is a regulation of the Minister of Health which he could implement. By the way, that was the case. And if your colleague in the committee would not have forgotten the adjournment, your colleague, who is apologised today, we would not even talk about it publicly today. [[towards Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hamann]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Give a law as you would be obliged to do to the National Council. Finally, it is about children who are to be protected here, about gay, lesbian youths who are to be protected, and I think we must not lose any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29060	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr spoke. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29082	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers and viewers in front of the screens! First of all, a replica on the comments made by Mr Shetty: Yes, we have postponed agenda items, but we have discussed these agenda items for three hours. We have very precise – very precise! – providing information on the negotiating position and also on what ideas we have on these individual agenda items. Mr Shetty! Nor is it art to get out of the government programme of the ÖVP and the Green Points and then to write them into applications to complain that we are still discussing and negotiating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – The same applies to the SPÖ, because you are already yelling in. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As far as the issue of stopping conversion therapies is concerned, I am of course entirely of the opinion of all those who have spoken, namely that, if it still exists, this must be prevented. I would like to join with Mr Marchetti's remarks. That's why I'm not going to say that anymore. It is true that many LGTIQ topics are dealt with in the Equal Treatment Committee, although it is a cross-sectional matter. Mr Lindner has already done this, for example, there is also a request in the Committee on Justice. The same is true of women's issues. The Equal Treatment Committee deals with many women's equality issues, although this is also cross-sectional. But our Lady Minister Raab has the lead here. Please allow me, therefore, to deal briefly with some women's issues during my speaking time. First of all, I would like to return briefly to the tax reform which we have discussed today at noon. This tax reform also brings women a lot. In particular, the income tax reduction, which will be implemented this year, strongly favours the low wages, which, as it were, will benefit exponentially from it. The increase in the social security bonus also benefits women, the family bonus anyway. The additional amount of children for single parents will be increased, the climate bonus will benefit women. The increase in pensions that we have already decided in autumn and now also the amount of retirement pensions is very much in favour of women. Even Parliament's budget service has confirmed that women benefit even more from the reduction of low income and climate bonus than men. There is a number that expresses very well how social a state is, that is the Gini coefficient. This expresses how much of the higher income is redistributed to the lower incomes. This Gini coefficient also gets lower, so better. And the poverty risk rate is also falling, so that we can say in total that this tax reform is very much in favour of those who deserve less, and that is in Austria – unfortunately, one must say – for the most part the women. Now only a very brief outlook on what we are planning for 2022 in the area of women and equality. Yes, there must be a new 15a agreement with the countries regarding childcare and elementary education. And yes, I think we can also find ourselves, we are all in favour of it being expanded, that there are qualitative and quantitative improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would ask you to remember that we must also have the countries and the communities in the boat. The countries actually have jurisdiction, not the federal government, you know that very well. If you demand such things as a legal claim, then, for example, a socialist federal state could go ahead and try to implement them accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] – They will just come out and speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also implement the automatic pension division, since I am very confident, as we stand in good negotiations with the Greens. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This is absolutely important to bring about a lot more justice for women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In the field of violence, we have the highest budget that ever existed. There is a total of 43 percent of the budget increase since 2020, and these funds that we have more will be so effective this year. I do not think we have to hide there at all and thank Mrs Minister very much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] What is extremely important to us from the ÖVP is that we also drive the empowerment, the strength of women. It is very important that women be able to be economically independent. This can not only happen by getting aid or support or support from the state. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – No, they must be strengthened by us in such a way that they are able to make more money too. We are doing this about a lot of programs that run across the AMS and especially benefit women. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] For example, we also do this through special programmes for empowerment of women with migration backgrounds. [[New call to the SPÖ.]] We will also focus on training in the Mint areas, for it is known that people who work in this area also deserve more. So it's not always about us, or it's important to us that we don't make women a bit of bitters, but we want to strengthen them, we want them to be able to earn their support themselves, regardless of their respective life partners, and thus have a good future. [[Abg. Lightenness: speaking time!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29181	The next speaker is Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29206	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pfurtscheller, it would have been exciting for the Members of all the other parties if you had put forward proposals on what you have now presented as a project in women's and equality policies to the Equality Committee and we could have discussed them in the democratic, parliamentary procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we are discussing conversion therapies again. What's this about? – This is about certain approaches to medieval, brutal approaches to pseudotherapy that try to change the sexual orientation of people. Yes, we agree across all party borders – not only from the speeches we have heard now – that we do not accept these therapies in all forms in Austria and that we do not want them to be practised in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already decided twice in requests, specifically here in the House, across all party borders. We have given the government a mandate to submit a government proposal for a ban on these therapies. This was in July 2019 at the initiative of my colleague Mario Lindner. – Dear Mario, I remember how you directed us from here in July 2019: “We are stopping Homo-Heiler in Austria today.” – Thank you for this initiative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is only embarrassing and disillusioning at the same time that today – two and a half years and an additional request that the same one has requested – we are still standing here and there is no government proposal. This is really not a positive sign of equality policy under Turkish green, which apparently hangs in the waiting loop. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact – Mr Shetty has already mentioned it – that 14 agenda items were dealt with at the meeting of the Equal Treatment Committee on Monday with only 14 opposition requests – there was no government template, no request from Turquoise and Green – that all these 14 applications – except the one which obviously forgot to make a request for a postponement – were postponed, which, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, is truly not an optimistic sign of women's and equality policy in Austria. If we know that this crisis has a special impact on women, and at the same time requests to increase the basic funding of women's and girls' advisory bodies are postponed to income transparency, so important applications for violence – such as the anti-violence ambulances or an anti-violence app – are postponed, even though we note that it is increasingly abusing, hate attacks and violence attacks on members of the LGTIQ community, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is not really a good sign with the knowledge that the next equal treatment committee will meet in April. Women's and equality policies depend on black and green apparently in the waiting loop and have a broadcast break. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29278	Next speaker is Dr.a. Oberrauner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29299	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Spectator from home! 14 requests, 13 postponed, an opinion of the Minister: That is how our meeting of the Committee on Equal Opportunities looked forward. If then Mr Lausch says that there were only requests from the opposition on the agenda, I must say: Yes, sad! Then I hear from Mr Marchetti: Being in government is not always a fun. – I don’t want you to have fun, quite honestly, I want you to do your job! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it would be important to look at empathy and also respect for colleagues who are in the opposition, but who can therefore also think in the same way. Sometimes it is also true that other people have good ideas, because they may also be in contact with people. There is no pearl from the crown at all, if you agree by a majority to a request from us because it benefits the women. I don't understand where the problem is at all. Is it about ego or is it about women's policy? That's what we need to clarify. The second thing I would like to say: If we continue to be treated in this way, we will be listening to every request that is postponed – Mrs Minister, I hope you will listen to me? – to make a request to the Minister so that she may at least have to talk to us about the request if she does not volunteer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're going to go through this consistently until we get into a communication. If You prefer to write, rather employ the officials and work out your things for 14 agenda items for two months, then we do, and that doesn't matter to us at all. I would also like to come back to a subject that is really my heart. We did not discuss two topics – already discussed, but in a way that was not enough – because we postponed them: It is about women's quotas in the board and it is also about single-parent women with children in Austria, which is something that must be given – 162,000 women and 338 000 children, one third of which is vulnerable. For the indicators for children in poverty, single education is one among the top three. These are topics that you're adjourning. I think you should urgently think about what you are doing, for whom you do it, if you do it and what you are paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29358	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Do the clubs wish to interrupt before the vote? – That is obviously not the case either. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Marchetti, colleagues, to refer the matter back to the Committee on Equal Opportunities. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The vote on the proposal itself will be taken. [[20:19:16]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 37, 39, 43, 53, 57 and 63 (1279 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29412	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kollross spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29442	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Unfortunately, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has become a body with the black and blue government, which is no longer seriously concerned with issues. [[Call the ÖVP: Black Blue?- Oh, my God!]] There, we are not prepared to discuss seriously the concerns of citizens. One makes the petitions and citizens' initiatives come about, one picks up a few comments because one has to, and then it ends up. We are not prepared to discuss further in the relevant committees. This is actually an evidence of poverty for citizens' participation. I would like to take an initiative very consciously, namely the question of the transport of students. We all know – the ÖVP probably much more, because a lot of things happen in this field in rural areas, for which it is said to be so strong – that we have a massive problem in the transport of students and students, among other things because there is a legal situation that means quite a different count variant than in the normal transport of children and young people. In student and student transport, this means that two seats have to be provided for three children, which means that our children are transported on a daily basis in some school buses, of course, like Sardinia. If you are still looking at the situation of the pandemic, this is also a health issue in addition to the issue of transport and safety policy. On the one hand, we discuss all possible measures in the school classes, but when transporting children and young people to school, everything is grudging us, so we stop them together. That is why we said that we would like to discuss this and would like to see an amendment in this regard. Unfortunately, both the ÖVP and the Greens are not willing to make a change. Unfortunately, I can't save you because it's about the safety of our children: That's how it looks. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a bus filled with students can be seen.]] Every day thousands of children and young people are transported to school in full bus in the morning like Sardinia, and you are not even ready to discuss it. This is actually an evidence of poverty, and this is unworthy of our children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is time there was a change, and therefore it would be time for ÖVP and Greens to move at last. If you are not ready to do so, it would be time to assign it to the committee responsible and to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29488	Next speaker is Member Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29512	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live in our country! Today, nine years ago, direct democracy in Austria celebrated a high office. There was a public survey on the subject: Should there continue to be general military service in Austria or not? It is based on the well-known conclusion that an overwhelming majority has opted for its retention. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is, of course, a more important and valuable one in addition to the instruments of popular survey and referendum. There citizens are asked to the Parliament to find common solutions to improve the quality of life for Austrians. Our understanding as an Austrian People's Party is that we are not only making politics for the people who are living in Austria today, but that we are already thinking of the next generation. This is particularly evident in questions of infrastructure. I would like to highlight today a petition in particular, which has succeeded in bringing together a petition – social democrats, liberties and the People’s Party – to make better use of the opportunities of the coral railway for Carinthia. It is about the fact that in a few years the route from Graz to Villach will be handled in 70 minutes. This means a quantum leap for sustainability, for accessibility and for the opening up of our region, because a new Metropolitan Area is created in South Austria – in Carinthia and in Styria. But what we need, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are already making the right decisions in order to ensure an alternative route for freight transport. The line between Villach and Klagenfurt is a small thing, and we want to protect it in the future in the interests of citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why this petition has the substance to deal strongly with noise protection. I would also like to thank the representatives of the government parties for having decided by an overwhelming majority on the eco-social tax reform, because this means that there is money for the expansion of public transport, which means there is money for noise protection. We are also looking for support across all political camps to include the alternative route of the train route to the Villach and Klagenfurt line in the target network, for the benefit of the development of the beautiful state of Carinthia and South Austria. When we have controversial discussions as to whether road development is necessary or not, it is especially necessary that we do not forget the track. We strongly support the implementation of road projects, especially in Carinthia, such as the link between the capital of Klagenfurt and the Steirian border, across the federal state, where unfortunately a construction phase has been stretched out, and can no longer be further expanded. We believe that an extension is necessary. If there is no extension, it is of course our opinion that it is also thought in alternatives. That is why we ask Mrs. Federal Minister Weessler – and I also thank you for this open conversation channel – to put up funds to provide them for the alternative route management and expansion – keyword: last mile, improvements to the well-being of the population in the district of St. Veit, in the districts of Klagenfurt City and Land and, of course, for the Grand Villach area. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a valuable, constructive exchange in the Committee on Petitions, especially on many issues relating to infrastructure, but also on many other issues of particular importance to Austrian communities and regions. That is why I look forward to a constructive and good cooperation in 2022 to serve the citizens of Austria even better.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29574	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29598	Mr President. Dear Seers! For the petition concerning ‘guaranteing extensive self-sufficiency with domestic food’: It is precisely on this issue that the ÖVP and its agriculture ministers have failed. For many years, the ÖVP has been acting as the competent minister. What has been achieved? What has been done to counter it? - Nothing. The farmers' alliances can do that best. Farming continues to die, more and more farms are closing, more and more land is being built, we are top riders in the ground sealing. The degree of self-sufficiency automatically decreases. This means that we can no longer produce environmentally friendly and regionally. If there were still 2.65 million cattle in Austria in 1985, it was only 1.86 million in 2020, and the trend is still falling. For the black and the green comrades: Fewer cattle are automatically called less calves. Save So you are the lies of overproduction! Self-sufficiency is also very low in poultry. For ducks, for example, we have a self-sufficiency rate of only 19 percent, with geese the degree of self-sufficiency is leaner than 28 percent, and for Puten, we only have 44 percent self-sufficiency. And see: Butter's own supply is only 72 percent. That is, 28 percent of the butter is imported. Where are the Butterbergs? Have they melted away in the lukewarm policy of the ÖVP? [[Call the ÖVP:Oi!]] But the self-sufficiency of food fish is particularly low, it is only 7 percent. This policy destroys our agriculture. The best example is currently the GAP, the Green Deal, which you are planning. Austria's agriculture is a hobby farm. I have started this petition on this issue in order to draw attention to this problem, as unfortunately there is not sufficient food sovereignty in many areas. Unfortunately, ÖVP and Greens see this differently, and so this petition is not assigned to the Committee on Agriculture, but is simply taken note of. The ÖVP does what it can best: nothing. If the farmer is ruined, it is carefully imported. A shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29632	Mrs Mag. Faika El-Nagashi. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29656	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a petition which has a special animal suffering on the subject. It's about cat-castration. Cats and cats have had to be castrated with freeway for about 15 years. This is also understandable and logical because otherwise they would multiply completely uncontrolled and unblemished. This is a situation that nobody really wants. Since 2016, however, there has been a novel that eliminates this animal welfare idea. Through this novel can be registered a cat or a cat as a breeding animal, cost point for this can be about 50 euros. That animal is thus exempt from this scheme. Breeding animals may move uncastrated and unattended outdoors, and this leads to a situation – that is, animal protectionists from Vorarlberg to Vienna – that has brought about a critical population of neglected, ill and uncared scatter cats. This is a problem not only in terms of breeding, but also there is no information about it or any influence on how the cats live, how they move in the populations, whether they are used to people or not whether they can be cared for medically or not. The fact that we know about this and the extent of the phenomenon is what we owe to the 45 000 people who signed the petition, but above all to those who stand behind it. These are people who are very committed to volunteering in the area who care for animals. These are Sabine Auer from the association Scrivenerkatzen OÖ together with many, many volunteers who have been doing educational work on the subject for years, and organizations such as We for the animal, cats in need, the animal protection association Schärding, the Katzenheim Freudnau and many more. In total, there are 30 associations across Austria that have joined forces and call for an end to this problematic arrangement. We have also taken up this point in the request for animal welfare, and we have agreed in our motion for a resolution to focus on it. In concrete terms, it will be a matter of conducting for the first time an evidence-based collection of data in relation to the scatter cat population and the cat castration, and of conducting a round table on cat castration, on possible promotion programs and on operational standards in the discovery of scatter cats. This also requires a commitment to strengthen the cooperation of the federal government and countries in order to monitor and control scatter cat populations. That means there's awareness of it here. Thank you all for bringing in and signing the petition. I am looking forward to working with those who are concerned about animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29693	Next speaker is Maximilian Köllner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29715	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Meanwhile, I do not feel that the ÖVP is something the children in Austria. It's like they want to write a children's book, but with several dark chapters: We already know the clumsy history of the ÖVP, which has prevented child care billions for Sebastian Kurz's career. In the Committee on Petitions, as a government, you have finally added a new chapter and strangled a petition, initiated by us and supported by concerned parents, which would have improved school children by giving them more space in buses that transport school children. The problem has already been raised by my colleague, Andi Kollross, and I would like to stress this once again. In the school bus, each child must have his own seat and get dressed. However, this does not apply to regular buses, because the 2:3 rule applies there: Three children are allowed to share two places. Children may even stand in the regular bus. As if this were not already uncertain enough, it is not possible, particularly at impact times, to comply with the distances currently required with the available capacities. That means in practice: stuffed buses, throttles, just as we saw here earlier at Andi Kollross: [[Keeping a table in height on which a bus filled with students can be seen]] Drums and stuffed buses. This is an intolerable threat to our schoolchildren. I would like to stress once again: Our children are not Sardinia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In essence, there are two points where it is necessary. First of all, it is urgent to adapt the Drive Act of 1967 to the 1:1 counting rule. Secondly, More buses need to be provided, especially at much more frequent times. This is the only chance to ensure a safe school path and a relaxation in the place situation. This is not only what we see, but also the public prosecutor's office and the board of trustees for road safety. On the side of the government coalition now, and on the other hand, it is a bit too easy to shift responsibility to the countries, because, after all, the free movement of students is financed by the funds of the family compensation fund, so there would be a need for the Minister of Family, which unfortunately is not here. However, if you continue to watch as a government coalition, accept that children and young people will continue to be exposed to danger in the future. I'm asking you if you want to. Do you really want that? I don't think so. So it's going to be Please be active here, for the safety of children and young people in Austria! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29766	Next speaker is Fiona Fiedler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29787	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! The Committee on Petitions has repeatedly received numerous notices and delays, mainly because of the lack of opinions or because they have arrived too late. Although it should not be unusual for a petition to be assigned to a technical committee, it is very rare in practice. For this reason, I am all the more pleased to be able to speak today about the “Inclusive Education Now” petition, which was unanimously assigned to the Teaching Committee. The initiative was launched in early summer last year by numerous well-known fighters from this area and in The result of my colleagues from SPÖ Verena Nussbaum, Petra Fürderwinkler as well as my esteemed colleague Martina Künsberg Sarre and me. For all of us, the allocation was very special, because the concern of this petition is of great importance. I have been speaking here in Parliament for two years now, and I am sure I have spoken on every second speech on inclusion for people with disabilities. I have often also mentioned that the basis for an inclusive society is an inclusive education system. I can't say it often enough: Children we allow to grow up in an inclusive setting become more sensitive and opener people. The same children will be employers and employees living in inclusion because they do not know it differently. That's where we have to go. Austria has come to know exactly this inclusive education system through the ratification of the UN Disability Convention in 2008. Inclusion means that no one should be excluded from shared life, learning and work. In order to ensure full participation for people with disabilities in all social areas, money is needed. In one case, all experts agree: Nice words don't help. What helps is sufficient resources. Resources are needed to ensure that sufficient teachers' hours are available in the regular schools so that the necessary support staff is available from all sides so that sufficient kindergartens, places in the 11th and 12th places are available. School year, the necessary medical care in school, the assistance in the educational field and much more are available in order to create incentive systems for regular schools to set up inclusive education, and including school development processes of the regular schools, so that the objectives of the UN Disability Convention can be implemented instead of the current lack management. I am convinced that we all benefit from an inclusive education system, so I support the “INCLUSIVE EDUCATION NOW” petition and the demand for at least EUR 100 million for an inclusive education system. I will not be tired of stressing that inclusion – not only of people with disabilities – concerns us all, but we have been sitting on the replacement bench for years and should finally get into action. With the implementation of the demands from this petition, we can write history in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29845	The next speaker is Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The petition concerning ‘Plot free! More space for pupils transporting on the occasion” is an important topic. In fact, the title is wrong, because especially in the On-the-spot traffic must already have an assigned place for every passenger, but not in the road transport sector, and it is precisely this that makes up a large part of the student transport. There three children under the age of 14 count as two persons, and under six years are not counted at all – actually an unsustainable condition. This may seem to be quite reasonable in urban traffic at low speeds, but at the latest in the case of overlanding, the availability ceases, because already loose objects in the vehicle can be shot at It will be the For example, an average heavy school bag with 5 kilograms with a 50-hour-kilometre crash achieves a impact weight of approximately 250 kilograms. This value is of course even higher at higher speeds. As far as passengers are concerned, it is as follows: Those who can't reach the grips over their heads, and many young students can't, have no chance to keep their own body weight at a hit. He then becomes the inside of the vehicle himself. Remedial action can only be taken if each passenger is assigned his or her own seat. There is no doubt that more buses are needed – and that means no doubt more money. We find the higher costs in the interests of the safety of our young people to be acceptable, but the government fractions obviously do not, for noticing means saying that the concern is silent, noting that it is shubbling. Then the motto “cost it what it wants ” seems to be not true when it comes to the safety of our youth. Because you want to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, it will continue to be especially dangerous for journeys across the country to use public transport – that cannot be what we all want!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29908	Mr Nikolaus Prinz, speaking, was mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29933	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Shortly before the last meeting of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: The ‘INCLUSIVE EDUCATION NOW’ petition has been allocated to the teaching committee and will be discussed accordingly. Mr Fierce has already given an opinion on this, and I assume that Mr Hamann will, of course, deal with it in terms of content. I mean, it's just important to think about where inclusion makes sense, where there may be boundaries, and what's really the most useful way for children with disabilities. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: everywhere!]] When I personally think of the special educational institution in Langenstein, I think that is a very good way to support and support the children accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] It makes sense to deepen these considerations in the Committee on Education, which is why the allocation has also been made. The following statement is already important to me: Taking note of the petition committee does not mean drawering, but in many areas it means further development – but in principle one takes note of the concern once and it continues to work on content. Dear colleague Christian Ries, what you have just mentioned on the subject of student transport: In reality, every autumn the theme comes up at school, and there are also ongoing improvements by additional buses, which is the decisive thing. There's something going on, too. Of course, this will cost extra money, for example, from the family compensation fund. I can say a few words on the petitions regarding “lawfulness of uncompetitive village shops in rural areas” or “guaranteing extensive self-sufficiency with domestic food”. It is clear that: There is, in fact, legal certainty where rural village shops are concerned. Other things may require some further development, for which time may not be quite as ripe, for example when it comes to opening hours or business regulations. In all, regional provision makes sense. One thing you have to consider when it comes to the local food: There are, logically, areas – especially beef and partly milk products – in which there is a massive surplus production, more than we “use” in Austria, under quotation marks. But there are also other areas in which there are still opportunities, so to speak, in which relatively much is done to enable more domestic production. One must not forget, however: In the end, the domestic rural families must compete with other countries, and we must look at the conditions under which we can produce, for example, turkey meat, duck meat or other products. If we want regional food, the consumer, or we have to be prepared to pay a little more for it. With regional food, value added remains in the region. One important point here is food labelling. The responsibility lies with the Minister of Health and there is much positive on the way. Every consumer, every consumer knows when shopping: Where the AMA seal is on it, Austria is in it, I have the certainty of independent control. Finally, we create value added in our own region with the purchase of domestic food, ensuring jobs and guaranteeing the preservation of the cultural landscape, which is important to us all. In this sense, it is reasonable for us all to do something together.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e29978	Mrs Petra Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30003	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the issue of education once again, because since the beginning of the Corona crisis, construction sites in the education sector have become more obvious day by day. Especially when you look at the current test chaos in schools and in childcare facilities, it becomes clear how much the children suffer from the current situation. This concerns all children and young people, but especially those who need special support, and they are far too little in focus. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria has been committed to an inclusive education system since the ratification of the UN Disability Convention in 2008. Mr Führer mentioned it earlier: However, implementation is inadequate, there is no resources at all corners and ends to provide adequate care for children with special needs in general education. I therefore, of course, support the ‘INCLUSIVE EDUCATION NOW’ petition and its allocation to the Teaching Committee. The EUR 100 million required for an inclusive education system must be made available as soon as possible. In principle, we should invest in our education system, and with educational institutions I also mean childcare facilities such as kindergartens and cribs. It is time for these institutions to finally be considered as what they are: They are educational institutions for our children! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore also like to draw attention to the current petition on ‘1.2 billion for the right to child care NOW!’: We demand that: to create the legal conditions for a legal right to a full-day, full-year, contribution-free and comprehensive childcare and child rearing from the first year of life as well as afternoon care and to ensure the development of all-day schools. Support for this petition is possible at any time on Parliament's homepage. Finally, I would like to thank all the educators, elementary teachers and staff in the various educational institutions. I often have conversations with you and can only say: You are doing great things in these times! I can promise you that we will not stop fighting so you can get the resources and support you need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30051	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30072	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to talk about student traffic. Mr Kollross, what we are agreeing on here in the House, I believe, is that there is a need for more resources for bus and train, that there is a need for more bus traffic in the regions, that the last mile in particular is crucial that more infrastructure is needed in particular at the time of impact. For us Greens, however, it is also important that the conditions for bus and train fit. As far as safety is concerned, I believe that it is also very possible if bus and rail, in this case also bus transport, have traffic calming conditions, including, of course, speed and infrastructure in the communities. At this point I would like to express my thanks to all the councillors and mayors who are already increasingly committed to bus transport in their regions. I think this is important and necessary so that the Federal Mobility Master Plan can work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Should there be a number of problems in impact times, as described by Mr Kollross and Mr Ries, so that there are overfills in bus traffic: Of course, as the Association of Transports, the Community and the Federal Government are required to take the corresponding measures, I can say from the experience in my home community that it is not the rule that becomes a problem, but the overcrowded bus is the problem. What does it need? – To do this, we need reinforcements, more infrastructure, more resources. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For this, ladies and gentlemen, we also provide federal initiatives. I refer to the climate ticket, pointing out that we are paying EUR 100 million annually for regional tickets to all federal states. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is up to the federal states to decide how much of this million euros goes into collective support and how much resources: How much do you invest in extra bus traffic? How much investment is being made in support of tariffs? There are good examples in the federal states, wherever this is done. Especially in Tyrol – I say this because I am a Tyrolean myself – we have decided that we will invest half of these funds in the tariff support – we will also have a ticket for U26 from March on – and the other half will invest in the resources, especially in bus and train. This is necessary, and I believe that this is much more done than if you screw around on counting rules, even if the occasional traffic – Mr Ries has already pointed out – is quite different from the regular traffic. There is the problem that there are, of course, seats in the regular traffic, but also pitches. In the Motorways Act, it is also stated that an amplifier bus needs to be exceeded if the approval limits are exceeded. So there's no question: The counting rule also does not use anything, but it needs additional resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30136	Mr Christian Lausch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30160	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As in the Committee itself, we will not vote in favour of the collective report. I justify this as follows: It's been said a lot. Only a petition, the petition concerning ‘INKLUSIVE EDUCATION NOW’, has managed to be assigned to the technical committee. Of course, it is gratifying, important and correct, but other important petitions from our point of view have not succeeded. That's already been mentioned. The petition regarding “guaranteing extensive self-sufficiency with domestic food” did not succeed, but was merely taken note of. Much has already been done to the petition concerning “Platz Frei! More space for children transport in the on-the-spot traffic” said. The petition “Stop cancer at work – prevent human suffering from unaccepted occupational diseases” was also noted only. It should be noted that drawerisation is the exception, and the assignment in the respective specialist committee should be the rule. As long as it is predominant that it is done exactly the opposite, as long as the rule is taken to the attention and only in rare cases is assigned to the specialist committees, we will keep it in such a way that we look at the collection reports very carefully and, most of the time, we have discussed this in the group, we will refuse to approve these collective reports, because it is not so easy. This is simply not the way to deal with important issues. If Mr. Prince says it will be further developed anyway: Nothing else is being developed in the Committee on Petitions. Further development can be done in the respective specialist committee, and I am therefore personally sorry that only one petition has been assigned to the technical committee and that everything else has shubbled once again. That is why we will not vote in favour of this collective report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30193	Next speaker is Hans Stefan Hintner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30218	Mr President. High house! We have also agreed to the request for inclusion and are also in favour of talking about improvements in this area, discussing them but also implementing them. In principle, two findings: For me, inclusion means equal participation in social life. There I am, as a Murdlinger mayor, As mayor of the school town of Mödling with the largest higher school in Europe – 3,600 pupils, 400 teachers – with more than 10,000 students in the city proud that on the one hand we have a diverse offer, on the other hand, facilities such as the life support that Caritas has. Because I'm watching Gabi Heinisch-Hosek: He knows that, who knows to what extent the clients of life aid live in murder with us. When two years ago the living aid had to do reconstruction work in her residential home in Friedrich Schiller-Straße/Eisentorgasse, the responsible ones continued to decide for Mödling, although they could have built somewhere else at great real estate prices. No, they have built in the relatively expensive town of Mödling, in the middle of the city, as well as the Caritas in the middle of the city with their clients, because they are part of the middle of society, including in our common life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased that we are in very good contact with Fritzi Pospischil – that is the chairman of the Lebenshil Niederösterreich – as far as the needs of people with special needs are concerned. There's a rainy exchange. The second finding for me is: Even if we now equip schools with millions of euros, with new educators and educators, the main burden, the financial, the caretaker, the organisational burden on this question still have the parents. That is why we should all consider together how we can relieve parents. Inclusions in education are different. There are different gifts, different handicaps. Therefore, one will have to estimate the extent to which there are ways of inclusion. As a municipality of Mödling, we have always tried on the community level to go already in kindergartens including paths, and you can believe me: It is not very easy to bring autistic children into an inclusive kindergarten and care for them there. At this point I can also break a lance for our special schools. We discussed in Lower Austria a few years ago whether to abolish the special schools in principle. Embarrassment went through parenthood. The parents were with me, with many other mayors and countrymen in speaking hours and said: Our children feel so well taken up there – there you can do school degrees et cetera – please don't do that! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That is why I do not see a place for practical and life-long equaliser ideology on this issue, but it is a matter of putting the child's well-being at the centre of inclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30281	Michael Seemayer is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30305	Mr President. High house! I would like to take a very brief look at a petition that deals with health at work. The petition “Stop cancer at work – prevent human suffering from unaccepted occupational diseases!” has been mentioned very briefly. Many businesses in Austria are still working with cancer-producing substances, partly because there are no better alternatives. These carcinogens However, substances also cause occupational diseases, and these occupational diseases kill around 1,800 people each year in Austria. It takes effective protection if you have to work with such substances. Prevention measures are needed and current limit values for these harmful substances are needed. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The applicants of the petition looked at the list of occupational diseases and found that in Austria there are far fewer occupational diseases than Germany, namely only 53 positions, unlike the German list, in which over 80 positions are included. If you look at the list, you notice that it has not been evaluated and not updated for years. There is a need for a scientifically sound update of this list of occupational diseases in order to include diseases that may have occurred just a short time ago that the cause is a carcinogenic substance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The petition's Signatories therefore call for a scientific evaluation of the Austrian list of recognised occupational diseases and for a comprehensive strategy to protect workers from dangerous substances and hazardous working conditions. It also calls for a binding introduction of current and risk-based limit values. Mr Lausch has already mentioned it: It is also a petition that has only been taken note of. We would have been in favour of assigning to the technical committee, because it is precisely such important issues that it should be looked at and discussed in detail in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30357	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30378	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen. A few words from me to the petition “Inclusive Education Now”. I would like to start by thanking the initiators and initiators of this petition, who once again pointed to an extremely important fundamental right, namely that all children have a right to education, of course children with disabilities, not to any education, but to equal education in an inclusive and high-quality common education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There have been – and the petition is quite right – long phases of the standstill in recent years and decades. To date, only about two thirds of children with disabilities are in an inclusive class. This is often associated with an obstacle run for parents or sometimes with additional costs, and the conditions are not always ideal. There's got to go a little further! That is what we Greens have written on the flags, and we understand this as our mission. A few things have already been done in the National Action Plan on Disability, which is currently under way. I'm just saying a few words: In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the European Council meeting in Brussels, the European Council of the Ministers for Education, Research and Technology in the field of Education and Technology in the field of research and technological development is a key factor in the development of the European Union. also to a new career, the school education courses, which can play a very important role, also in the support of children, for example with chronic diseases. In total, you can say: Many of these projects will have to work together: Federal Government, countries, communities, NGOs, civil society, families, and many people will have to move in order to go a little further. I am therefore pleased that we have succeeded in referring this petition to the Committee on Education and that the debate will continue there. I can promise you that as a green person we will do everything we can to push there, because in the end inclusion is only possible together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30429	No one is reporting on this. The debate is over. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we go into the voting process? . We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 1279 of the supplements relating to petitions 37, 39, 43, 53, 57 and 63. Whoever does this may be granted a sign of consent. – This is the majority, accepted. Thank you. [[21:05:32]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on Central Matura – BUND 2020/22 series (III-149/1197, D.B.) 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on day-care for pupils; Follow-up review – BUND 2021/26 series (III-361/1199 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on education for children and young people with experience in fleeing – series BUND 2019/12 (III-28/1201 D.B.) 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the European Social Fund: Promotions in schools and adult education – series BUND 2019/32 (III-47/1203 d.b.) 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on HTL Spengergasse – BUND 2020/35 series (III-184/1207, D.B.) 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on Erasmus+ Education and Higher Education – Series BUND 2020/36 (III-185/1208 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30521	We now come to the items 15 to 20 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30551	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The President of the Court of Auditors has just arrived. It is about the audit of the Court of Auditors on the central matura. For decades, the introduction of a uniform and equal-opportunity Matura was discussed in Austria and fought for it. The aim was to increase the quality of the mature test and to ensure that clauses are centrally created. The Court of Auditors reviewed from November 2018 to February 2019 the introduction of the Central Matura by the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research in the countries of Carinthia and Upper Austria. The objective of the examination was to examine the fulfilment of the objectives, the legal basis, the organisational processes, the use of personnel and, of course, the costs. The period covered by the examination was 2014 to 2018. The Court of Auditors has made 38 recommendations which went directly to the Ministry. The clauses are currently being drawn up centrally in four subjects: in German, in living foreign languages, in classical languages and in the field of mathematics in the AHS and the Applied Mathematics in the BHS. One of the main criticisms of the Court of Auditors was that the teachers of the final classes corrected all the written – also centrally prepared – work on the interpretation. According to the Court of Auditors, this is contrary to the objective of the Central Matura, according to which maximum objectivity and comparability should be guaranteed. In mathematics in particular, there have been challenges and problems, which have been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors. The data material was, I say, subject to very strong fluctuations. Overall, the incidence rates in these tests ranged from 11 to 23 percent. The field of mathematics – the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has clearly explained this in the Committee – was the first area to be evaluated and put on a better basis. The tests were too textual, and especially for the matura candidates with migration background, the tasks were difficult to understand. The Court of Auditors has also reflected the costs, since there are quite differences. A total of 7 million euros are spent on the central matura. In German there were about 37 000 candidates, which means per maturant, per capita cost of 10 euros. In ancient Greek it was only 20 testers, which means cost of 1,600 euros per head. The Court of Auditors has already asked, as I believe, whether there are central audits that make sense at all. Overall, the project has developed further, it works. I believe that 75 percent of the Court's recommendations have already been implemented, and it will continue to work to improve the quality of the central matura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30599	I should like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors quite warmly. Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30624	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too will refer to the Central Matura. What has been the positive result of the Central Matura report? – That the performance assessment spectrum is another, it is not just the focus on a single test. As a problem with the central matura, the score scheme has shown itself in the evaluation. The Performance Assessment Regulation is the reason for this. In the meantime, it has been renovated; it was rather designed for the entire class, but not exactly for the central matura. What was the problem? – For example, for mathematics, 57 percent of the total number of points has been needed to cut down positively, 60 percent for a living foreign language; after the reorganisation of this Regulation, 51 percent of the possible points are now sufficient to be adequately assessed. We discussed the digital maturity test with Mr. Fässmann, who was no longer Federal Minister two days later. The question was, until when this project will be fully implemented. He called us 2025, taking into account the central assessment. This is still being done by the class teachers, but in the sense of an objective assessment it is of course useful to have that centrally corrected. A point of discussion was the incidence rate, especially in mathematics; the colleague has mentioned it briefly. What can you do about it? – This is really also a requirement that we as a SPÖ group repeatedly introduce and underline: Promotion offer as continuous and early as possible, namely not only underage, during the school year, but above all in the form of summer schools. Unfortunately, in teaching with Matura, it has been shown that the diarrhoea rate is particularly high, which is very unfortunate. This is actually an important project, not only for the whole economy, but above all with the focus on reducing the shortage of skilled workers. We discussed what we could do about it. We have then come to the conclusion that companies that really provide qualification will be rewarded by promoting – that was the proposal of the Minister – but only those who really provide qualification. The Court of Auditors has set and identified a number of impulses to improve the education system. Ladies and gentlemen! I think one must be important to all of us: Especially now that we see the impact of the corona pandemic among students very, very strong – they are sometimes very massive – it must above all be the goal of the new Minister of Education, but also our concern as a legislative body to ensure that, for example, the school social work is properly equipped. A request and an urgent appeal to the Federal Minister: Please make more sense of the digitalization offensive! Some classes have been waiting for fixed laptops since the beginning of the offensive. This is clearly too slow. More speed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30669	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, I've got you on the list.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30690	I thought Mr. Brückl was still in front of me, but good. Mr President. Madam President, I would like to start by expressing my thanks for your work, which gives us constant impetus and which, at the end of the day, makes the policy that we are doing here much better. I would like to say a few words on the report on day-care for students, which is why They actually put their fingers in one of the very big wounds of our system. If we look at day care and the school forms in Austria all day, we see a huge mess of actors – federal government, countries, communities, associations – we have a little bit of regulations, we have a carpet that also has large gaps, and probably a lot of money is lost; I suspect that the President has looked at this quite carefully. That is, there is a lot to do in this field, because the goal must be clear: that children and families receive comprehensive quality, reliable and also manageable day care, where you not only learn something but also have fun at the same time. One of the major projects is therefore to address some of these recommendations, especially in terms of sustainable financing, but also of a comprehensive offer. That is already in the government programme. I would like to present a concrete step which has already been taken under Minister Fässmann: This is the targeted appreciation of leisure education in the direction of a new professional image of pedagogical assistance. There should be a new, more uniform training, for professionals who can then be used in the morning and afternoon, so that leisure and teaching can be thought together; these people are also integrated into the educational team at the site and are assigned their posts by the education departments. This makes the system more clear, allows planning, targeted control and probably also better working conditions. This is, as one can already imagine, a rather large construction site, which we are opening up there, but which I hope we will continue to carry on. I would like to thank you for giving us good additional arguments for this project and a clear mandate to it. We're gonna stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30728	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30749	Mr President. Madam President. I would like to join my previous speaker: Thank you very much for the always excellent reports, including your employees; we discussed this in great detail in the Committee at that time. I would like to take a short look at the central matura and on one of the subsequent agenda items, referring to the care conditions and teaching at the University of Graz and at the WU. Yes, you have discussed and picked up some important points that we always address, that the central matura is actually not as central as it seems to the name that not all tasks are centrally assigned or created and are not at all centrally corrected, whatever we critically question. As regards compensation tests after negative examinations, they have argued that they do not take place centrally, and we suggest – and we could do so well – a written examination in order to ensure comparability and standardisation, which is of course useful. From our point of view – and I have mentioned this in the committee; the then Minister said that he does not see that there will be no changes – it is so that the central matura in subjects where very few occur, such as Greek – Mr Gahr has already mentioned – causes immense costs per capita. It simply raises the question of whether one does not focus on the essential subjects in which most occur, and the remaining subjects continue to decentralize. The department in the Ministry of Education, which deals with the topic of central matura, is now huge. That's, I think, also questioning. It would be important and exciting to know, of course, how the new minister sees it – the then minister said he does not see any need for change – and how, above all, the next matura years can prepare for it. Now very briefly to the teaching and care conditions at the two universities: There is actually the main point, that: They encourage the Ministry of Science to establish the conditions of care at public universities to the OECD summit field and to take measures. There I see under this government both on the ÖVP side and on the sides, especially the Greens, no efforts at all to develop these care conditions in the right direction. – Thank you for your work anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30791	The rapporteur was Mr Brandweiner. – No, it is not possible, the President of the Court of Auditors is speaking now. First, ask the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30813	Mr President. High house! On today's agenda, which is a little later, a large part of the audit work of the Court of Auditors is also devoted to important legislative acts. There are 23 reports on the agenda and eight of these reports have been discussed at the meetings of the Court of Auditors. Mr Fässmann, the Federal Minister for Education, also reports on the university sector, and two days ago with Mrs Köstinger reports from the agricultural sector. The other reports on the agenda are also for your work and for the support of parliamentary work. I invite you to get all these reports to mind and to use them for your work here in the House accordingly. As has been said, the focus of the issues on the agenda today is a broad one. He spreads from the school and education sector across the universities and the field of research and science communication, as well as risk management in agriculture, forest research and settlement water management. There are also a number of follow-up reviews on the agenda, and these are a picture of what the implementation looks like. The central matura has already been addressed. Let me briefly address the central matura in this first block, which the Court of Auditors has examined: The Central Matura was introduced in 2015, initially to the AHS and then to further schools. The examination refers to the time before the Covid Pandemic, so Covid-related reliefs that existed in the previous year were not subject to this examination. We looked at whether the step towards standardisation was successful. The maturity test consists of three parts: the prescientific work, a written clause and an oral examination. We have noted that it has succeeded in achieving the objective of objectivity and the comparability of performance in principle; we also consider it appropriate. A final step was not taken – consistently thought – because, I say now, it would be a central correction of the interpretation work. This will continue to take place on a decentralised basis. In order to take this further step, there was or, I believe, there is no political consensus. For the Court of Auditors, cost aspects were essential in the audit. We have found that the annual effort for the central matura was more than twice as high as estimated at the time of the introduction. There was still 3.55 million euros, it has become around 7 million euros for job creation and delivery. The task creation process is complex, it is extensive, it takes two years. The development of mathematics tasks for the 2019 Maturatermin began in the school year 2016/2017. There are 16 process steps that are very complex, and each task went through numerous quality loops. In total, the Ministry of the Development of the Tasks used almost as many human resources as for quality assurance itself. We have said this critically. In addition, external experts from the tertiary field were also involved. All of this was very complicated and cost-intensive. We have also seen and recorded a difference between mandated and actually needed matura examples. There was also a lack of an overview of the examples available; unused examples have also been eliminated. It has already been mentioned: The costs for secondary appointments and subjects with few candidates are relatively high, of course. We have said that it would be useful to analyse the costs and benefits of the by- and compensation dates accordingly. With regard to the cost factor – we have mentioned the example of Ancient Greek compared to German – the question arises of how useful it is with the central design when only a few candidates arrive. The resulting fluctuations in mathematics are known. We welcomed the fact that the Federal Minister has set up a reform group on mathematics by the Ministry of Education. Our recommendation was aimed at analysing the causes of these fluctuations in results. There is also a gender difference between girls and boys. In mathematics, it is always about the question of what the standard is, and this standard must be clarified once and for all. We have also seen a critical increase in staff expenditure, an increase of 24 percent. In 2016, the preliminary work on the Central Matura was essentially completed, but staff expenditure continued to increase by 2018. We believe that there are opportunities for more resource-saving. In this respect, the digital maturity test would also be a topic. It was also pointed out that there is a high drop-out quota in teaching with Matura. There should be measures to raise the success rate. For day care: The legal basis is the Education Investment Act. There, the target values were changed. The objective must be a comprehensive offer. With regard to the care situation, we were able to see an increase of 38 percent in school day care for students. In primary schools, day care has increased from 20 to 50 percent; in secondary schools, the increase was rather small. In the AHS sublevels there was an increase of just over 10 percent, as the target value of 40 percent, which exists, was also not achieved in Weitem. I am convinced that in secondary school I, especially at the age of ten to 14 years olds, it is a matter of meaningful and educationally demanding schooling for children. There has been no change in the division of competence in this area. This is unwaveringly complex and thus makes it difficult for the target-oriented expansion. A consideration would also be given, and today you have extended the financial compensation to integrate day-care in the sense of sustainable funding into the financial compensation system in order to reduce the complexity accordingly. The leisure educators have already been addressed: There seems to be reflections here to improve this, namely the staffing of these educators. In spite of the federal recommendation, there was a disunity between the countries regarding the care contributions during the first lockdown, and the summer school was half-day. In this sense, I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30898	Members of the Brandweiner are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30919	Mr President. Madam President, (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! In 2016, the Court of Auditors examined the Ministry of Education, the Salzburg and Vienna Councils of State, as well as the State of Salzburg and the City of Vienna as regards day care for students. I would also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and her whole team at this point. The President-in-Office mentioned a number of things. Among other things, the different responsibilities for school and non-school care, the development of the number of pupils to be cared for, as well as the pedagogical aspects and the quality of day care were the aim of this examination. In the follow-up review to be discussed here, the Court of Auditors considered the degree of implementation of a total of 16 recommendations, which were given to the Ministry. Overall, the Court of Auditors has found that four of the recommendations given, five in part and six in part, have not been implemented. The implementation of a recommendation has already been assured by the Ministry. There is an essential criticism regarding the diversity of influences and the lack of an overall overview – the President has referred to it – of the coordinated use of funds at the federal, state and local level. It should also be noted that the Education Reform Act 2017 has taken steps to install a comprehensive view. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as we are on the subject of day care, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all teachers, teachers, kindergarten teachers, but also all directors. Especially in the time of the pandemic, great things have been done by them, and especially in the phase of the lockdowns, the need for care has increased. That's where everyone got together, and it's really a big thank you. I would also like to give a positive example: In my constituency, in the Waldviertel, very many communities are trying to install day care. However, there are already show projects, for example, Lower Austrian childcare, where at 13 locations children aged six months to twelve years are cared for in the morning as well as in the afternoon. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] There are educational opportunities such as English and Fit for the school, creative lessons and musical focus round off the offer. The children are cared for by educational staff. This is guided by a mayor in my constituency, by Roland Zimmer, who makes this voluntary as an obscene, and I would of course like to thank myself very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the hope that many such initiatives will follow, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking forward to the next future. There's a lot to do. I also thank the Federal Government, first and foremost Federal Chancellor Karl Nehammer, for making a lot of money available for this. I am sure that we will be able to implement many positive projects in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e30965	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Would the rapporteurs like a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the debates on the submissions of the Court of Auditors. [[21:31:43]] 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on research and science communication – series BUND 2019/41 (III-56/1198 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on teaching and care – University of Graz and Economic University of Vienna – BUND 2021/35 series (III-437/1200 d.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on selected foundations at the Austrian Academy of Sciences; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/18 (III-33/1202 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on Smart Minerals GmbH – BUND series 2019/38 (III-53/1204 d.B.) 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on Geological Federal Institute – BUND 2020/13 series (III-106/1205 d.b.) 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on accreditation and public financing of private universities – BUND 2020/26 series (III-163/1206, D.B.) 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report on Human and Dentistry Intakes – Series BUND 2020/47 (III-212/1209 d.b.) 28. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the management of research infrastructure – BUND 2021/14 series (III-290/1210, e.g.) 29. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on university participation in business – Medical University of Vienna and University of Linz; Follow-up review – BUND 2021/34 series (III-431/1211 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31075	We come to points 21 to 29 of the agenda on which the debates will be carried out again under one. These are reports of the Committee of the Regions. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31103	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2019, the Court of Auditors examined the teaching and care conditions at the University of Graz and at the University of Vienna. The care conditions, we all know, are an essential factor for good study, and especially the accessibility of professors – for courses, for information, for questions about the degree course or also for questions about the final work – is essential. The view that care conditions need to be improved, I believe, is something that is quite a part of us in this House. The only question is where you're going. One way would be to finance more staff, more professorships, that there is more money for Austrian universities. This has already been a major concern for us in 2017, which is why at the time we also tabled a request on this subject, which found a majority in this House, but unfortunately without the votes of the ÖVP. This request for an increase in the service agreements at Austria's universities is now being implemented gradually, and that is certainly a positive point. Access schemes, and the Court of Auditors have also noted, have also improved the conditions of support for students where access restrictions have been introduced. The question is only at what price. In our opinion, social selection must never be a criterion for whether I take up a study or not – social selection must never be a criterion to gain entry to a university. Unfortunately, access restrictions increasingly result in children from academic households having an advantage and children from non-academic families being simply thrown a stone in front of their feet. We want to clear this stone out of the way, and not just that: A university should really be there for all, including for professionals and for older students. This ensures diversity at the universities, which we already have and which we want to expand even further. We have shown vehemently the last year when we voted against the university law. The universities are also facing other challenges: Students have few social contacts, perhaps have not been able to make contact with other college colleagues, because they are fresh studies and de facto almost never attended the university. That is why I would like to express my great thanks, not to the Federal Government, but to the Austrian student community, because it was the one who decided and set up a corona hardfall fund again last week. It has set up a helpline that offers anonymous and free help, and much more. I think that in the last two years, the ÖH has done a lot of work or is trying to break down, which has unfortunately not been done to this extent by the Ministry. If the Minister of Education were here today, I would also give him a second topic: Students, teachers and parents are currently very scared, they are insecure. I think we all have to pull one strand. The search must not simply run through Austrian schools. On the other hand, we must be vehement. Unfortunately, the PCR tests do not work outside of Vienna at all, and there is above all the fault of the Ministry, which apparently has given a bidder community the task, which simply does not bring it into line.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31145	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31166	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Appreciate Seers! The Court of Auditors reviewed the effectiveness of research and science communication in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Infrastructure as information to citizens. According to a 2013 European Commission survey, around 69 percent of Austrians did not feel informed about science. To change this, the three ministries carried out various projects to create a broader awareness of science and research. As the Court of Auditors His report lacks common strategies. There was no coordinated resolution at all in various information campaigns. It's a bit strange. If not even communication between the individual ministries works, it is all the more difficult to bring the Austrians closer to research and science. I therefore hope that the Court of Auditors' recommendations will be implemented soon. Citizens should be properly informed about science and research. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing we all know: Austria needs more research and science, because both are important for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31199	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31220	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers, viewers in front of the screens! I would like to follow up on the point of my previous speaker with regard to the public relations of the three ministries responsible for science and research. There has been a very well-founded, as I believe, and good criticism from the Court of Auditors. As we have already discussed or discussed in the Committee, in my view, it is much more important to consider the role of universities, the research institutions. After all, almost 62 million euros have been spent during the review period – this is not so little money. I do not think that scientific communication is the task of the ministries; to communicate science should lie with those who do scientific work. This can, of course, be done at very many levels. I had a conversation today with the Minister of Science and Education, and we agreed that, not least in view of Corona, we must invest very strongly in order to inspire the people who live in Austria for science. There have always been events like the Long Night of Research, but of course these are only snapshots. Traditionally, it is so that it is in Austria – how am I supposed to say? – very little interest in the results of science and research, although we all benefit from it. A short second note – Mr Holzleitner referred to this: In my opinion, in the case of the care conditions, a basic problem lies in the calculation or average calculation, which ultimately says little about the actual care conditions in the individual study areas, although I think we all agree that, especially in subjects such as Jus, the care relationship is still to be improved. Perhaps a final sentence on the Court of Auditors: At this point, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors very much for their meticulous and excellent work, and ask the President of the Commission to set up their staff. By the way, I am still in favour of renaming the Windisch barracks to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31271	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? – That does not seem to be the case. We shall put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[21:41:00]] 30. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on public risk management for agriculture – series BUND 2020/43 (III-200/1318 d.b.) 31. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Research and Training Centre for Forest, Natural Risks and Landscape – BUND 2020/16 series (III-130/1319 e.g.) 32. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the College of Agricultural and Environmental Pedagogy; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/34 (III-49/1323 d.b.) 33. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on EAFRD: establishment and operation of clusters and networks; Follow-up review – BUND 2021/32 series (III-429/1325 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31333	We come to points 30 to 33 of the agenda. The debates will be conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. The word stands with him. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31360	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture is increasingly exposed to natural events and elementary events. The number of damage events is increasing. Of course, there has always been natural disasters, on the one hand, and on the other hand, due to climate change, there are more and more forms of damage, through hail, heavy rain, extreme heat, drought. Also in the case of animal diseases – if I may mention swine fever – there are repeated and more and more damage events that need to be covered. Our Federal Government takes relatively much money in order to make possible the risk prevention of farmers, farmers' farms. The Court of Auditors has reviewed public risk management in agriculture from June to October 2019, including, of course, those who have become a universal insurance service provider as a small element insurer in recent years and are now available as a service provider for agriculture. A total of four points were reviewed: the basics and objectives as well as the legal framework of public risk management in agriculture, the grant of insurance premiums, the assistance measures after damage events, and the promotion of advice and training for risk prevention and risk management. The period under review shall cover the years 2014 to 2018. A total of 29 final recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. There have actually been two main criticisms, Madam President. On the one hand, there were transparency and control rights to which the Court of Auditors has critically expressed itself – I do not think there is a legal basis at present – and on the other hand, it was the EU funding that was not collected. In the future, we will produce and process food and food in Austria, and the consumer will be able to enjoy local food. I believe that we need a comprehensive supply of risk. At present, this is funded by the state with just over 60 million euros, and the funding is 50 percent of the countries and 50 percent of the federal government. A thanks to all farmers, a thanks also to hail insurance. I think we need to further develop the system. We are in the situation that we simply need a risk management that works and in the event of damage comprehensively and specifically helps. In this sense, I think this is a great institution, and the Court of Auditors' recommendations will help to develop it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31402	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31424	I refer briefly to public risk management in agriculture. What does that mean? – This means systematic handling of risks that exist, for example, in connection with extreme weather, with animal diseases, with the aim of minimising damage. What makes it possible to minimize damage? – For example, by granting grants, for example, through grants to insurance premiums, the key word hail insurance. The report raised a very interesting point: It has been noted that between 2014 and 2020, payments from the Federal Government and the Länder for insurance premiums increased by 57 percent. This is already unique, and I actually do not know any other area that could be compared with it. Why was that? – The federal government and countries pay, but the possibility is neglected or not perceived to collect EU funds. Why is that so? – There have been two reasons for this. On the one hand, this was the high administrative burden, on the other hand the high level of control. I would like to make sure that the administrative burden is still valid, but there are certainly also officials who can do this really well. What I do not make apply is the control effort that is too high. Why not? – Interestingly, because the report also shows – and this was a very important point that was illuminated – that the billing checks are more than worthy of improvement both in the Ministry of Finance, which was previously responsible, and now in the Ministry of Agriculture. Why? – In 2014 and 2015, there was no audit data collected by the Ministry at all. In 2016, the list of supported establishments was missing, the list was not checked in 2017 – Mr. Gahr finds it funny – and the controls were not completed in 2018 and 2019. So far – and this is already remarkable – there is no control concept. The strategy group should now take care of this, and I can repeat the opinion of the President of the Court of Auditors here, which I share 100%. She said: Yes, it is a good step to put control concepts on the table, but it is important that the controls follow de facto as well. – That's why we're doing it and we hope for it, of course. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a point that is really going through all the subject areas again and again: the weak data situation. Again, there was hardly any usable data in this report. Why? – This unclear data was caused by conceptual ambiguities. I think this can really be solved, that it is clear what risk management and risk prevention are for. You should fix that. Why? – With the aim of being able to derive genuinely good measures and improvement measures from the data provided. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31475	Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31496	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Among other things, the review of the AMA marketing was on the agenda. The AMA marketing as a advertising platform for farmers is undoubtedly an important institution which is also looking for the same thing in the European comparison – especially in Austria, where we have a high concentration of food retailing, extremely important in order to be able to resist anything. However, the fact that the AMA marketing as an institution is partially financed by the Farmers' Federal Heritage Festival with lump sums only shows the importance of auditing the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, it must also be said that AMA marketing has largely implemented the Court’s recommendations. What interests me as a farmer, however, is: How does the AMA marketing work and how does it work? For example, there is the AMA seal and the AMA seal meat, where farmers have absolutely to fulfil conditions during production, but there is hardly any conditions for the marketing of this meat. This means that there is also AMA seal meat in the shelves, which in the form of actions under the maintenance price goes over the loading table. It is actually not understandable if this works through an advertising platform financed by farmers. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Even more terrifying is a video that has been played to me today, a video of the landfill of a food group, where hundreds of pounds of vacuumed meat goods have been thrown away, just a short while – hundreds of pounds of meat, including AMA seal meat. There's one thing I think: If we put every third bull we produce on the courts, then we don't have to talk about the CO2 emissions anymore! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We will not fight climate change, so we will not fight the structural change of agriculture. Since trade itself is not acting, it will require legal regulations for both problems: for the sale of meat under the price of the food, and for the disposal of the food. We're going to take this – I'm standing here for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31563	The President of the Court of Auditors is now on the floor. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31584	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking you for your comments on the reports on research and science communication and on teaching and care at universities. I would also like to thank you for highlighting the work of the Court of Auditors. Now we would like to comment briefly on our review of public risk management for agriculture. This is essentially about two measures: ex ante measures, namely the public grant of insurance premiums, and ex post is about compensation payments after damage events. To show the dimensions: In the period under review, the amount of the insurance premium is EUR 239 million and compensation payments of EUR 107 million. We have also stressed the OECD recommendations in the report. We have set out the principles for the role of the State in agricultural risk management. This is a holistic access to risk management. It is about promoting the self-responsibilities of agricultural holdings and focusing public risk prevention on catastrophic risks. Accordingly, it is also important for us to take more account of the degree of through-insurance of the cultural groups and take specific risks into account in all legislative measures relating to hail insurance. It should avoid taking-away effects and increase the incentive effects of promotion. The control concept, i.e. controls by the Ministries, has already been addressed. With regard to the audit competence of the Court of Auditors itself, it is true that we do not have any for the activities of those bodies which carry out this premium promotion and which are at the same time insurance providers. It is about that we have no competence for a resolution audit – not for the audit of companies, but for the implementation of the funding. There is an example for this, namely the example of the CCP under the Environmental Promotion Act, and we would also imagine this in the Hail Insurance Funding Act. In a short time to the Federal Research and Training Centre for Forest, Natural Risks and Landscape: This was also on the agenda of the last Committee meeting – and now here too. We believe it is important that a sustainable and sustainable financing concept is drawn up, that there is a mission critique, and that further savings targets and measures are agreed, for example as regards human resources. As for the Forestry Education Centre Traunkirchen, we will follow this up with a follow-up review. I would like to make a brief comment on the test report on the settlement water industry. This is mainly a matter of environmental and water management funds. There is an equity of EUR 1.6 billion, and in this respect we would believe that these funds will be used in the next few years. It could be used for the settlement water industry, where investments are necessary. This would also contribute to better planning for financial compensation partners. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31629	Mr Pöttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31651	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I may refer to item 31 on the Court of Auditors' report on the Federal Research and Training Centre for Forest, Natural Risks and Landscape – in brief: BFW – talk. The test period was the years 2014 to 2018, and there were some key recommendations that were formally implemented by the BFW and the Ministry already over 90 percent – a thanks goes to Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Mayer, his team and the competent staff of the Ministry. With the combination of the forest training site Ort and the Forest School Waidhofen at the Ybbs at a new location in Traunkirchen, Upper Austria, in autumn 2018 the state-of-the-art Forestry Education Centre in Europe was created. This is a lighthouse project that Dr. Mayer presented to us at the committee meeting in short form. It is a location with a lot of potential for the future. The important role of the forest in times of climate change has been demonstrated, and an important contribution will also be made to this at the Forest Campus in Austria with its protection forest center. In addition to research and training, monitoring of the Austrian forest is also the focus of activities, such as raw materials and biodiversity. In the event of a random follow-up review, as just mentioned by our Madam President, the new strategy will certainly also be reviewed. The use of land, the personnel situation and, of course, the economy will certainly play a role in this. As the total rental costs are significant, the Court of Auditors recommended that the agreed purchase option be examined, and this is currently being checked more closely. A thanks goes to the Court of Auditors for the extensive examination and a further thanks to the BFW and the Ministry for the very good handling and implementation of the recommendations. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31694	Mr Michael Seemayer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31718	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to follow up with Mr Pöttinger's remarks and briefly address the report on the Federal Research and Training Centre for Forest, Natural Risks and Landscape. There have already been some critical comments that Mr Pöttinger perhaps did not like to mention, and this has also been addressed in the examination. In the examination period, this rose by 7 percent to 277 full-time equivalents, which in principle is not a problem yet, but it has been shown that the Ministry is using the Federal Research Centre to avoid the federal personnel plan. The Federal Research Centre was entrusted with the implementation of projects involving additional staff, which is then permanently and permanently available to the Ministry. In addition, two staff members were made available to the Ministry by means of staff transfer. – Of course, this is not the purpose and purpose of a staff plan. The two locations Vienna and Traunkirchen – they have already been addressed – have also been considered. It has come to the eye that there is a very high void cost position in Traunkirchen, which of course should not be the same. Planned savings, for example by combining the two forestry schools at the Traunkirchen site, have not led to the desired result. It seems a little familiar to you – a recent Court of Auditors report on the same ministry with the same problem. The Ministry of Agriculture obviously has a very happy hand when it comes to uneconomic breakdowns and mergers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the Committee has reported that many recommendations have already been implemented and that open recommendations are also to be implemented. Whether this is the case, the follow-up report will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31770	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. The vote will be moved. [[22:00:33]] 34. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on urban water support – BUND 2020/46 series (III-211/1320 d.b.) 35. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH; Follow-up review – BUND 2020/5 series (III-93/1321 d.b.) 36. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the greening of floodwaters, second period of recovery – series BUND 2019/19 (III-34/1322 D.B.) 37. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the introduction of intelligent measuring instruments (Smart Meter) – BUND 2019/1 series (III-18/1324 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31830	We come to points 34 to 37 on which the debates are carried out again under one. The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31854	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I refer to a report by the Court of Auditors on urban water management. The report refers to the Court of Auditors' view of Austria's position in the field of drinking water supply and in the field of wastewater disposal. The basic findings – and I would like to focus on them at the beginning – are very clear: Austria has excellent infrastructure in the field of drinking water supply. This is due to the richness of the water we have in Austria. We have excellent drinking water quality, but it is of course necessary to bring this water to the households. It is true that 92 percent of the population are connected to the public drinking water network. We have a total of 81,000 kilometres of drinking water pipes. This is already a matter which, I believe, can be very, very proud in Austria. At the same time, we also have an excellent infrastructure in the field of wastewater disposal. 95 percent of the population are connected to a network of channels. We have a total of 93 000 kilometres of channel network, which is fed into a total of 1 836 plants. The basis for this is – and you have to see the responsibilities – primarily, of course, the municipalities responsible for the urban water industry in Austria: the municipalities, community associations, also public cooperatives – at this point really a great thanks to the local work, because the mayor, the chairman of an association, knows best how to organize drinking water supply and waste water disposal. The interplay in the local authorities, of course at country level – there you can also set regional priorities – but especially at the federal level, at the Water Economic Fund, really works very well. In the Court of Auditors, I remember, we talked about the fact that the Water Economic Fund is so much the mother of all funding. The interaction of the local authorities is really excellent, and I believe that in Austria we can really be proud of this infrastructure. I would like to draw attention to one point on which the Court of Auditors has made particular mention: of course, there is also a need for renovation in this infrastructure. The President-in-Office has just carried it out: We have an instrument with the Water Economic Fund, which can be used even more for such purposes. We must therefore also see this need for renovation in the future in order to maintain high quality. The overall findings on this subject are, however, very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31897	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31918	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the introduction of intelligent measuring instruments, the smartmeter. Austria has committed the network operators to convert 95 percent of the measuring equipment by 2019. This is a very high objective, because the EU's requirements are below. In 2010, responsibility fell within the Ministry of Economic Affairs and E-Control. The exchange of counters in itself has worked better than the preparation of the Court of Auditors report. I quote from the report: "The procurement of the necessary documents and information was partly difficult. At the time of the birth review, decisive persons were no longer at the Ministry of Economic Affairs or at the time of the birth review. E-Control was active in the regulatory authority and therefore not available to the RH for information. The e-control did not answer some questions from the RH or not conclusively. ==References====External links==* Official website has failed to comply with the provisions of the Agreement.’ In addition, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors is the control body of the National Council and that the authorities, including the Ministries of course, have the best possible means of supporting the Court of Auditors and bringing the documents. This is particularly true for this technical changeover, which has cost about EUR 1 billion. Although the costs on the electricity bills of people probably do not appear, we can be sure that they will ultimately arrive in the Austrian households until the last cent. This is why it is all the more important to know, because the Austrians are burdened with enormously increased costs – gas and electricity costs. The AK estimates that this year 420 euros will be spent on households in the eastern region. That the additional costs, such as read-out fees, are as low as possible, is the SPÖ's position, and that is why we voted against the heating bill last year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is time for this House to rise to the cost brake when it comes to the calculation of electricity, gas, water and other products in the sense of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31957	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e31979	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Dear colleagues! In Austria, we are lucky that, unlike other countries, we can get our drinking water almost entirely from the protected groundwater deposits. The water plants prepare our drinking water and ensure that no dangerous substances or foreign substances occur in our drinking water. In this context, the local water community also plays an important role. It organizes the use of drinking water, wastewater and precipitation water in the context of settlements. From April to September 2019, the Court of Auditors reviewed the grants and grants in the field of urban water management. The review period was the years 2014 to 2018. On the one hand, there were federal promotions and on the other hand, there were also state funding on the basis of the Environmental Promotion Act. The objectives set out in the Support Directives were to protect water against pollution, to provide the population with to ensure hygienically perfect drinking water and to ensure a sparing use of water. Our drinking water pipes were built largely before the 1980s, so it is clear to each of us that there is a need for renovation or exchange work. In the 1990s, funding under the Environmental Promotion Act was still around 283 million euros on average. In 2018, it was then only around 80 million euros. That is, dramatically said, around 200 million euros per year less. The strong reduction in funding also greatly reduced investment in urban water infrastructure. In particular, as the Court of Auditors noted, the years 2014 to 2018 were affected, while in the wastewater treatment only 0.1 percent and in drinking water supply only 0.3 percent of the total network were renovated. However, an average refurbishment of at least 2 per cent would be necessary to maintain values. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore apparent that the water industry has been depleted in the last decade. The Court of Auditors therefore recommends to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture that there should also be a level playing field in the granting of grants in order to ensure that the operators concerned actually implement the necessary reorganisation and conservation work in the installations in a timely manner. I can only agree with this, and I hope that the Turkish-green Federal Government will finally see how important water supply is for each individual Austrian and that it should not be neglected.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32021	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32042	Mr President. Thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) While, in order to achieve the climate goals, we have already decided today on the energy transition with the Renewable Development Act as a basis here, we also need equivalent intact ecosystems, intact nature and intact floodwaters as an important contribution to achieve our climate goals. A report from the Court of Auditors on the ecologicalisation of floodwaters is also on the agenda today. This is about the numbering of the need for renovation and progress in the area of rehabilitation. This is based on the European Union Water Framework Directive of 2000. It is about progress and how many of our floodwaters are needed at all. This figure is quite terrifying, because of the 32,000 kilometers of running water that falls into this category, only 40 percent were in good or very good condition at the beginning – in fact, 60 percent of our running water needs to be rehabilitated. The question, therefore, is how these reorganisation steps, to which we are committed as a Member State of the European Union, have actually been implemented, and this is quite sobering, because despite the legal obligation and significant efforts and millions of packages of funding for improvement, we are at present only 50 percent. So we are only working very, very little forward, although there is such an urgent need for action. It is not only about the chemical water quality, which is relatively good in Austria, but in fact it is the water morphological conditions, i.e. the low permeability, much too many transverse structures, reservoirs, too few moving shores, the dynamics of the flow water that is reflected in the river basins. I'm coming back to the Renewable Development Act. What does that mean? – Our flow water needs great renovation while at the same time we know that we will need our renewable energies, including hydropower. We are directed towards a very, very big target conflict, because we first have to improve the state of flow water so that we can even think about new hydropower. In order to solve this, I also refer to the EU's biodiversity strategy, which says that we need to generate additional 25 000 kilometres across Europe in order to meet all the biodiversity requirements. Why do we need intact ecosystems in the area of river water? – Climate protection only goes with intact nature, with healthy and resistant ecosystems, for which we need them on the one hand. [[Abg. Hörl: You need energy, too, Mrs. Rössler!]] We need them for climate protection, for the achievement of climate objectives, for health and recreation areas, which we urgently need to improve especially in the agglomerations, and we need them not least in terms of flood protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Smoking: (in the direction of Abg. (Hörl) Franz, tell her how it is!]] Flood protection will be a central challenge in times of changing weather events and climate change. [[Abg. Hörl: Best...!]] Therefore, we need momentum and better steps towards ecologizing the flow water and Rethink our energy consumption. [[Abg. Deimek: Finally a climate lockdown! That would be something new!]] The total energy consumption must be halved in the sense of the climate objectives. We will not reach the climate targets either with these growth scenarios on energy consumption.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32130	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32151	Mr President. Madam President. High house! I'm still allowed to talk about AMA marketing today. On the AMA marketing, you all know, there was a Court of Auditors report, which, however, has been a few years since, thankfully, many shortcomings have been detected by the Court of Auditors. There was then a follow-up report, which is not entirely new now, but has just been dealt with. All in all, we have to say that 14 of the 19 recommendations that have come from the Court of Auditors have been implemented, five have been partially implemented. This sounds very good at first glance, but it remains open to many questions, especially in connection with the AMA marketing. The first question that nobody can still answer me is: Why is AMA marketing a capital company? 80 to 85 percent of the income comes from member contributions, compulsory contributions from farmers. In addition, the AMA marketing as a 100 percent subsidiary of the AMA is subject to the AMA law. And on my question in the committee, why this is so, one has referred to the fact that this has always been the case. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply not an adequate answer. The concrete benefits of the AMA are, honestly, still a mystery to me. I still don't know how the money spent on the AMA really works. If you look at the campaigns, you can doubt whether the real markets are opening up or promoting sales, as it is. It is said again and again. Here is also my question: There is exactly, if you have perhaps pursued this, an AMA campaign for milk with white pillars, milk is white; you can or can't, I don't want to judge that here either. I would only like to know: What comes out for the contributors, so for the farmers who really need to spend every cent they don't get for their milk money? The answer was: Well, the agency has good feedback! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Now I'm wondering, No, if I'm the agency and I'm doing an advertising for my customers, I'm not going to sit down and say there wasn't that great feedback. So I honestly find this a little absurd. Coming out of this area and having judged quite a lot of campaigns in my life, gives me the security to say what is being done is a pretty big nonsense. Because we're just being stupid: Thanks to the Kulinary Heritage Board of Austria, the Court of Auditors has also very intensively addressed itself. In the years 2010 to 2014, this total received 1.5 million euros, without the correct conclusion of funding contracts. Then this club was closed, right from my point of view, but if you go to the homepage of this club, you can still become a member. Dr. Blass, who is also the managing director of AMA marketing, is apparently still on the board. So it seems that it was not worth the effort to take this homepage off the web. There really is a clear need for improvement. Finally, I would like to thank the President and her team for the excellent work that the Court of Auditors always does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32203	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? – That doesn't seem like it. [[22:17:34]] Vote on agenda items 15 to 37
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32227	We come to the moved votes. Can we vote? Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Central Matura, III-149 of the Supplements. Who's for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 16: Court of Auditors report on day-care for pupils; Follow-up review, III-361 of the supplements. Whoever takes note of it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 17: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on education for children and young people with experience in fleeing, III-28 of the supplements. – That is also unanimous. Agenda item 18: The Court of Auditors report on funding in schools and adult education, III-47 of the Supplements. – Also unanimously. Agenda item 19: Report on HTL Sprengergasse, III-184. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 20: Report on Erasmus+ Education and Higher Education, III-185 of Supplements. Who will take note of this? – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 21: Commission report on research and scientific communication, III-56 of the Supplements. – It is also unanimously taken note of. Agenda item 22: Report on Teaching and Care Relations – University of Graz and Economic University of Vienna, III-437 of the Supplements. Who will take note of this? – took note unanimously. Agenda item 23: Report on Selected Foundations at the Austrian Academy of Sciences; Follow-up review, III-33 of the supplements. Who will take note of this? - Same voice behaviour. Agenda item 24: Report on Smart Minerals GmbH, III-53 of the Supplements. Who will take note of this? - Same voice behaviour. Agenda item 25: Court of Auditors report on Geological Bundesanstalt, III-106 of the Supplements. – This is also accepted. Agenda item 26: Accreditation and public financing of private universities, III-163 of the Supplements. – Also acceptable. Agenda item 27: Intake procedures Human and dentistry, III-212 of the supplements. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 28: Research infrastructure management, III-290 of supplements. – That too is unanimous. Agenda item 29: Report on the participation of universities in companies – Medical University of Vienna and University of Linz; Follow-up review, III-431 of the supplements. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 30: Public risk management for agriculture, III-200 of supplements. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 31: Federal Research and Training Centre for Forest, Natural Risks and Landscape, III-130 of Supplements. – Also noted. Agenda item 32: Court of Auditors Report on the College of Agricultural and Environmental Pedagogy, Follow-up Review, III-49 of Supplements. – This is also noted. Agenda item 33: Eler: Setup and operation of clusters and networks, follow-up review, III-429 of the supplements. – This has been noted. Agenda item 34: Funding in the urban water sector, III-211 of the supplements. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 35: Committee report on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH; Follow-up review, III-93 of the supplements. – took note unanimously. Agenda item 36: Ecologisation Flowwaters, second period of renovation, III-34 of the supplements. – Also noted unanimously. Agenda item 37: Introduction of intelligent measuring devices (smart meter), III-18 of the supplements. – Also noted unanimously. [[22:22:12]] 38. Point Report of the Immunity Committee on the request of the Council of Magistrates of the City of Vienna, GZ. MBA/210000087452/2021 to support the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Klubobmann Herbert Kickl (1326 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32494	We'll get to 38. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We can vote, there is no word. We shall vote only on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1326 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the magistrate of the city of Vienna [...] for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Herbert Kicklwegen of a violation according to § 8 para. 5a Z 2 of the COVID-19 measure is hereby adopted in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the Member of the National Council [...].’ [[Call the FPÖ: That's all a fool! A fool!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Demonstration is not a political activity!]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz: But at Stögmüller it was a political activity!]] I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who follow the request for approval. – This is the majority, and the request is therefore adopted accordingly. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:23:22]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32559	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights. Reporting on the application 1523/A concerning a federal law amending the criminal code, a period of time until 31 December. ==References== Who is for that, I ask him to consent. – This is the minority, rejected. [[22:23:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2022-01-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00139_d8e32592	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2189/A(E) to 2237/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 22.24 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
