ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4759	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the 178. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I would like to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, very warmly. I am delighted with the numerous visitors to the gallery and the presence of the ladies and gentlemen of the media. I would like to greet the ladies and gentlemen who are watching the sitting today in front of the screen. My special greeting is to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, whom I should also like to congratulate warmly on his re-election. [[General condolences.]] I should also like to warmly welcome the President of the Court of Auditors in our midst. My greeting, of course, also applies to the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and all the ministers present. Mr Leichtfried has been mentioned for business treatment. [[Call the ÖVP: It's starting well!]] I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4802	Mr President. Mr President! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! It is a great pleasure to have you honor our house once in such a large number. That is also the reason for my speech, because otherwise this is not usually the case. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor was not present in his own government statement. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Despite the full offer of the Federal Government for these two session days, there are seven excuses from members of the Federal Government, and that is not the first time. We have discussed this more often in the presidential conference, and the President stated in the last presidential conference that he will send a letter to the members of the Federal Government. That seems not to have happened yet, for otherwise there would not be so many excuses. The Minister for Climate Change and Energy is apologised for two days, in the biggest energy crisis we have ever experienced. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer.]] The Minister of Justice is apologised for two days. [[Interference of Federal Minister Zadić.]] The Foreign Minister is apologised for a day. The Minister of Health is apologised. The Minister of the Interior is apologised. [[Abg. Haubner: Painful!]] [[Abg. Head: ridiculous!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] They are always apologised when it comes to the debates. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, I should now like to make an appeal to you: Take this -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4890	What is the request for the Rules of Procedure? You know that you have to make a request in the business debate. What is it for an application? Then I can vote on it. But now, at the beginning of the session, I think that I am really inappropriate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4905	My appeal is take [[Abg. Steinacker: An appeal is not a request! That's a joke!]] If you are serious about this House in the future, ladies and gentlemen, then cooperation will also be a better one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4943	Mr Belakovich is speaking on business. Mr Maurer and Mr Wöginger will then be speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e4972	I would like to join the appeal of my predecessor. [[Call the ÖVP:... new coalition!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Where's the kickl?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] In the last presidential term, we have talked about the fact that the ministers are in fact permanently apologised. This, in particular, greatly restricts opposition rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Necessary questions, urgent requests are simply not possible because it is not the competent minister of expertise who would then come. I would really ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, to take Parliament seriously. Our work plan has been known for months, and that is why it is necessary - – could you let me speak out? [[Abg. Steinacker: Where is the Lord Kickl?! Don't you take yourself seriously?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Where is Klubobmann?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] I don't know why you're so nervous. Obviously we went to a weanpenst with this. Klubobmann Kickl is apologised for disease reasons, for your information, if you want to know exactly. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Is he always when he loses a choice!]] The fact is that ministers prefer to travel around world history, and it is also a question of worth and a question of how important this house is taken here. I believe that in the interests of citizens, it would be necessary for ministers to actually look at the work plan in time before planning their travels.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5081	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5111	Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Mr Leichtfried, you mentioned that there is an international energy crisis due to a Putin attack war, and the reason why the Minister of Energy is not present is an EU Energy Council. Mrs Belakovich, it is clear to me that you believe that the problems of the world in small Austria can be solved and that you do not give the European Union due respect. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You can't solve any problem at all! You're the problem!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] However, as government groups, we believe that it is the most important task – and I address the Social Democracy once again – of the Minister for Climate Change and Energy, of course, that she is present at this Council in order to solve exactly the problems that you rightly criticise here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We both strive, Klubobmann August Wöinger and I always strive to see as many ministers as possible present. We also have intensive discussions on the conversion of timetables. This too is always a challenge, you know, you were a minister yourself. We are really trying very hard, but this is what I really think is totally inappropriate. [[Abg. Easy: Where is the proposal now, Mr President?- Oh, my God!]] We have an international crisis; of course, the Minister also has to deal with it at European level, just as you are constantly calling for it. [[Abg. Matznetter: But not two days!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5196	Would you like to make another request? Mr Klubobmann, if you had not started the debate, we would not have to deal with this instrument. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5231	Mr President. High house! That's where I can connect seamlessly. The SPÖ tries to counter a successful future budget for the Austrians with a completely unnecessary word message. This Federal Government is required to implement the international and European dates. This is the duty and task of our federal government members. The annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will be held tomorrow, and an EU Council of Ministers will be held tomorrow. These are dates to be discerned. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, such appointments have been made by your ministers, even on plenary days, so don't throw stones when you sit in the glass house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This federal government will ensure that Austrians will continue to be able to live in a country of prosperity and social security in the future. The budget, which the Minister of Finance will present equally, provides the basis for this. So take part in it and agree! This would be a sign of solidarity and cohesion which we urgently need in times like these.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5269	I can say that no one from the club has made a request for business treatment. That is why we continue to do so. [[Abg. Lightenness: I am the only one who has been interrupted!]] The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 174. The sitting and the minutes of the 175th plenary session. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting ==References====External links== Meeting of 4. October 2022 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented are reported today the Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, MBA, Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann, Petra Bayr, MA MLS, Julia Elisabeth Herr, Mario Lindner, Josef Muchitsch, Alois Stöger, diplômé, Diplômé-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Kickl, Christian Ries, Peter Schmiedlechner, Michael Schnedlitz, Petra Steger, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Süleyman Zorba, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Dr. Stephanie Krisper and Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5367	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Ms. Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology Leonore Geessler, BAwird through Vice-Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5400	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOG-NR
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5507	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act 2023 and investments in 1669 d.b. to take first reading. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign accordingly. – This is unanimously accepted. I can announce that ORF 2 is transferring this meeting by 1 p.m., ORF III to 7.15 p.m. Afterwards, the session will be broadcast in the live stream in the TV library until the end. Private broadcasting stations also transfer individual parts of our session. I should like to point out that two camera teams are on the road during today's session on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5542	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 and 3, 4 to 9, 10 to 13, 15 to 19, 23 and 24, 25 to 27, 31 to 33, 34 and 35, 36 and 37, as well as 39 and 40 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5563	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates. According to the day block time, we have agreed 9.5 “Vienna hours”. The speaking times are divided as follows: The ÖVP covers 185, the SPÖ 128, the FPÖ 105, the Green 95 and the NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 38 minutes each. The speaking time per debate is limited by 5 minutes. I would ask you to give your consent and, if that is the case, to rise up from the seats accordingly. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:15:40]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2023 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5604	We're going to Agenda item 1. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5633	Mr President, I should like to congratulate you very warmly on re-election at this point. Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Dear taxpayers! Dear Austrians! A budget is always the Federal Government's answer to current and future challenges. With this budget we are giving exactly the answers that we now need in – admittedly – very difficult times too, because with this budget we are also taking responsibility for tomorrow. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot choose at what times we live. Nor do we choose the challenges we face as politicians. What we can very well influence, however, is how we, as a society, are dealing as a location in Austria and how we, as a state as a whole, deal with crises and how we emerge from these crises and from these extreme situations in which we are located. [[The SPÖ representatives shall keep plates with the red-plated label ‘prices down’ and with the black label ‘cover on it’ in height.]] Our claim is that Austria is not only getting well through these difficult times, but that Austria is growing from it. I know many of you here in the hall, but the word crisis cannot be heard at home. Of course, I can imagine this personally very well and understand it very well. The crisis seems to have become a constant companion of our daily lives: when you turn on the news when you read newspapers, in conversation with family, with friends, with neighbors. I will not tell you today that the crisis is over, and I will not promise you that - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5668	May I ask you to re-run the Taferls as agreed? [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: Best advertising for the budget!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e5698	The crisis is not over. I can neither promise nor promise that we will no longer have a crisis situation in 2023. But what we can say today is that with this budget we are responding to the current challenges and as far as possible taking care of them if the state has to help to save lives to a large extent again. At the same time – this is also very important – we also invest in the topics of the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably the most difficult times we have experienced since the Second World War that people in this country and also this generation of politicians are facing. This is due to the multiple crises that we all have to deal with together. Until 2.5 years ago, the people in Austria probably only knew the word pandemic in connection with distant countries and the word economic crisis was a term from the history books for many. Meanwhile, both terms shape our daily life. People also feel that times are more difficult. Since the outbreak of the Covid Pandemic in Austria in February 2020, politics has been required at all levels – at federal, national and municipal level. With unprecedented restrictions, necessary restrictions, and also billions of aid measures, all local authorities have contributed to bringing people through this crisis to the best possible use of jobs and businesses. I would like to say thank you all for taking on responsibility for the country, for society, for the state as a whole and for putting it in the service of the general public at this very difficult time. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, it is also clear that we all feel the consequences of pandemic and economic crisis, that those responsible and all local authorities feel it especially in their budgets. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have spent EUR 46.5 billion as a federal government to protect health in order to save jobs in order to bring businesses and communities through this crisis. Even though the need for covid support has been reduced, in 2022 we spent EUR 6.8 billion on health, economics and financial stability as well as on municipalities and on our voluntary associations. At EUR 2.6 billion, human health and medical care were ensured. EUR 2.2 billion has already been paid to help companies. Also behind these figures are saved jobs on the one hand and avoided insolvency on the other. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] 597 million euros were spent on short-time work, i.e. direct, direct job security. In 2023, we have estimated 2.7 billion euros in the budget for further support with regard to the consequences of the Covid-19 Pandemic, most of them naturally for health and for preventive measures in schools. Because I have addressed the economic aid: They are also the reason – in all the partially justified criticism – why we came out of the pandemic at the beginning of 2022 much more economically than other countries. In December 2021, the Wifo confirmed and forecast a GDP growth of 5.2 percent for Austria this year, and at present it is still 4.8 percent. In the second quarter of 2022, Austrian economic performance was 3.3 percent higher than the fourth quarter of 2019, while in Germany the pre-crisis level was only reached and also the growth in the euro area as a whole was significantly lower than that of Austria. These figures show that in the pandemic we may not have done everything, yes, but still a lot of things right. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Then came a scenario with the Russian war of attack on Ukraine, which no one in Europe has included in the forecasts and which seemed completely impossible for most people in Europe: War on the European mainland, rockets on cities that are closer to Vienna than Bregenz. This war, in addition to all human tragedies, creates uncertainty among companies and insecurity among people throughout Austria. Above all, the war strengthens high inflation and the resulting inflation, which partly originated in catch-up effects from the pandemic, but also in global supply chain problems. Think of a cross-stand ship in the Sues Canal or think of a closed port of Shanghai, which also had massive effects on global supply! All these effects are reinforced by the war in Ukraine. Yes, Europe also feels the sanctions that we had to impose on Russia, and I say consciously: had to hang. Europe cannot and must not allow states to go beyond international law and a single politician decides whether a state has a right to exist or not. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] And yes, the sanctions also affect us in Europe, but above all they hit Russia hard, and the effect becomes even stronger each month. The Russian economy is largely isolated. Russia is largely cut off from international financial markets. Throughout Europe, efforts are being made to further reduce the dependence on Russia from day to day in the energy sector. The sanctions have also led to an unprecedented conclusion within Europe, which was also underestimated by Russia accordingly. Yes, all of us, especially households and businesses in Austria, feel the effects of Russian aggression, especially in the energy sector. You have to say that honestly, too. On the other hand, we must also say what this is all about, namely that Putin uses energy and thus also the provision of citizens as a weapon in the war to achieve its objectives and to divide the Union. It was not the sanctions of Europe that turned to the gas tap. Russia did so already in 2021, and that is why you should not tell or believe any other story here. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] Therefore, while the call for the end of the sanctions is clearly understood emotionally, no one has a guarantee that Russia will comply with its obligations. We have all seen how little we can believe the Russian announcements as a whole. We must not allow the arbitrariness of a man to decide whether our heating in Austria is cold or warm. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] Therefore – and this is an important point – we all in Austria, but also across Europe, are reducing our dependence on Russia in the energy sector. But this path is still long, so we are currently in a difficult situation in which we are taking a lot of money in order to reduce our historical dependence on Russian gas while at the same time reducing the impact of high inflation on people as best as possible. I'm just saying, We will never compensate for inflation for everyone, nor can we compensate every crisis and its impact to 100 percent. Whoever promises this, ladies and gentlemen, plays with the fire and also creates an illusion for people. From my point of view, this is unscrupulous and not my access to politics. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is simply not possible at inflation rates of 9 to 10 percent, and even at inflation rates such as in Estonia with more than 25 percent. Of course, policy must take measures to relieve people in this situation, but that also means acting considerately, and that is, above all, not to give in to seductive calls, because not all that is popular is also reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] From my point of view, there is a need for fingertips: on the one hand, the necessary support, but at the same time, we must no longer fuel the imported inflation. Of course, it sounds tempting to simply draw a lid on the electricity price in Austria. However, this would not be useful, because it would be beneficial for us to benefit from electricity in Bavaria, Italy, the Czech Republic and Hungary through the liberalised European electricity market. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It could even be cheaper to heat with promoted electricity instead of with other sources of energy. A blackout would also be much more likely than at the moment, and that certainly does not want any of us here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Do we not decide now?]] We therefore take the serious path with our discharge measures. We do this, for example – and this is the difference – with a power price brake, ladies and gentlemen, which continues to allow market signals, but also directly inflational effects. This will benefit households in Austria and not in neighbouring countries. [[Abg. Krainer: This is especially the benefit...!]] – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned the high level of inflation: From January to September, inflation in Austria has more than doubled from 5 to 10.5%. Thus, the current inflation rate exceeds the values during the oil crises of the 1970s and has risen to the highest level since 1952. This is the starting point before this winter and also for this budget. Against this background, our prosperity, our growth course of past years is suddenly under massive threat. Our task, namely that of all political designers at all levels, is to counteract this development. People expect from us, expect answers and solutions from politics that we have to deliver. And as I have already said, this is, of course, a challenge to our prosperity. In Germany, politicians have been talking about a loss of prosperity for months on account of the current situation. [[Abg. Kassinger: With us too!]] I find this, with all due respect, a little too little for political leadership. [[Call the NEOS: That would be honest!]] We want to bring Austria out of this crisis with new strength, and we must set the right course now, in the crisis. That is exactly what we are doing with this budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We in Austria have repeatedly faced fundamental crises in our history. After that, however, we continued to be stronger and more coherent. The tasks we have to deal with are historical. I think that's where we all agree. The tides do not only concern a small part of the population, but they have arrived in the middle of society. Economic growth in Austria will be still very high this year, with around 4.8 percent, but the impact of high inflation is already increasing throughout the economy, and economic growth of 0.2 percent is forecast for 2023. During the pandemic, individual industries were particularly hard hit, particularly in the energy sector and in the costing of each sector and also in all farms in Austria. If external conditions become more difficult, we need to make it easier for citizens and businesses too. The answers to global crises can no longer be bureaucracy and no more taxes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Anger: That's why the CO2 tax?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: The CO2 charge?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] - That's what I'm coming up with. The federal government has already suspended the increase of federal fees for the eleventh time. But we didn't just turn on the little screws against the inflation: This year alone, we have implemented EUR 6.3 billion for human discharge measures and we will invest more than EUR 30 billion in the coming years by 2026. At the beginning of the year, we tied two packages with a total volume of 4.4 billion euros, including emergency payments for particularly affected groups, for greater security in local agriculture, a reduction in energy taxes, a relief for commuters and much more. Much of it has been working for months, other measures are only gradually developing and will continue to be intensively budget-effective in the coming year. The third anti-estimation package from the early summer brings a total of EUR 28.7 billion in financial discharge. In the summer, we reduced those people who are the most affected to 300 euros again. There was a single payment of 180 euros as a family allowance for each child. The families also benefit from the higher family bonus plus and the extra child. A total of 500 euros for each adult and 250 euros for each child are provided by the climate and the anti-esteem bonus. With the beginning of next year, the structural reliefs that will then come, and thus we will strengthen the purchasing power of the people permanently. The State will help in the context of its opportunities when companies or jobs are at risk due to the current challenges. And yes, sometimes a federal or a population may benefit from a measure more than others. However, we have not raised expenditure on the various actors in the Covid aid sector against each other and we will not do so in the fight against inflation. It is good tradition in Austria that the state helps in the face of disasters and exceptional crises. This is true in the case of floods in Salzburg, in the case of crop failures in the Burgenland and in the case of avalanches in the west, and it is true that life is no longer palatable for people. The current inflation is not at federal borders, it is all meeting from west to east. That's why my appeal is also at this point: Let us not split in the crisis! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Anger: What about Carinthia?]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... Flood in Carinthia, Mr. Minister?]] It is important that the citizens, the citizens, the businesses, the municipalities in all the federal states can rely on the state, because it is all our tax money with which we help. We will do this in the coming year: We have budgeted EUR 2023 8.4 billion directly for the fight against inflation. [[Abg. Belakovich: Great! And the CO2 charge?]] We will help companies this year and next year with an energy cost subsidy of 1.3 billion euros and a electricity price compensation of 233.3 million euros. We still support the drivers until June 2023 with a higher penalty and a higher pendlereuro, which is about 220 million euros only in 2023. In total, we relieve commuters of a total of 420 million euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, is in addition to the discharge measures under the eco-social tax reform. We have continued to stick to this very central project of the Federal Government – not despite the crisis, but precisely because of the crisis. Especially now it is necessary to relieve people, especially now it is necessary to provide incentives for the economy, and especially now it is also important to speed up ecological change. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the middle of the largest economic crisis since the Second World War, we have reduced the rates of wage and income tax. We have increased the family bonus plus and the additional amount of children and we have also reduced taxes for companies. As the Federal Government, we set clear priorities that not only meet the priorities of the two government parties, but also the needs of our time. We have thus implemented the greatest transformation of the tax system that ever existed. To sum up, the discharge of Austrians and the local economy alone by the eco-social tax reform by 2025 amounts to about 18 billion euros. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We thus boost the economy, but we are also withdrawing from competitors in European competition. In my view, the eco-social tax reform also enables the bridge between the economy on the one hand and climate protection on the other. The eco-social tax reform provides incentives for environmentally friendly behaviour and sustainable investment, as every saved tonne of CO2 is also a contribution to climate change and to a peaceful Europe. We thus achieve a double dividend. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have seen in recent months how dangerous a dependence on fossil energy is. That is why we need to rethink in the long term, and therefore we also provide incentives for this ecological transformation. I think it's clear to all of us: Climate protection is one of the central tasks of our generation, and for this path it takes full use on the one hand, but it also needs home sense on the other, because we do not only want to dream about the energy change, but we want to implement it consistently. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I'm convinced: In order to achieve these climate objectives in Austria, we need investment, but we also need a lot of innovation and, above all, cooperation, because all these efforts have one thing in common: They will require capital, yes, and the state will not be able to solve the problems alone either. Of course, private capital will also be necessary, and we need the population. We will promote awareness and acceptance for this transformation, because we must not lose anyone in this way – not the people and, above all, the economy. Only then do we have a chance to reach our goals. Therefore, in the context of the eco-social tax reform, we rely on incentives on the one hand, on relief on the other. We lower the rates of wage and income tax from 35 to 30 and from 42 to 40 percent. In total, we relieve the Austrians of around 11 billion euros by this reduction by 2026. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This, of course, also has a positive economic impact. According to Eco Austria, this tax reform will make the gross domestic product 1 percent higher in the medium term than without our planned measures. This also makes it clear that: In the year 2025, these measures alone account for 0.7 percent and 30% higher than without the reform. In the medium term, real net incomes will also be 2.4 to long-term 2.4 percent higher. It is therefore important that we stick to this so important measure right now, at this difficult time. I also stress the tax reform because the monthly tax relief for many people has now become almost self-evident. But it was this federal government that also implemented this tax reform. Many countries in Europe have planned tax reforms, but have also cancelled them. We are definitely continuing this path of discharge. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In 2023, we complete the restructuring of the tax system on the employee side with the reduction of the third level of taxation. This means that the tax rate is reduced from 42 to 40 percent for income between 31,000 and 60 000 euros per year. This brings to an employee with an average income a relief of up to 580 euros per year, alone by this reduction. We will relieve companies of up to EUR 900 million a year with a reduction in corporate tax. In concrete terms, corporate taxes are reduced from 25 percent to 24 percent in 2023 and then to 23 percent in 2024. On the one hand, this creates scope for investment, but at the same time it is also an incentive for business settlements, i.e. a real competitive advantage that we will thus achieve in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Some 80 000 Austrian companies benefit from this Köst reduction. More than two thirds of these domestic companies have a profit of less than 100 000 euros and more than half of those companies have a profit of less than 40 000 euros. So we see how wide this goes into small and medium-sized enterprises. The reduction in the corporate tax rate thus has a positive signal effect on our location. It also promotes equity education, promotes economic growth and promotes investment and employment. Also this, ladies and gentlemen, is a long articulated promise, and we are also fulfilling this promise as a federal government. While other countries are burdening them to renovate their budgets, we relieve them to remain attractive to the economy and to enable them to invest and create jobs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that people are worried about high inflation and inflation. With the government's actions, we help people get through the autumn and winter. Whether it be cost compensation for particularly affected groups, whether or not the taxpayer's fee, whether tax reform, agricultural parcels, reduction of electricity tax or climate change and anti-insurance bonus: We have decided on measures for all Austrians and for every farm. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This can of course be criticised and one can also discuss any individual measure, no question at all, and yes, perhaps we go too far in some measure. We must not forget, however, that the pressures have also arrived in the middle of society, in the middle of the middle. This is about the installer that repairs the heating, it's about the baker who supplies the semitrailers, and it's about the pendler who has to go to work every day on the land. It was always clear to us as a federal government: We do not abandon people in this difficult situation. If the question is, ladies and gentlemen: Help or don't help?, of course we always decide to help, and we prefer to distribute a few fire extinguishers too much than risk a devastating surface fire. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is also our responsibility, which we have assumed as the Federal Government, and we will continue to do so. We will do what is necessary in this crisis situation. Individual measures, ladies and gentlemen, of course, are not enough. Unlike a few months ago, the high level of inflation is forecast by many experts, of course, to accompany us even longer. We will not wake up tomorrow and inflation has suddenly fallen to a value that we have experienced before the crisis. Also the war in Ukraine and the political instrumentalization of energy by Putin will not be over immediately tomorrow. Against this background, however, the political mechanisms of the past decades are no longer working. For the first time, it is no longer enough to ensure discharge every few years with a tax reform. Therefore, we have also opted for structural measures – and these measures also started – that Austria has been discussing for many decades, but which have never been implemented in Austria: With the 1.1.2023, we'll get rid of the cold progression. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This has been a political standing requirement for some 40 years, existing in all government programmes, a often formulated confession of all parties and supposedly a thing of impossibility until this government has proved the opposite. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Serious: Many governments have tried it, many have promised, a few have perhaps tried it less strongly, we have done it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, we have also taken a serious look at which model is the right one to achieve social security, balance, but also a positive macroeconomic impact. Although some people deliberately say it incorrectly or do not want to understand it: We eliminate the cold progression to 100 percent, the state doesn't like it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The dimension of this abolition becomes clear only when you look at the discharges in detail: By 2026, the total savings for people in Austria amount to 18.7 billion euros. I know it's hard to explain, so a few examples to explain it as well: An average income of 2 160 euros gross per month would be worth only more than 2 000 euros next year with the cold progression, and with the abolition of the cold progression, we are opposed to this. With this income, 370 euros will remain alone next year, and over the next five years this means more net on the account. Another example to make the cold progression a little more tangible: To date, Austrians have been taxed from an income limit of 11 000 euros. Due to the abolition of the cold progression, the limit next year is 11 693 euros. Nevertheless, all those parties who have always been for the abolition of the cold progression have for months been looking for reasons why they should now suddenly vote against: too late, too false, or from the wrong party. Ladies and gentlemen! You still have the opportunity to vote in a historic decision, and I hope you will not vote against it. We as the Federal Government are at least taking this step. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This also applies – and this is the second structural part – to the valorization of social benefits: for many, many years always required, regularly here in Parliament. We are also implementing this step 2023. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] By valorizing additional social benefits, we expect 363 million euros for the state in 2023 or, if you see it positive, relief for citizens. Many benefit from this, but especially the families. ==References== In January, 2023, family allowances, child allowances, child care allowances and family allowances will be valorised. These measures alone bring about EUR 253 million higher benefits. We also index for all families the amount of child drop-off, which is paid monthly together with the family allowance. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] With the special family allowance of 180 euros per child, we paid some 3.1 billion euros to family aid this year, and in addition, the Family Bonus Plus was increased from 1 500 to 2 000 euros and the measure also retroactively from 1. In January 2022. The higher family bonus Plus and the higher child surplus since the beginning of the year still bring this year, a noticeable additional relief of 175 million euros for the families in Austria. In 2023, the relief effect by Family Bonus Plus and the additional amount of children will increase to 600 million euros. This is particularly important in difficult times: that we strengthen the families accordingly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This structural measure shall also cover: We are doing something with it, which has been demanded by many, almost everyone for decades. Apparently it is the paradox of this federal government: We are implementing numerous sensible measures that have been called for for decades by all the political forces in this country, and yet today's opposition is criticizing the government for implementing precisely these measures. That's a little scurry. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We had a political etiquette during the pandemic with many parts of Parliament. Throughout party borders, across ideology borders, we have always had the common goal of protecting health, saving jobs and businesses. This, I think, has been very, very successful. Yes, some things could have been done better or different in the reflection of history, but the basic principle that we together give the best for the country and vote together against the crisis, we have preserved this basic attitude very, very long. Now we are again – or still, better said – in an economic crisis, unfortunately even stronger by an energy crisis, by a security crisis and by an inflation crisis. The difference is just: This time, unfortunately, there is no shoulder closure. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this to be a totally false signal to the population in the face of the historic outrages that we are currently experiencing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is not a question of political ideology. It threatens the prosperity and daily life of the Austrians, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my request: Jump They are more often about your party political shadows and together we show the people in our country that politics takes the fears seriously, takes the concerns of the population seriously, and let us act together! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] It is also not a question of small political money, but of how we can use tax money to the best possible extent for Austrians and help with this tax money as much as possible. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, you've seen that!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot defuse all global developments. [[Abg. Lightenness: That there are two of them!]] We cannot give any guarantees that no Austrian, no Austrian, will feel the effects of the price. But we can make the promise that the state will be there if it is needed. We have proved this in recent years, and we will continue to do so if necessary. We have helped during a historic pandemic, we have all jointly guaranteed the protection of our health system and thus also saved human lives. We have protected workers and businesses, as well as they, from the consequences of the pandemic. We have done our best, and that is why Austria has been so well hit by this crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] The central task of the state is to help its citizens, as well as the countries and communities as a whole, and also to provide the necessary security. We have done so, and we will do so in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now about bringing our country through the crisis well and allowing stability for the future. This applies to Austria, yes, but it also applies to Europe as a whole. Even if some are constantly reproducing this: We cannot ignore what is happening in the world, neither security policy nor economic policy, because of course both have an immediate impact on stability, on growth and also on social peace in Austria. We also see this in the budget, for example, if we invest 1 billion euros for asylum and xenophobia by 2026 and 1.7 billion euros for the police. I would also like to say a word in the direction of those critics who, in the coming months, may simply take out the high expenditure of the state as a critical point. I would ask you, with all my understanding of the criticism and political day-to-day business, to consider: Behind all the figures, budget support, budget subsidies, budgets, pensioners, particularly affected people and families, small and medium-sized enterprises and jobs that we will once again bring through this crisis. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That's what we did during the Covid Pandemic, and that's how we'll do it in the future. Over the past three years, people, businesses – small, medium and large – have been a hard test of administration and politics at all levels. Of course, they were also an unforeseen challenge for our budget, for our budget and for all the budgets in Europe, because, of course, higher expenditure also means higher debt. In 2026, therefore, the absolute debt in Austria is expected to amount to almost 400 billion euros. In the last year of the crisis, this figure was still around 280 billion euros. No matter how well you plan, no matter how much buffer you insert: No one had praised two and a half years of pandemic and a Russian war of attack in Europe. You have to be so honest. Nevertheless, we have been able to provide the necessary assistance at any time in Austria and have financed us for a very long time in the financial markets. Now, the top priority is to preserve purchasing power and to give people the security that they can continue to afford their lives. The long-term consequences for the site and the people would be much more fatal, we would not help in this crisis. Therefore: Yes, what kind of tasks! – In my definition, however, this does not mean that it costs what it wants!, but it means making the necessary one available. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, crises require extraordinary action. But they are not an excuse to bury easily meaningful ideas. That is why we must not lose sight of the long-term perspective in the face of all necessary crisis intervention, because today's debts are a heavy backpack, which our grandchildren still have to bear. That is why we must, of course, keep in mind the rise in public debt, and above all, we must pay off the debt mountain again in the medium to long term. In this budget, we can show that the Maastricht deficit will fall from 3.5 per cent to 1.6 per cent by 2026, and in the same period we expect a reduction in the debt ratio from 78.3 per cent in 2023 to 72.5 per cent in 2026. We will again be in Europe a warning and perhaps not for all the pleasant vote for a return to a sustainable budget policy. I am not saying this because it sounds good if the Minister of Finance is committed to sustainable budgets. It is quite simply a question of the house mind, a question of crisis prevention and also a question of the right handling of tax money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Each borrower knows: If interest increases, then less remains in the budget, less money in the household. That's how the state is doing: The very necessary interest rates of the European Central Bank in the fight against inflation have greatly increased the cost of our debt since the beginning of the year. In January, the return on ten-year bonds was still on average 0.18 percent, and we currently stand at 2.87%. In the period January to August 2021, the Federal Government made payments of 1.9 billion euros for its debts, while in the comparison period of the current year, the Federal Government's disbursements for this so-called interest rate service increased to 3.9 billion euros. This is almost EUR 2 billion more compared to the previous year, which we pay for our debts, instead of investing this money in care, education, security or digitization. By 2026, our interest expenditure will almost double from EUR 4.4 billion to EUR 8.4 billion this year. Of course, every million more debts are also delaying important projects in Austria. Therefore, a reduction in deficits is not a self-interest, not a political lovership, but it is simply a matter of commercial care. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In Europe, there have already been countries in front of the Covid Pandemic, which were on a somewhat dangerous budgetary path. We have also regularly warned of this development. It was a message that was not so much heard in many parts of Europe and, in part, here in Parliament, and there were calls that remained largely unheard of. Until the pandemic we were on a very good path in Austria. We have reduced the debt ratio to just under 71 percent, before it has increased to around 83 percent due to the necessary measures against the Covid-Pandemy 2020. Only for comparison: Italy had a public debt of 134 percent over the same period and is currently at 148 percent debt ratio. Without the Covid Pandemic and the necessary expenditure, this government would have generated a surplus already in 2020. Solid budgetary policy is therefore not a question of ideology, it is simply a question of the house mind. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Europe's debts are all baffling us, all in all, in the fight against inflation, and it is already the task of the Member States to set up their budgets in the medium to long term, not as their own purpose, but so that the European Central Bank also has the scope for action it needs in the fight against inflation. It's just absurd: The ECB raises interest rates and must, at the same time, decide on emergency programmes for massively indebted countries. This high level of inflation has not indebted Europe itself, but the failure of European debt and budget policies and also the failure of structural reforms have further limited the scope of the European Central Bank. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Corona and the current economic crisis have shifted the relations. Amounts that were perhaps negotiated for months and milestones for the resorts, for the countries, for the municipalities and, above all, for those concerned, are now partly defined as drops on the hot stone or as the right first steps and even small ones. These are sums corresponding to the annual budget of Austrian federal states, and they are partly demanded with one, I would say, lightness also under the guise of the crisis and the population as a whole communicates as a matter of course. Packages, which make up only a few million, are also publicly criticized as small things. No, ladies and gentlemen, a few millions and billions of euros of tax money are not a matter of course that you simply collect in passing by. A few million on or off don't care! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Because I'm being asked again and again: No, the money has not been abolished. It only has a different value in times of global crisis, and it also needs other dimensions at that time to help. But we must finally start learning to appreciate the tax money again. That is why I ask you all today – the responsibilities here in the house, the federal government, the country, the media, as well as all citizens – to: Together we made a contribution that tax money gets back the appreciation it deserves! Let us take the unimaginably high amounts of the present, which are necessary in the crisis, not as a matter of course against the state, but as something that must first be achieved! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the gap between short-term measures needed to combat the crisis on the one hand and long-term debt reduction on the other, careful budgeting is also needed. Of course, this budget is not the top priority in making the individual resorts happy by fulfilling wish lists. This budget has the highest priority to do what is necessary to make people's lives more manageable and also to ensure the survival of businesses and thus jobs. Making decisions, setting priorities and sometimes saying no is not popular, but it is simply necessary. It is also not the money of the state that we distribute in the Republic. It is always the money of taxpayers. You just entrusted it to the state. It is also the money of the next generation we decide on here, and it is also the future that we will shape with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is precisely the means that we provide to this next generation in the fight against climate change, against poverty in old age, for more education, for sustainable care and social funding, and for digital change. Together, as the Federal Government, we have put in place a budget that gives the department's scope for answers to questions of the future and at the same time, and this is extremely important at this time, frees resources for crisis management. Ladies and gentlemen! We experience in many ways a change that will change our lives permanently. In the face of an unprecedented attack war in Ukraine that forces us to decide on economic sanctions against Russia, which, of course, also have an impact on our own economy, we must reduce our dependence on Russian gas. If the security situation in Europe changes, we also need to invest more in security. If a war changes the map of our continent, we also need to develop and strengthen military core competences. This is what we are doing by placing a focus on increasing security in our country with this budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: 60 percent...!]] The topics and priorities of this budget, ladies and gentlemen, are more diverse. Digitalization changes our social life and also our working world. The challenges in the care force us to act and with our care package we also show the social manuscript of the government. In particular, climate change and the measures that are needed, however, mean a change in our consumer behaviour and in our economies as a whole. The sustainable transformation – this is a challenge that we need to tackle wisely. Only in this way do we take the opportunity for our economic location, create jobs and at the same time protect nature. It's clear: Austria needs high investments in the future to be able to vote on the energy transition. Only in this way, that is practical and in common, will we create the very ambitious goals that we have set ourselves, and the energy transition. At the same time, we also prove that we can intelligently combine climate protection on the one hand and a competitive location in Austria on the other. These changes cannot be seen from the outset either positively or negatively. It is up to all of us – politics, businesses, as well as citizens – to decide how we shape this change. It is not negative from the outset when you travel to work by public transport instead of by car. [[Abg. Mein-Risinger: What?]] But we also know the life realities of the people. Not everyone has a subway at the doorstep and we can't put a track in every valley. But, of course, as a policy, we need to create the conditions for people in remote rural areas to have a corresponding public transport network. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This also applies to the digital infrastructure that the state has to provide in order to prevent a city-country gap. We see all these challenges and we are going to meet them. We also take this budget into account intensively. Security and transformation are the main priorities for us. We are not only giving the necessary answers in the short term, but also investing specifically in areas that strengthen Austria for the future. We will also invest 1.4 billion euros in public transport and in the transformation of transport by 2026. We strengthen digitisation with 336.2 million euros. We spend 3.6 billion euros more on our educational landscape, we provide 1.7 billion euros for the implementation of the care reform, and we support the communities so that they can get well through these challenging times. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, the war in Ukraine has dramatically changed the security situation in Europe. He forces all governments on the continent to critically question previous positions and attitudes to military national defence. Austria's neutrality has provided us with good services and is not at all for discussion. That does not mean, however, that we do not have to think about how we can best protect this neutrality and the citizens in this country. Our federal army has an essential protection function for the country, for the people and for democracy as a whole. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, a few years ago, the federal army's orientation and financial resources were different, because the security situation in Europe was another one. However, with the Russian War of Attack, Europe has become a trace of uncertainty, and that is why we need to invest more in our security. That is exactly what we are doing with this budget. We will also invest 5.3 billion euros in the Austrian German army by 2026 – as much as never before. Compared to the current financial framework, the budget for 2023 is increasing by EUR 680 million. Yes, according to international standards, we already invest 2023 1 percent of our GDP in national defence. The aim is to spend 1.5 percent of our gross domestic product by 2027. In comparison to the past years, it has been the largest and above all the most constant increase in the budget for the Austrian army over the years. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But we do not only understand security in the sense of military security. If you look at the points of each department, then the military, yes, as well as economic and social security is moving through this budget. We invest in new helicopters and the crisis prevention care of the police, in the social field we finance poverty prevention projects, and we provide funds for the economic stability of our companies and also for the security of the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! We're at a turn of events. This concerns not only the security – yes, the security – but also the transformation of the economy and society. In addition to digitalisation, the major challenges of the coming years will be the ecological change and the even faster need to exit from fossil energy sources. We will therefore provide additional €4.9 billion for the transformation of the economy and its location in this federal financial framework by 2026 in order to respond effectively to climate change. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We provide about 220 million euros for projects in the field of green and digital future technologies for the sustainable and innovative transformation of key industries. In addition, EUR 330 million will be added for applied research in future technologies. A total of EUR 1.375 billion will be made available for the transformation of energy-intensive industries as well as for the sustainable security of the industrial site in Austria in subdivided 43, i.e. in the climate protection resort for the years 2023 to 2026. We thus accompany domestic industrial companies on their way to a CO2-free future and at the same time also secure value added and jobs in Austria in the long term. To reduce our dependence on Russian natural gas – an important point – a total of EUR 300 million for gas diversification is planned for the years 2023 to 2025. In 2023, 100 million euros will be budgeted for the promotion of the transport of non-Russian gas to Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the coming years will become apparent if you look at a few very specific key points from the ressort budgets. If I may start with the Federal Chancellery: The budget of the Federal Chancellery will be increased by 139 million euros by 2026 compared to the current federal financial framework. Of these, EUR 17.9 million is intended for women and equality and will be invested mainly in the protection of violence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, integration – not least due to the Ukraine war – remains a major challenge and we therefore continue the budget allocation of EUR 107.8 million for this very high level of the previous year. The budget for the family and youth sector is increased by 38.1 million euros compared to the previous year. The first adjustment of family benefits to inflation also leads to an additional disbursement of EUR 253.4 million in 2023. The reduction of service providers' contributions to the Family Compensation Fund brings about 350 million euros to companies. In the field of executives, the last two years have shown us clearly how important it is to be prepared for crises. Our police officers have contributed a great deal to the protection of internal security, and we will increase the budget for crisis prevention measures by EUR 90 million over the next four years. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition, we increase the financial resources to improve protective equipment, deployment technology and equipment for police officers of EUR 121,2 million. With 60 million euros more than in the federal financial framework 2022 to 2025, the acquisition of four transport helicopters is financed. With this, we invest more than 180 million euros in addition to improving, increasing and also modernising Austrian executives. We are not only in the Federal Chancellery, but also in the Ministry of the Interior we are increasing the means of protecting women from violence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The appropriations for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be increased by 25.1 million euros next year. Additional financial resources of more than EUR 241.8 million will be made available by 2026. In the field of development cooperation, more €12 million per year will be available from 2023 onwards, which can be used in particular for projects in the priority countries and regions. The increase in human resources of the judicial system also continues with this budget. In the future, an additional 15.1 million euros will be available for the stockpiling and expansion of planning sites each year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In total, we will invest EUR 214.9 million in important areas of justice next year. In addition, EUR 49.6 million per year and EUR 44.8 million per year for the implementation of measures and medical care alone will be available. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the field of public service and sport, we invest 81.8 million euros in additional resources by 2026 and have also agreed on a substantial increase in funding and sustainable financing of sports. In addition to supporting the wide-ranging and top-notch sports, we also provide funds for major events such as the Alpine Ski World Cup 2025 in Saalbach-Hinterglemm with 8 million euros. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] For the year 2023, payments of 620.2 million euros are planned for the field of art and culture. This corresponds to an increase of 63.1 million euros compared to the previous year. All areas of life – and, of course, art and culture – are heavily affected by high inflation and by inflation. Therefore, concrete relief measures must also be the focus of the use of resources in this area. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In order to achieve this, for example, the various art and cultural promotions of EUR 15 million were increased to ensure a stable financial framework for the local art and culture scene. In order to combat the shortage of skilled workers, additional EUR 120 million will be made available in the workplace next year. In addition, 300 million euros will be used under the Spring Board programme. In this way, 50 000 long-term unemployed people will be re-integrated into the labour market in 2022 and 2023. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This will also provide sufficient resources to make an effective labour market policy possible. As part of the care reform, the care profession for new professionals is made more attractive. An annual financial framework of 30 million euros is available for this purpose. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The current crisis and the forthcoming necessary transformations are a site-related challenge for our economy, for all of us. Therefore, the financial resources of the economic sector will be increased by 1.1 billion euros compared to the previous year's budget and thus by almost 45 percent. In addition to this year's funds, we also provide EUR 2023 850 million for the energy cost grant for the economy. We support the digital and ecological transformation of our bowl industry with an additional 220 million euros by 2026. We want the large international streaming services not only to get subscribers from Austria, but above all also to leave value added with us in the country. Therefore, we will make 142 million euros available for a new incentive system by 2026, in addition to the corresponding new donations for Austrian film productions in the cultural budget. The area of applied research is very important in order to ensure and further enhance the attractiveness of the economic and research location in Austria. In addition, applied research contributes significantly to the transition to new forms of energy in order to ensure a future trading and competitive location. The disbursements for the applied research of the economic resort in 2023 increase to EUR 281.7 million – compared to the previous year, this means a significant increase in the total financial resources of 65 percent. By 2026, i.e. over the entire period of the Federal Financial Framework, a total of EUR 405.7 million is available. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Payments for applied research by the Ministry of Climate Change – to stay in the field – will rise by 42,5 million euros in the coming year to 624,1 million euros. By 2026, a financial increase of EUR 106.2 million can be recorded in the federal financial framework. This will continue to support the transformation of the economy and the transition to new energies. In the field of health, we will provide 1.2 million euros for the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic next year. [[Abg. Belakovich: billions! There's billions standing!]] This should also be used, among other things, for the further financing of the procurement of vaccines and for payments from already implemented pandemic control measures under the Epidemic Act or also the COVID-19 interest rate grant law. The implementation of the discharge measures from the anti-fertilization packages also has an impact on this UG 24, i.e. on health: Extraordinary credits for health insurance contributions from farmers and traders will be provided with a total of 80 million euros. In the area of social and consumer protection, about 775 million euros are available in financial terms compared to the 2022 Federal estimates. The main focus is on the care sector and also on financing the measures in the care reform already mentioned. For example, the EUR 570 million target grants are intended to ensure better payment in care and care professions. In addition, funds will be made available to increase the promotion of 24-hour care with a volume of 16 million euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The education budget has already exceeded the 10 billion euro mark in 2022 and will increase by another billion to 11.25 billion euros next year. We provide 238.1 million euros for the school year 2023 for health protection measures and the fight against the effects of the pandemic on pupils. We all enjoyed his Nobel Prize a few days ago with Prof. Zeilinger. This award is recognition for his years of scientific research; at the same time, he also shows that we must further strengthen basic research in Austria, because no one knows in what field the next groundbreaking discovery comes and whatever applications will be possible. We therefore increase the research budget by a total of EUR 510.3 million in the years 2023 to 2026. This enables us to expand central institutions for basic research and also to implement new programmes and new missions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the field of science and research, payments increase by EUR 302.4 million compared to the previous year to a total of EUR 5.9 billion. For universities, additional funds are also made available annually totalling 250 million euros. In order to relieve students and improve their financial situation, student funding is increased on the one hand and, on the other hand, is evaluated annually. Some 50 000 study aid beneficiaries benefit from this. In the years 2023 to 2026, we take a total of more than 300 million euros into our hands. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] With the provision of funds of 14.8 billion euros by 2026, we are also committed to sustainable financing of climate and environmental protection in Austria in the long term. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] Not least, the energy impact of the war in Ukraine has led us to see how important it is to become more independent of Russian gas. To achieve this, 300 million euros are planned for gas diversification by 2025. In order to increase overall energy efficiency, we take control of 190 million euros a year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That's nothing, that won't be enough! That's where you get exactly... terawatt hours!]] In the area of mobility, the priorities of the government programme will continue to be consistently implemented. By 2026, the disbursement volume will increase by EUR 1.4 billion, which is an increase of 6.6 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] This will ensure, for example, the financing of the ÖBB Framework Plan, despite rising interest rates, by providing additional EUR 503.9 million by 2026. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the field of agriculture and forestry, EUR 270 million will be made available for drinking water supply and wastewater treatment next year. 60 million euros are also budgeted for the protection against natural hazards by 2026. This is very important to reduce the risk of flood damage in spite of increased construction costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we do not finance all these measures in times of high economy, but in the midst of a crisis that our way of life has also called into question in a sustainable way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] As the Federal Government, we are setting out the right measures for Austria, for people and also for businesses. We are not only voting against the crisis, we are investing out of it in future opportunities and opportunities and we are also setting targeted priorities that will strengthen us in the long term. We invest in the military, we invest in the economy, but we also invest in the country's social security. That is what people expect of us – not only in difficult times, but now more than ever! Austria should be stronger, more secure and more independent from the crisis – out of responsibility for tomorrow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e6446	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his comprehensive presentation. [[Abg. Loacker: But they are glad that the... is gone!]] [[11:37:48]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1662 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967 and the Sales Tax Act 1994 (Part II) (1702 d.b.) 3rd. Point report of the Committee on Finance on motion 2812/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopp, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Energy Cost Compensation Act 2022 (1703 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e6487	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e6528	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not only have time tomorrow during the first reading, but also in the next few weeks to discuss the budget in detail. But a few words have to be said about this budget speech today, namely that this federal government has now repeated exactly the same mistakes it has made at the Covid Pandemic. That's terrifying. Covid's case is as follows: In the beginning, they made too little too late and too slow. When it comes to inflation, and this is also seen in this budget, you make exactly the same mistakes. A year ago, when we warned that there was an avalanche coming to us, we were told that we were exaggerating and that would not happen at all. Inflation was already 5 percent in January last year, but in the meantime we stand at 10 percent. When inflation was already 5 percent in January, the government has not yet done anything and is still sleeping in the pendulum watch. Just as with Covid, the following thing happened: The government then pretended very, very late as if the money had been abolished, and tried to kill with money the criticism and the problems. But in reality, she didn't solve problems, but she just burned money – just like Covid did, and we see that today when we look at the numbers. Mr Wöginger comes to the speaker's desk right now, and he always says very proudly: We were at Covid's European Master at the money issue! – That’s right: We have spent most of our money on the budget from all the countries of the European Union. And now we're looking at the balance sheet! Let's look at economic growth in 2020, 2021: Are we first? - No, I don't. Are we second? - No, I don't. We're in a preliminary position! Only four countries are worse than Austria, although we have spent most of our money. [[Federal Minister Brunner: Don't vote!]] The same happens now at the price [[Federal Minister Brunner: That's not true!]] We haven't done anything for a long time, and now you take money and cut it out of the window. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] I can also show you: Let us take a look at what the government has done in rents, for example! No one can blame, the government spends too little money – you really can't make this accusation – but let's remember: [[Abg. Kassinger: No, really not!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: No, we don't do that!]] Two and a half years ago, the opposition parties, all three of them, said in terms of renting: If we make it clear by law that an operation, when it is locked down due to a lockdown, is not to pay rent; then there is a law, there is that in it; if we make it clear that there is legal certainty!, what has the government, the ÖVP done at that time? – She said: No, they're supposed to clear up courts, and we're gonna give the companies the money so they can pay the rent! That means we spend more tax money so that rent is paid. In the meantime, the courts have said that there was no rent to pay. And do you know what the Cofag needs to do now? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... pay back!]] – It now has to go to those she has given the money to pay the rent, go back and ask for it; and all the companies now have to go to their landlords and ask for the money back – because you have not listened to what the opposition parties have said here in peace! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Completely absurd!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] You've made the world worse by unnecessarily removing a lot of money that you're getting back now! And what are you doing at the electricity price? – Our proposal was relatively simple. We said: Let's stop with this Merit order! It is not the most expensive power plant that determines the price of electricity, but each power plant should be replaced with the costs it needs to generate electricity. This has worked for decades in Austria – decades! – that’s a proven system. [[Federal Minister Brunner: This is Europe!]] [[Federal Minister Brunner: This is Europe!]] – Yes, but we can pull an emergency clause and say: Liberalisation does not apply! That's what other countries do, like Spain. We don't do it because you still somehow believe that the market works, although the market doesn't work. Everyone sees it doesn't work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would result in electricity prices being halved with a stroke without having to spend a euro tax money – without a euro tax money! [[Abg. Black: Wishful concert!]] But what you're doing is: They now take billions into their hands, distribute it to all households – then every money gets, every household gets money; some have to work for hours at the post office to get 500 euros; They do it in a craftsmanship, but you now give billions to households – so that they pay an unnecessaryly high electricity bill, you give billions to the businesses to pay unnecessary high electricity costs – with all the baffles: one gets too little, the other gets too much, the other gets nothing, that is, with all these problems – and at the end of the day, this leads to a few power companies making billions of profits – billions of profits! [[Abg. Black: That's not true!]] They're not building gas stores, they're building money stores because they don't even know where to go with the money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what are you doing? Do you tax these gains? Are you going to get these victories back? – No, you still lower the tax for these electricity companies next year, so that they pay even less tax! [[Call the SPÖ: Inconceivable!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I mean, that's all crazy what you're doing! They're spending billions of money to make someone win, and they're taxing you less than they do today. That's the policy you're making! It's not about you spending too little money, it's about you spending it wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] You don't pack the problems at the root and you don't solve the problems because: Prices are rising! In your own budget, you say next year, prices will rise by 6 percent once more after they have risen by 10 percent this year. And then you celebrate that as a success of your policy. They burn the tax money, and that's the bad thing: They act as if the tax money had been abolished and money no longer exists. [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... a piece of talk!]] Every euro we borrow today, we have to pay back tomorrow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: A piece of talk!]] We must repay this, including interest rates and interest rates. Well, that's a great idea! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Cabaret! A cabaret!]] And this money is missing in the back and front of the important investment in the future. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is a fake speech! A fake speech!]] That's what you're doing. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is a fake speech!]] I'll tell you one thing: Yes, Austria has had very solid households for a long time, but every year in which a budget speech is given here by the ÖVP, is a danger to the country's sustainable budget policy! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: But not with the socios!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] The earlier this federal government resigns and someone else takes care of the money, the better it is for Austria, because you drive Austria fiscally to the wall. That's really what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e6890	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e6912	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen also at home in front of the screens! It is already significant if the financial speaker of social democracy comes out here and does not lose any word on the item on the agenda, which we are actually discussing here. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true! The power price brake!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Where people have to work for 2 hours!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we abolish the cold progression – this is the sluggish tax increase that burdens all taxpayers with hundreds of millions of euros each year. After four decades of internal policy discussion, this government is now taking this – and Mr Krainer does not think it is worth taking a sentence to ensure that we leave the money in their wallets with taxpayers immediately and do not take it away for years. Ladies and gentlemen, social democracy has resigned in the area of taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are talking about 18.7 billion euros, which we will automatically return to people by 2026. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff:... you really have to correct all that...!]] Mr Krainer, I do not know where the SPÖ is currently located, which clientele you want to represent. [[Call the SPÖ:... don't worry!]] We have so far had the income limit of 11 000 euros: Up to 11 000 euros of annual income are tax-free. With this legislative decision, we will move this limit to 11 693 euros for the next year. We raise the lowest levels by 6.3 percent, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, so we take it 100 percent off, and from the stage in which the 30s rate applies, it is 3.5 percent. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: They should be much higher, you know that anyway!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, but not from the point of view of the citizen!]] This means that people will be able to keep the money with them automatically from next year. This means that next year, with an average income of around 400 euros, and over the years until 2026, it is estimated to be around 2 100 euros grossly 3 500 euros, which will also remain net to these people. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff:... are unbelievable, colleague!]] This is a measure, ladies and gentlemen, which relieves people immediately. People will immediately feel it in their money bags, and there it is incomprehensible that one does not agree with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And you won't lose a word about it! But, Mr Krainer, if you are already addressing the energy companies, then go to the SPÖ Presidency in Vienna and give your speech where the state has to provide 2 billion euros for an emergency situation, so that this company does not advocate energy where in a night-and-nebulous action the Federal Government has helped to ensure that two million electricity customers do not run the risk that the electricity will be turned off at once! [[Abg. Scroll: You didn't spend a cent!]] [[Abg. Scroll: You didn't spend a cent!]] [[Abg. Scroll: No cents! Lie!]] And you sit here and give a basic speech. You can do this at the Renner Institute, but not here in Parliament, Mr Krainer! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The second point you can give to the Sheriff of Nottingham, the Mayor Ludwig of Vienna, is: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Matznetter]] Why does the city of Vienna increase the fees by 80 to 90 percent in the area of gas, in the area of district heating, in the field of electricity? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They beat off the people in the federal capital and sit here and criticize the Federal Government because we have to help people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] What the Vienna energy pulls out of the pocket of the Vienneses, this federal government must give people back with the abolition of cold progression and with tax reliefs, otherwise they cannot live, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scroll: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Scroll: Wrong!]] That's the truth! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Schalmeiner on his work.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In order to make this clear: We, this government of the People's Party and Greens, will take decisions here today and tomorrow that are historical. Firstly, the abolition of cold progression; I mentioned it. It's an impossible word, but it's just about leaving people the same money, not raising it as taxes from them for years and then giving it back to them in the framework of big tax reforms. It is simply an honest tax policy. The second is: We valorize the family and social benefits. Have you ever looked into the agenda of today and tomorrow? That's billions of money we're giving back to people! The family allowance is automatically valorised, i.e. automatically increased annually. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Too late!]] Childcare money is automatically increased, up to the - - - too late?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Too late!]] Well, please, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, how long have you been a minister? How long have you been in the Federal Government? To say “too late ” today and to have not brought anything together in recent years, that is incredible! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: (in the direction of Abg. Heinisch-Hosek) You didn't even bring something together at the women's budget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I still have a schmankerl, Mr. Krainer, because you are criticising the electricity price brakes: They want to put a lid on it everywhere, even if it's economically a total nonsense, or lower taxes like for example in the spray. In Germany we have seen it, I live on the Bavarian border. What did the Germans do for three months? – You lowered the tax on the spray. First, the price did not go down, but then the three months were over, it was accelerated by the total amount. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] Drive to the Bavarian border in the Inn district, try to sink beyond the border and beyond the border, and you will see where it is better! It is better in Austria for the people who depend on the car, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We're making intelligent solutions, and the power price brake is such an intelligent solution, but it's based directly on the people's electricity bill. This is also one of the laws that we are adopting today and tomorrow: 4 billion euros. We are talking here about an average value of 500 euros per household. It is interesting to note that ÖGB President Katzian, whom I really appreciate – this is one in the SPÖ that you can still talk to – has actually made an interesting proposal, which was made on 17 November. ==References====External links== He asked at the time: 3 000 kilowatt hours of electricity will be limited by 20 cents per kilowatt hour. Do you know what we decide? – 2 900 kilowatt hours with 10 cents. That's a better solution. And what's the SPÖ doing? - She's not right! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Is Katzian's proposal a bad one now? [[Abg. Lightness: Who says that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] – At least you did not agree to the Committee. You can be broken. This is a good motto: You can be broken. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Then you agree and see what Mr Katzian has presented to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] All households benefit from what we decide to do, in that we guarantee the reference of 2 900 kilowatt hours, i.e. about 80 percent of the average consumption at the current price. Katzian is actually demanding a model that is even a little worse. Although he demands a little more kilowatt hours, he actually speaks of 20 cents. So our model is a better one for people and households. You did not agree to the Committee, but it may be that this will be until the decision-making process has been adopted. Maybe you'll talk about it again in the red rows. It would also not harm the SPÖ to give people this power price brake. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also decide to introduce the nursing school. This is particularly important to me as a social speaker. – Mr Social Minister, we have launched a total care package of 1.7 billion euros when we count everything together, because it is important to support caregivers and caregivers, including in financial terms, and to promote training. As an Upper Austrian, I am especially proud that the funds for the Technical University in Linz will be secured. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government has truly challenging times to accomplish. Of course, people suffer from inflation and from inflation, but the measures we are taking today and tomorrow next to the debate on the budget – I really congratulate the Minister of Finance on what he has presented to us today, because it is a future budget, because it is a budget that also gives people security in the next years and with which we also decide on the transformation of the climate – come to people, they help the Austrians. That's what this federal government stands for. We shall implement; They're blocking, and that's not the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7263	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7305	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Minister of Finance! The motto of your current budget speech is: ‘For responsibility for tomorrow’ – Safe in the future’. – In reality, this budget is a manifesto of responsibility, as if there were no tomorrow, and the secure future will be played by this federal government through a fundamental crisis policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The deficit and debt policy of this Black and Green Federal Government will continue consistently in 2023. The money is abolished, we have a record inflation, we have record debt, and we also have a massive deficit of 17 billion euros, which will certainly not keep. As in previous years, Austria will not be able to meet the Maastricht criteria in 2023. Nor will we be able to meet the Maastricht criteria by 2026. I am surprised, Minister of Finance, that you say that you want to be a strong voice within the European Union if we do not even come close to meeting these criteria. It is no wonder that last week the rating outlook of the Fitch agency was reduced from stable to negative. As a result, Austria threatens of course a downgradation and, as a result, more expensive loans. The anti-economic corona policy, which has caused massive and lasting damage to the economy, has passed seamlessly into an unreasonable sanction policy, which has no effect on the war, but has caused an energy crisis that massively stimulates the price of energy and thus destroys the prosperity and the economy in Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The sanctions are the death penalty for the economy in Austria and Europe and endanger our social peace. Due to this anti-Austrian policy of economic unreason, the budget deficit of the federal government will develop massively negatively in the following years – at the expense of the Austrians. Unfortunately, this federal government is only concerned with the consequences of the crisis, but not with the causes of the crisis. The budgetary situation will become worse and worse if this Federal Government only distributes money and does not fight the causes. This policy of irration is also reflected in the fact that the Federal Government has been in a record inflation since 1. On October 20, 2022, the price of spray by introducing CO2 power taxes has been even more expensive and thus stimulates inflation. Of course, there is something to compensate for, of course, the climate bonus for asylum seekers and prison inmates. [[Call:To whom you agreed]] There you can only shake your head. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Colleague, if you say here, we have agreed: We made a request at the last plenary session, which we wanted to correct. And who voted against? All except the FPÖ! Now to the cold progression: The FPÖ has already submitted a request for the abolition of cold progression more than 26 years ago, in January 1996. At that time, both the ÖVP and the SPÖ and the Greens voted against the abolition of the cold progression. The abolition of the cold progression was also included in the black and blue government programme, so we will also be giving this law our approval today, although it has serious shortcomings which I would like to address subsequently. According to the legislative materials, this law is intended to adapt the income tax rate to the inflation rate – and this is not the case, unfortunately. We currently have 10.5 percent the highest inflation rate since July 1952, and the trend is strongly rising. Despite this double-digit record inflation rate, however, the income tax rate for the year 2023 is adjusted by only one-digit, by 3.46 percent, and by 6.3 percent for the two lower levels. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The time-consuming adjustment mechanism provided for in the law works only in times of normal inflation, but not in times of record inflation. The right way would have been to make a 10-percent inflation adjustment of the income tax rate now – at least for 2023 and 2024. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In times like these, the Austrians need immediate and inflation-oriented relief and not a time-consuming discharge. This would have been fair and honest with the Austrians. In this context, the tax reductions for 2023 and 2024 under the age of 1.2023 could have been preferred. The cold progression is automatically balanced to two thirds each year, and that is also good. However, it is difficult to compensate for the remaining third in which no automatic compensation takes place. For the distribution of this remaining third, a very complex procedure is provided for with progress report, Council of Ministers decision and appropriate legislative proposals. It would have been easier if one had referred directly to the published annual inflation rates, as in the automatic compensation of the two thirds. I also see very difficult the use of the remaining third from 2024 onwards. There is a great risk that this third will be alienated in the future. The FPÖ will have a watchful eye on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, numerous amounts of the Income Tax Act have not been adapted to inflation. This is not only about discharge, but also about administrative simplification and debureaucratisation of tax law, such as with regard to the limit on turnover and the maximum amounts for the lump sum of farm expenditures, which the Committee still called for to be looked at. This would also have been fair to the small self-employed and the small traders who are disadvantaged, because in the case of farmers and farmers, the single value limit is very much increased – which we also support, but we would have hoped for equal rights for small businesses. Second example: Advertising fee. A simple increase to 300 euros would have saved 60,000 workers. The official kilometre fee for passenger cars has not been increased since 1.7.2008, i.e. for more than 14 years, which is a scandal in view of the CO2 tax, and the shuttle fee has never been increased since 1.1.2011, apart from the current temporary increase. The Klubobmann of ÖVP itself demanded an increase of the mileage, apparently he did not get through with it. Finally, however, this law is an important step in the right direction. As has already been said, we are going to vote in favour of this law, but we can get even better, and I can therefore make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:05]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7474	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7503	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Appreciate High House! Dear Seers! The times are challenging, that's right. It is therefore all the more important that the Federal Government has today, I believe, presented a strong sign of leadership, that it has also shown a way forward, and that it has implemented reforms that have been announced or called for for years, and is also financed by the budget, whether it be the care reform, the eco-social tax reform, the decarbonisation of the industry. [[Congratulation by the Greens and by Mr Gerstl, Mr Prinz and Mr Zarits]] We have launched the valorization of social benefits and also the abolition of cold progression. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has been demanded for many years, it has been in various government programmes – that has already been mentioned by previous speakers – and now and today it is actually decided. The abolition of cold progression is thus finally coming. This brings tax payers savings on income tax, especially in years like this, where there is a very high inflation, because this does not mean that taxes are rising in a sluggish way. This opens up, I think, a very central question: If all had been for it anyway, the government groups anyway, but also the FPÖ, the NEOS – who would have liked to have it before – are also for that – the SPÖ – which has now made itself an argument for the plenary, why it is voting against, but in principle it is also for the abolition of cold progression – why has it not happened before? [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Double Bauer and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] I see there two quite legitimate reasons: One is that governments have, so to speak, reserved to collect the money, rather than hand it back at once with a one-time tax reform. However, this had the negative or shale side-taste that it was often just before the elections and that's why a biterl smelled like populism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] That's all over now. This ongoing and eternal tax reform will prevent this sluggish tax increase and thus ensure a stable tax performance for people in the long term. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, and Mr Haubner and Mr Zarits.]] And the second, also legitimate, reason is that it costs a lot. This is good, because taxpayers save a lot, but it costs. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff:... Populism to make it before elections!]] We have now entered the budget of 19 billion euros in the next four years. It's not cheap. It is precisely because the abolition of cold progression is a ongoing tax reform for eternity and costs a lot at the same time, that it was of course very important to see that the design of this package is balanced and accurate, and that is precisely what the government has chosen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Tax increase!]] I would now like to illustrate this on the basis of an example, namely the social security of the model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] I have looked at the social security of this overall model of the abolition of cold progression, including the valorization of social benefits, and have compared this with the social security of the last tax reform under a SPÖ-led federal government. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Tax increase!]] I have printed this, and you can see here the overall package of the abolition of cold progression in green and the last tax reform under a SPÖ Federal Chancellor. [[a plate with red and green column diagrams above which in black font is “distributive effect”, in red and black tax reform, and in green font “total package cold progression” is kept in height]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Double Bauer and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] What you can see is that the reform among the reds has benefited the service providers or the best-earners from the total volume on the right hand rather than the current reform, which is the case for the Greens. [[pointing to the table]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] On the other hand, at the time the wage earners benefited only half as much from the reform as they have now benefited from this overall package of the abolition of cold progression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Double farmer:... there we had a red finance minister!]] In other words, we have achieved a very successful overall package, which still has the positive side effect – because it is almost an ongoing tax reform – that less effective tax reforms like the red one can hardly happen here in the future. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: A ongoing redistribution! A current redistribution, that's it! A current redistribution, you are still proud of it! A black redistribution!]] This flawless – in this case – green model of the Federal Government now applies almost forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7694	Next speaker: Ms. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7715	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Yes, once again pick up the casting can, even with this anti-trusion package, and the problem with casting cans is halted: You'll be empty sometime. I listened carefully to you at your budget speech. You have said something I have been longing for almost three years: that anyone in this federal government once understands that: Whatever it takes!, just don't mean: Cost what it wants! Cost it what it wants: That's what you've done in recent years, say today You at least understand that: Whatever it takes! – whatever it is necessary – something else. The problem is just, you continue with: Cost it what it wants, and start right now with this anti-treasure package. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Not careful, Mrs. Colleague!]] The price is enormous, inflation, we have already heard it, is rising to the immeasurable, the highest rate since 1952; a Putinflation, as I like to mention it, has now been driven by Putin's driving energy prices up and leading an energy war with Europe. [[English speaking]] I also listened closely to you when you said you wanted to reduce the dependence on fossil fuels and on Russian gas. I think that's good and important and right. I would just like to stress once again: The fact that Austria is dependent to such an extent on Russian gas has not been God-given or fallen from heaven. This was a conscious decision of politicians from the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the FPÖ who wanted it exactly that way – the dependence on Russian gas. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You can also read how we also warned about Nord Stream 2 from geopolitical considerations. You have us for years now, since the beginning of the pandemic, with this: Cost it what it wants!, de facto presents a full-casuality. It would be much more important, especially in these areas, to support very targetedly. What does that mean to support poorer households in a targeted way? – If, as it were, you are using the entire anti-timber packages without the increase in pensions, this is about EUR 12 billion, EUR 9 billion in the narrower sense this year, and if you look at what is intended for poorer households as, so to speak, direct support – I know that poorer households also benefit from other benefits, but if you say that's the target – then that's just EUR 400 million. That is, almost 3 percent of these 12 billion euros are very targeted for poorer households, the rest is foundry. They could have been quieter and more determined, saying: Okay, poorer households can be directly supported up to higher deciles! – but otherwise, please do what we call for NEOS to ensure that people can also afford higher prices on their own behalf. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now again to the casting can, because this climate bonus, anti-trusion bonus has also been addressed: I mean, that's casting can be pure. You said: Yes, it can happen that this is not quite correct, but better, we shoot beyond the goal! – Do you know what I really find unbearable? – That a federal government is setting up a measure that can be found, so that every 500 euros can be given, regardless of whether it is a person who is just 1 000 euros a month, or a national council member or a German chancellor – it is not in the sense that at this time it is perhaps not really targeting to do so with the casting can – and then, I think, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor are sitting in front of a photographer and giving media-effectively the climate bonus to the Caritas. So really, do you forgive me that you won't be cynical?- Oh, my God! You yourself make a measure that is so castable that the Federal Chancellor receives as much a climate bonus and an anti-truth bonus as a minimum pensioner, and then you say generously: We donate this! – I find this really ridiculous, that’s not a serious policy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Gödl: Who did you donate to?]] Our approach is to directly support poorer households, to support them more directly, and that the people in Austria who go to work, the workers, get better with their income. This was through real relief, a reduction in additional labour costs. We are now at the time of collective bargaining, now we are dealing with the question of how wages and salaries will rise. And I understand many companies and companies that say, in the face of an economically poor situation, also higher energy prices for businesses, a threatening stagflation, perhaps even a technical recession: Please, we can not simply give up these demands from the employee side, which go up to 10 percent – which is understandable if inflation is 10 percent! Why does the state not use the scope and reduce the costs of wages by means of the clear signal, but also to expect a proper increase in wages and salaries? That would mean better with income, and this would now be a very targeted support that we would have implemented NEOS in your place. [[Abg. Gödl: We lower the tariff levels!]] Now I'm coming to the cold progression. So I am not at all willing to say that we are pleased that it will be abolished – but it will not be abolished by 100 percent from the tax payers' point of view! This is indeed a long-standing demand from us. This has also been a bit of a trick in your budget speech today: They speak of remission, in doing so the abolition of cold progression is nothing but the abandonment, the partial abandonment of an additional burden. Do not scatter sand into the eyes of man! There is no real discharge in this budget. [[Deputies Pfurtscheller and Steinacker: Please!]] This cold progression is a partial abandonment of higher tax revenue. [[Abg. Steinacker: So, Beate, there's no such thing as that!]] We looked at this very carefully: Tax revenue continues to rise. That is, the effects of cold progression are lower than the additional tax revenue. That means nothing more than that other loads are coming. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] 100 percent of this has been abolished – perhaps from the point of view of the state, but not from the point of view of the citizens! We just heard. This is clearly the new redistributive policy of the EIA. For the taxpayer, this means: You pull him 100 euros more out of the bag, but you automatically give him only 66,6 periodic, 67 euros, and the rest of you reserve to give someone else – perhaps a farmer; the ÖVP would love to do this, that is also the clienttelism we see here. [[Abg. Cashier: The farmers are not taken away 100, they are all standard!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] See, that's also the thing with the shoulder closure you're warning. Of course, we think it is good that the cold progression will be abolished, but at a time when you stand down and make a policy with the casting pot, like a kind feudal lord pulls the money out of your pocket, but then distribute bonuses and vouchers with the thought that everyone should be pretty grateful that they will get their 500 euros now, it would be only right and cheap to abolish this cold progression this year, retroactive with the 1.1.2022 and 100 percent and not two thirds! That would have been NEOS, this is honest discharge policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have a bit of an impression on this budget template – if I may be allowed to do so, tomorrow we will discuss it in detail – that there is a lot of waste on the future inside, and I also want to tell you why. The high government ratio remains the same, with nothing changing at all. The high wage and tax burden in Austria remains the same; as I said, the abolition of cold progression – partly abolition – does not change anything. We know – this is what the NEOS Lab has just put on the table – that we are stagnating in the development of renewable energies. It will be invested, but it will be too little investment compared to consumption expenditure. So the future of the budget is far too small. At the same time, under a green energy minister, Austria has also succeeded in further increasing CO2 emissions. There is still a lack of comprehensive childcare, at a time when women are saying: [[Abg. Steinacker: distribution of competence?! Maybe look at responsibilities too!]] I also need to make a contribution to the income of the budget now! We know that education is the key to innovation and future prosperity. I'm completely missing in this budget, and that's just disgraceful. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinacker:... order call! That's not how it is!]] Perhaps another number because it was said that this cold progression costs 18 billion euros over the next four years: [[Abg. Steinacker: Shameful?! Just like that?]] You have accepted in this draft budget that the average age of retirement – I believe you will accept it – will rise to 62 years. Please correct me if I don't remember that right now! We are currently at just under 60, then perhaps at 62, the statutory retirement age is 65 years. If we compare with countries like Switzerland or Sweden where the average age of retirement is already 66 years, then it must be said that these four years alone per year, Mr. Finanzminister – per year! –, 12 to 16 billion euros. Here you can see what volume a truly courageous budget one would finally undertake on structural reforms, which you could really give back to taxpayers. That would be our NEOS policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, this budget is not forward-looking. I have the impression that the ÖVP says: Well, we still do this legislative period, in the next period the Ministry of Finance never belongs to us, we fly out of the government! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly! ... 10 percent!]] If we move the problems into the future, let us not tackle structural problems, let us not take up reforms! Let us leave our children a debt backpack, and let the next government strangle! Now we have to distribute money so that we can get away from the bad survey values! – And that’s really something to forget about the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7949	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e7970	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the high level of inflation has been addressed, and it is, of course, our task as a politician to best address the negative effects of this high inflation on people and on the economic location of Austria as a whole. In one I give you perfectly right: [[towards Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] Yeah, it's a renunciation of a burden. But what I don't give you right, that's 100 percent. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Not from the taxpayer's point of view!]] Of course, it will be abolished to 100 percent, to two thirds automatically, yes, and a third will also get the taxpayers back. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: They get...!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But not the individual!]] So, of course, 100 percent will be abolished. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Perhaps a few more sentences on the overall support measures: We were in January and March, Mr Krainer, the first in Europe to launch such support measures – in January and March – and both in terms of volume and speed and implementation, also in terms of parliamentary implementation, i.e. the decision-making process, we were at the forefront in Europe; this is also re-readable, of course. So: Volume, speed, January, March, we can read that, and we were there in Europe at the front. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Unfortunately wrong!]] These were the first two discharge packages, 4.4 billion euros, in January and March, and now another, a third, a large one, with 28 billion euros of discharge, in which there are short-term measures, yes, which have already become apparent over the summer, then into the broad range in autumn and above all in particular – and we are now talking about this item on the agenda – the long-term, structural discharge measures that we are putting in place here. Yeah, it's ready today. We finally did it. It has been announced by many – not so often tried – we can now. We'll do this: The cold progression is being abolished to 100 percent today! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That's important and good that way. I know you have been asking for this for a long time, and it is a pity that you are not voting today – all the better, wonderful – because, with the abolition of cold progression, we are making a sustainable system change in favour of taxpayers, because, as you have said, just this sluggish tax increase, this sluggish burden on taxpayers will be abolished. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: We agree in third reading anyway, but it is not well done!]] So we give back to people the money that inflation has taken to them, and we are glad that we can take this step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Seidl]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But a little bit more to distribute!]] So not just one part, no, 100 percent – everything! – return to taxpayers – yes, but to all taxpayers – two thirds automatically, one third, yes, next year, but also to taxpayers, to the first two tariff levels, which now benefit disproportionately from it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But not to everyone!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Distributed! The main thing is, the state is doing a little bit with it again!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is stupid!]] That's fair, I think. Mr. former Secretary of State Fuchs, you have said the level of cold progression or the level of inflation: We have deliberately chosen a way that is an independent path. We have commissioned Wifo and IHS to produce a progress report so that it does not involve political ideas, but is independently suggested how high inflation and thus the cold progression is in the year, and we stick to that. This value, proposed by Wifo and IHS, is also true of the last third – in this case 600 million euros. What does that mean? – That is to say, if tariff levels are adjusted to inflation – up to now, an annual tax has been taxed from an income of EUR 11 000 – then this limit is EUR 11 693, which shows how the amount of entry is increased. However, not only the tariff levels, but also the amount of the amortization, such as the single-earner rate, the amount of the pensioner's amortization, will be increased by the full inflation rate next year. In particular, it relieves those who need the money in particular. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the coming year alone, this measure will relieve all Austrians of EUR 1.85 billion, and by 2026 it will be around EUR 20 billion. It is very important, I believe, to have the economic effect. Of course, the positive effect also counts for each individual, but also for the national economy, of course, every euro saved means an increase in purchasing power. Eco Austria's economic researchers expect that the abolition of cold progression will increase the economy by 1 percent, and 36 000 new jobs will be created in jobs alone through this measure. Overall, I think that is already an act of fairness, so honest must be, especially in times of high inflation. It remains the people who work, more net of gross, and thus is no longer the state of great profiter of inflation, but the people are the profiters of inflation. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What must not be forgotten is the interaction between the abolition of cold progression and the recent tax reforms, i.e., lastly with the eco-social tax reform. While, on the one hand, the rates of inflation are rising in the future, on the other hand, the rates of taxation are falling. This year, the second level of tariffs has been reduced from 35 to 30 percent, and next year the third level of tariffs will be reduced from 42 to 40 percent. I am also very grateful to the budget service – I see Dr. Berger here in the hall; thank you, Dr. Berger – for considering in his analysis of the distribution effect the abolition of cold progression and the valorization of social benefits as unity. I believe that this is a very important and intelligent access, and it shows that households with less incomes are relatively relieved. In this phase with extremely high costs, we relieve all people, yes, but in particular we relieve those who need it most during this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e8157	Next speaker: Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e8181	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and also in front of the reception equipment at home! Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, I actually know you as a committed fighter for your beliefs, but actually also as a broker of real analyses and views. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: And now comes a lecture! Now I get a lecture!]] What you have just said about the effect of the discharge, namely the overall income tax on record employment, which is constantly rising, and to ignore or say that the abolition of cold progression and the already effective reductions in the first and second levels of taxation are not an individual reduction in individual taxes is unfair. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, look into your own budget, into the budget!]] That's unfair! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Where is the abolition of cold progression?]] The two things - - - the reduction in the rate of the first and the second levels and now the third is an individual reduction, and the other, you are right, is actually avoiding a further increase. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A tax reduction?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, okay, but in total, that's going down - -!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, see!]] Under the rule, it's a reduction. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Unfortunately no!]] [[Abg. Loacker: 1 billion!]] – Mathematics: One and one is still two. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of cold progression is and remains a historic step. You have said it yourself, and the other political groups have repeatedly stressed that you have repeatedly called for it in the past. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: All right!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... to do with yourself!]] Now, if you do, the answers to it are very, very different – from rejection to differentiated partial consent. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't be so sad! You can discuss content!]] That's very interesting. Last: They have said that instead of distributing money, we should give people more net of gross. That's exactly what we're doing! [[Call the NEOS:Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... more Net of Gross!]] We both do this because for people who can no longer afford certain things – energy and so on – short-term assistance is necessary – because it does not help when taxes may fall sometime in the future, but it is about helping them quickly now – but it is also necessary to help them structurally in the medium and long term so that they can help themselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: But you don't!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] On behalf of Mr Krainer: Austria is one of the most powerful economies in this continent, one of the richest countries in Europe and a country with enormous levels of social security and social peace, thanks to a high-performance population and a very innovative and competitive economy. If I were to think of your Polish speech, I would almost be inclined to say with the same polemic: despite the SPÖ! [[towards Abg. Krainer]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] However, this would not be fair to historical development, which is why I do not say it either, because the SPÖ in the past has also earned it. [[Abg. Lercher: Yes, just now!]] The fact is, we are living in this situation in this country, but fact is also that this high standard we have, this great situation in which we are in, is at the moment already threatened by the Covid crisis and now by this energy price crisis. This calls for enormous political efforts, which calls for enormous economic efforts, and it also calls for enormous personal efforts on our part. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister of Finance said earlier in his budget speech: It is crucial in crisis situations how to deal with the challenges. It's probably not a question of having to do it. Once again, the Covid situation can be seen and remembered that health policy measures, which were necessary, were taken quickly – more than in other countries, one can discuss them, but I think it was in concern for the health of people and was correct and necessary. But of course it had a corresponding economic impact, so in the consequence of the generous compensation of those companies which were finally prevented from doing business, they were declared and not more than fair, right and cheap. That's what we did. The same applies now in this energy situation, which has not been created by measures on our part, but comes from an economic war, Russia, which Putin leads with us in Europe. That's the reason. The result, however, is, at the end of the day, rising energy prices due to the gas shortage that this gentleman is deliberately and deliberately bringing about, with the desired consequences in our region. [[Abg. Erasim: A cheap excuse! ... the Putin has also introduced CO2 tax?]] Unfortunately, since we are unable at European level to achieve a decoupling of the electricity price from the gas price – and since many of us from all the political groups out there are not able to reach a solution – and we are unable to achieve the second best solution, namely to support at least the gas price – for the gas power plants, that is, for the production of electricity through the gas power plants – and thus to achieve a damping effect – we do not get sufficient approval at the moment – we do not have to take money back into our hands – if we do not want to leave people and businesses alone – in order to support people in the face of these exorbitant prices and thus costs which they cannot vote either in private households or in businesses. Before we allow a deindustrialization of our country and our continent and a loss of prosperity, not to say an impoverishment in some areas, we will now again take sufficient money into our hands, not “cost what it wants”, but take sufficient money to help people to protect people from this fate that otherwise threatens us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e8467	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e8509	Madam President. Federal Minister for Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It may not be a coincidence that the title is: “Out” – for the “responsibility for tomorrow”, “safe” – with hardly manageable debts – “to the future”. That's exactly where you chose the right title, because that's how it takes place. My previous speakers have already pointed out a few points. I would just like to stress: Mr Krainer has told you that at EUR 46.5 billion, you have caused the highest expenditures and are the fourth most recent in terms of economic growth. [[Abg. Hanger: 4.8 percent!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] This is like a football club that buys the most expensive players and goes to the third league. You're not going to advertise here, but you're saying, Sorry, folks, we couldn't do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But maybe it's because it doesn't work so well with the wording and the calculation exercises either. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Where are your speeches written? That's all invented!]] Let's just stick to this budget speech. The Minister of Finance, you can look at yourself, points out on page 9 that inflation now amounts to 10.5 percent. At the same time, he turns to us here and not only scatters sand into the eyes of all who listen, but also himself and says, super, in the mobility – in order to bring just one example – we have a plus, which is 6.6 percent. Even the easiest-thinking people will tell you: If inflation is 10.5 percent, 6.6 percent means a reduction. [[Federal Minister Brunner: (the hands in front of the face fold) Please!]] And because you don't understand, you cut the pensions – that's exactly the same thing. Then colleague Black comes and brings us red-green beams to the historical representation. You'd rather look at what this looks like today! The Momentum Institute has found the discharge. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The Socialist Momentum Institute!]] [[Abg. Hanger: Even they have written that...!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Socialist Fakenevs Party!]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're already at the Trump level. Alternative facts from the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Haubner: I prefer the budget service!]] The poorest fifth of the population gets 80 euros from this super-reform, the richest fifth of 436 euros, and the whole because you have spent up to 1 million euros. [[Call the SPÖ:Scandal!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] Mr Schwarz, then, to make himself here and to praise the social balance is an increase of people, because the social benefits – the same calculation, the valorization – bring the lower fifth, 86 euros, but the richest fifth, 33 euros. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is not a compensation, Mr Schwarz, but it is really an increase in the lower incomes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I propose an amendment to this cold progression. I would like to explain it in the broad outlines, Madam President. The most important point is: For those who have real problems buying food tomorrow, paying the rent and paying the energy bill – at the first two tariff levels – a full adjustment of the cold progression is made. [[Abg. Black: disproportionate adjustment!]] It also belongs to a progression report, which is really detailed, which income situation in particular exists between men and women, because you also give the men the most out of the cold progression, which is also written in the main book of the Greens. And the distribution of the third, which is still available, must be done explicitly in terms of social policy, poverty-avoiding aspects, and not in your own pocket, as you do here. The Members of Parliament and the members of the Government with their relations are the greatest profiters of those whom I have read. It is not those people who have an average relation. Stop using your own wallet and friends! [[Call the ÖVP: Please, Christoph! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Haubner: The story doesn't believe you anymore!]] The ÖVP always does that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The 46 billion euros – should I read to you now? We've had a who's who of the friends of Sebastian Kurz. [[Abg. Haubner: The story doesn't believe you anymore!]] [[Abg. Hanger: So so embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Zarits: He has at least friends in contrast to you!]] Who's got everything? How much did the furniture chains get? [[Abg. Black: That was once a state-bearing party!]] How much did Benko get? What about Martin Ho? How high were the demands? - No, I don't hear you! [[Abg. Black: That's so embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's embarrassing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – It’s embarrassing to you yourself, and small businesses are still waiting for the payouts today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible! So embarrassing!]] Thus is the ÖVP, and it still supports it. [[Abg. Hanger: Please go!]] [[Abg. Haubner: So primitive!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Primitive is that!]] Shame on you, green friends! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: An order call for primitiveity!]] [[Abg. Hanger: Please go! Krainer/Matznetter, the financial-political dream duo!]] [[12:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9063	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Vogluer, I give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9087	Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Madam President. Dear High House! Mr Matznetter, to stand here, to say “Shame on you” and to judge each other, as did colleagues from NEOS and colleagues from FPÖ: I think that's exactly what we don't need at all today. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] When I'm out with people and talking to them about politics, people tell me no matter what couleur: What is happening in Parliament today is not worthy of the dignity of the House. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] They're perfectly right with that. You know why? And not that's why, Mr. Lercher, you're noding there now! . At this time when so many people are wondering how they can pay their monthly taxes, we have the task of bringing together an epaulette policy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is the task of our Members here in this House, and we have done so very well. [[Abg. Erasim: They lead the land like a NGO! Otherwise, you won't do anything! You think that's...! It's a joke! An absolute naughtiness of your policy!]] We've been presented with a great budget today. With one I would like to clean up: The smallest and youngest ones who start their education careers with us have an additional billion due to this budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We have managed with this budget to bring in much more support staff. This is also very much about psychosocial assistance. We have continued to secure the 100-school programme and we have a great school expansion program. We simply can't do that, and you can do that with colleague Meinl-Reisinger. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] Before the first row of hysterical attacks, I continue with agriculture. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: So much about dignity!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] As far as agriculture is concerned, it is very often so that in Austria one is very inclined to say: Wow, farmers get something now! – I am a farmer myself and have spent the last 20 years building my small farm together with my family. I understand if farmers now also need a discharge. These are families who often work seven days a week all day. There are no rare 14-hour days, and the wage for this is an average gross income per year of just over 34 000 euros. Social benefits are still to be paid. I would say that is one of the lowest average incomes we have in Austria, and we are also too rarely aware of this in the debate in this House. [[Abg. Silvan: Your agricultural policy!]] Some larger farms are being picked out here, but forget about how the bulk is in agriculture. [[Abg. Erasim: The gros above all, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Loacker: The peasantry couldn't cry better in front! It's for the benefit of the man! Did the Strasser write the speech to you?]] I am therefore pleased that in this discharge package, we have also lifted the additional limit on the additional acquisitions and also raised the flat-rate limits to EUR 600 000. Why doesn't this bother us as a green person? You know why? – If we talk differently about valorizations everywhere, when we talk about inflation adjustments, then agriculture, which provides your daily breakfast, Mr. Loacker, deserves the same. - Thank you. Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9257	The next item is the speech by Mr Hermann Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9278	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For three years the Austrians have been living in crisis mode, afflicted and plagued by a disproportionate black and green corona policy, socially shared and split by a similar black and green corona policy. At the same time, we are now experiencing a misguided government policy, a misguided funding policy of this federal government. Mr Federal Minister, you will not be able to dispute it, but the casting pot is now one of the favourite equipment and one of the favourite instruments of this Federal Government. If I say misguided government policy, I can only take this as an example: At the most unfavourable time, Mrs. Weessler's CO2 tax was introduced, a climate tax that was introduced at a time when the fuel price was already 2 euros, when the fuel price was 1,50 euros, 1,60 euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black.]] So people have been clearly burdened. In spring, it was tried – it should have been a support – to introduce an energy cost compensation. It has also been decided, but once again in the form of a very complicated, very bureaucratic model, in which many people do not know, but which in the end only represented the drop on the hot stone and which, above all, has excluded and excludes parts of the population. It is precisely those Austrians who would need it most, who cannot benefit from this energy cost compensation. It is citizens who, although carrying the energy costs on a monetary basis, do not appear as partners, as a customer vis-à-vis the electricity supplier. There are residents in the nursing homes, in the old houses, in the student homes, in multigenerational households. In general, it is the young and the older generation. It is almost once again a staircase that the government is drawing here that it was the former Secretary-General of the Austrian People's Party, the now popular lawyer Gaby Schwarz, who was sitting here in the first row six months ago, who, in a letter to the parliamentary groups, reported this very fact and was committed to allowing these people to cope with this energy cost. The Ministry of Finance, Mr. Minister, informed her that this would simply not work and that there is simply no such thing. That is why Gaby Schwarz, a popular lawyer, is asking Parliament for help, and we, as a liberal, are also responding to this request. [[Abg. Loacker: That's the law she's bombarded herself, the Gaby Black!]] In this context, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9413	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Scharzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9442	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! For half a century now, the debate on the abolition of cold progression is a fixed part of the tax policy discourse in this country. In the future, we can save ourselves this debate, because the Federal Government is keeping what it promises: She'll get rid of the cold progression. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This structural reform as a long-term relief measure eliminates the sluggish tax increase to 100 percent, automates two thirds of it, and remains a third of the policy available to distribute flexibly and in a solidar manner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] There are some colleagues in this House who call this model a mogel pack, which accuses Mr Finanzminister that he only partially abolishs the cold progression, or even accuses him of giving up a margin of action for the remaining third. That's just wrong. In any event, the legislative text provides that this third party must be returned to taxpayers in the form of tax relief measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is precisely what ensures this political flexibility, which we now need for greater confidence. The abolition of cold progression is also an act of fairness to all diligent workers, because it is precisely those people who earn income by means of benefits that cannot be penalised taxly. As comparatively younger Members of this House, something about generation justice: You can't live by the motto: The state will judge it. All the more important, therefore, are these targeted priorities in the 2023 budget, especially in the smaller and medium-sized income areas. Mrs. Meinl- Reisinger stands out here and screams, according to “fortification” – here we are exactly at this last third of the cold progression, where this room for action is given for even greater confidence in long-term relief measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Shetty: This becomes more critical from generation to generation!]] We do not abandon the citizens. That is why we are taking further steps, such as the valorisation of social benefits or the power price brake. For example, we promote the basic need for electricity, but we also ensure that those who also need support receive it. The ‘necessary to make available’ – said the Minister of Finance today in his budget speech. This is mainly addressed to the Socialist Group: You have to say goodbye to this full-casco state wish. It is about the money of taxpayers and taxpayers. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lercher and Mr Wimmer.]] . Well, Mr Commissioner, a broad economic competence is not attributed to your group, the SPÖ. [[Complementary and intermediate call to the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This brings me to the last point – particularly Mr Vogluer has also mentioned it – because these debates are constantly calling for intermediate calls and we often stop changing party-political small money: It's not time for that now. People are worried and anxious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wicker.]] I wish for this country that all of us, together, take these concerns and fears of the population seriously, and I wish that we all, together with reason and understanding, lead through this difficult time. [[Abg. Worm: I would like that too!]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] One thing is clear: Our Federal Government is doing great things, and I am absolutely convinced that no one will lead us through this difficult time better financially than this Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9554	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9575	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Mr Scharzenberger, your group said that about Minister Blümel at the time, right? [[Rejoicing and condolences of Mrs Silvan and Mr Wimmer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] After 36 years in the Federal Government, the ÖVP has now been able to get through to tackle the issue of cold progression. [[Abg. Hanger: You only need to agree more now!]] Now I want to highlight the positive: It will be abolished to two thirds, and that is much better than nothing, I would like to pay tribute to. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hanger: This is a compliment from you: much better than nothing!]] Today we are introducing an amendment, the cold progression to the whole and also retroactive with 1. That's the end of this year. [[Abg. Hanger: To be abolished!]] I can now explain it in its basics and I would like to draw attention to how the government is concerned with the abolition of cold progression. Not all amounts are valued in the Income Tax Act, but only quite certain, for example, the single-earner discount, because it is important for the ÖVP that women stay at home and the pensioner's retirement rate, because they want good electoral results for pensioners. [[Abg. Hanger: Gerald! If they want!]] The boys are still sausaged – those who go to work and make money, for example, make overtime. The amount of the overtime allowance shall not be valorised, the amount of tax-free employee participation shall not be valorised, and the limits for the profit-free amount shall not be increased in the case of self-employed persons. [[Abg. Double builder: performance carrier!]] So they look exactly where they valorize and where they do not valorize. In times of lack of labour, one should actually reward those who work a lot, i.e. double the amount for overtime supplements. For the people who work full-time, you have to introduce a discount rate – they are very much sought – and you have to halve the wage tax for people who work longer – for those who, for example, still work at 65 years of age – so that you can pay if skilled workers stay in working life longer. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you did, you could get better with more income. A special treat is the way in which the family compensation fund contribution is reduced from 3.9 to 3.7 percent. The Federal Government has already agreed to do so, which is not the case for a great wage reduction. However, this, valued entrepreneurs, is associated with a trap. This does not apply automatically from 1. You know, you need a wage-forming provision based on this regulation. This has not yet been done in the history of the Second Republic that the KV or the operating agreement must establish that one can use the additional wage reduction decided by the legislator. There's never been that before. Mr Wimmer, you probably do not know that the collective agreement has ever changed the additional wage costs. [[Abg. Rainer Wimmer: No!]] – That has not yet been done, this is now being determined for the first time. If you have a company that changes the collective agreement only next April or next May, and you do not agree with your works council or You don't have a works council at all, then you have to communicate it internally yourself, so that you can prove to the wage authority later that you have done so, otherwise you may make the contribution on 1st. Don't let them down at all. Great reform! Then it is said – even today at 7 p.m. at Radio Venezuela – that the abolition of the cold progression would reduce the federal revenues. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] She does not, of course, lessen her, but she just does not climb so strongly. Even the organization, whose Secretary-General is Karlheinz Head, the Chamber of Commerce, has calculated that the tax rate will rise from 2022 to 2023. So the state still takes in more money. This Republic still has no revenue problem, it has an expenditure problem, and the government's foundry policy only makes it worse to distribute the five hundred people to those whom they do not need, for example to me. If you look at where the money goes, the budget goes: The pension hole's tearing it up. 2.7 billion euros more alone for pensions next year and a 10 billion euro larger pension hole in four years – 10 billion euros. There's nothing done, no movement, on the contrary: There are even incentives to retire earlier, and I will come to the next item on the agenda. The interest on government debt doubles from next year, and then it says: We are investing! – Please, what kind of investment? This is not an investment if you have to pay interest for your debts. We pay for the debt policy of this government and the previous governments. Figures must be for the boys because the money for universities, schools and real future investment is missing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The revelation page for all who want to read it can be found in the budget speech on page 31: If a finance minister has to use the financial situation of Italy as a comparison for its own quality, then we can see what a disastrous situation the Austrian budget is in today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Double farmer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] [[12:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9924	The amendment was presented in its main guidelines and has already been distributed. The next speaker is Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e9956	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Without a doubt: We are in a situation where people are less alive, because inflation is also correspondingly high. We must do everything we can to help people in this certainly not easy situation. I would like to address speeches mainly from social democracy, because this is always the case here, whether in the past, in recent months, the price of inflation or the price of inflation had not been done. It is important that we take short-term measures on the one hand – we have already decided on them and the funds are already in disbursement – and, of course, we also need to change the tax system in the long term. On the one hand, we do this with the eco-social tax reform and, on the other, with the abolition of cold progression. This is a milestone in tax policy in Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] What's happened in the last six months? – In particular, social democracy forgets very, very often the measures it has also taken: Pendler fee, especially for those dependent on the car: plus 50 percent; Pendlereuro: Quadruple of the Pendlereuros until mid-2023; the single payment for families: 180 euros per child also in August; now the anti-esteem and climate bonus with 500 euros plus 250 euros per child; Pensioners: plus 500 euros, up to 500 euros plus one-time payment; and above all those groups that have little money at their disposal, who are particularly affected by the price of money – students who receive study grants, people who are unemployed, even minimum pensioners – have already received a single payment three times: 150 euros in January, 150 euros in April, 300 euros also in September, which in addition to the climate and anti-treasure bonus makes 1 100 euros. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Single payment! Inflation!]] They see how quickly and unbureaucratically the Federal Government and, above all, the Minister of Finance is helping. In addition, we relieve households with the energy cost brake: 2 900 kilowatt hours are guaranteed with a price of 10 cents, and that until mid-2024. There is quick and unbureaucratic help: The payments, the decisions have already arrived at the people. We have also decided on the eco-social tax reform. Tax rates have been lowered: from 25 to 20 percent, from 35 to 30 percent and from 42 to 40 percent next year. As far as the families are concerned, the family bonus plus has also been increased from 1,500 euros to up to 2 000 euros. This is a milestone in tax policy and family policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But not for everyone!]] Now it's about us abolishing today's sluggish tax increase, the cold progression. I also invite social democracy, especially colleagues in Krainer, to jump over its social democratic shadow and to vote with us, because it is what we need in this situation: that we adapt the contributions accordingly to inflation so that people remain more money in the stock exchange. [[Call the SPÖ: Surely not!]] [[Abg. Lercher: I'm not a shadow!]] Ladies and gentlemen, an example has already been mentioned by the Minister of Finance today, so that one can imagine what this abolition of cold progression per person brings: [[Abg. Krainer: I think the Zarits have brought far too few numbers!]] 2 160 euros per employee would be 2 000 euros next year. [[Abg. Krainer: Ah, there are still a few!]] With the abolition of cold progression, this is a plus of 370 euros next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will bring together a broad decision today. For over 40 years, it has been discussed that this cold progression should finally be abolished. The arguments why it didn't go were always: should, would have, could, would. Today's the cold progression story and that's good. Mr Krainer, I hope you're there.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10070	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10091	I find it very unfortunate that this pult, from Members of Parliament, should focus on the fact that they are suffering “hysterical attacks”. I don't think it's lost anything in this high house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: I didn't say!]] [[Abg. Disoski: No one said that!]] - No, no, no! A colleague mentioned this from this pult earlier, and I regret that this is really a problem. Hysterical is something that we are used to by conservative men, but not by green ladies who blame such a thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] But let us now come to the abolition of the cold progression: Half of our society is women, and this half of society benefits from this model for the abolition of cold progression, unlike men, only to a fraction. 40 percent get women, 60 percent get men. This is a further deposit on gender inequality in this country. I also need to slow down the joy of Mr Schwarz, as far as the abolition of cold progression is concerned, because it is unfair. It's unfair! If then the ÖVP is still producing and says: The hardworking in this country must be rewarded! Then I ask you: [[Abg. Hanger: That's right!]] Are the women not industrious? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Are not women industrious when they do much of the unpaid work in that country? Are women not industrious when they are pushed into part-time employment by their policies? Are not women industrious once again because of the politics of this federal government? This model for the abolition of cold progression lets women look through their fingers and once again without support. They continue to invest in this inequality, instead of introducing the right to child rearing from the first year of life. They invest in this inequality, instead of making public transport in rural areas so attractive to women. They invest in inequality in this country instead of eliminating child poverty. A few figures on this: In the government programme, ÖVP and Greens agreed that poverty should be halved in this country. Since the pandemic, child poverty has intensified in this country. [[Abg. Worm: You Social Democrats are also responsible, Mrs. Colleague!]] What once affected each fifth child now affects every fourth child. A quarter of all children live in poverty in this country. That means: no jause for the school, that is, too small or broken clothes, that is, not being able to take part in the trip. [[Abg. Loacker: And that after 100 years SPÖ!]] And this child poverty has worsened and affects a quarter of all children! A sad record of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: You were there with these decisions!]] The abolition of cold progression is also exactly what is being paid in this uneven policy of the Federal Government. The family bonus was exactly the same, even there the women looked through their fingers again, just as now. The budget service has analysed – the great budget service, which is also said at this point – that the gap between men and women will be further apart by the abolition of cold progression by 2026. In the end, women get out at a quarter less under the line. This is problematic in a country where the shear is still 20 percent in wages and 40 percent in pensions. And now the women look through their fingers again. We can't accept that anymore, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: So you are against the abolition of cold progression?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Weidinger.]] They do not meet your obligation either: Gender budgeting is in a constitutional position in Austria and, through gender budgeting, you should also have examined this measure for the justice of the sexes. You do not seem to have done so because it does not pay for gender equality at all. Thus, you simply did not comply with your order in this area in any way. Under the rule comes out: The women are the losers in this abolition of cold progression.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10278	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10308	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I've been listening very attentively to all morning, and they say, as always, it's too much what we're doing, the others say it's too little. One says it's too early, the other say it's too late. – This makes me sure that we are right in the middle with our measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: It's never too late!]] The Federal Government has reacted rapidly and forward-lookingly to this continuing wave of inflation. We have chained packages and above all three objectives: the preservation of purchasing power, the preservation of economic performance and, above all, the safeguarding of jobs. That was particularly important to us. If you look at the numbers, you can see that we did it quite well. I also believe that this is justified by the fact that we have taken over EUR 46.5 billion in support. When Mr Matznetter turns out here and criticizes that we have taken money to support the companies, I say: It was right for us to have done this because we have also received jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... the big ones have disassembled!]] – Mr Matznetter, I have listened to you, I think you are discrediting yourself if you permanently play out the entrepreneurs who receive support. [[Abg. Matznetter: No, they had more profits than before!]] You don't do that! This is unworthy of a Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Matznetter. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] I'm telling you, the measures have taken place. Austria currently has an economic growth of 4.8 percent. When I look over our border to Germany, I see that they no longer have growth there. That is right for us to think about, because we are in a strong dependence on Germany, and we can only hope that the Germans will take the right measures to return to the growth path, ladies and gentlemen. Since today the Momentum Institute has also been quoted: The Momentum Institute has found that the lower 20 percent of income stakeholders were overcompensated in the price. The budget service confirms that the mix of the abolition of cold progression and the valorization of social benefits, in particular, relieves the lower incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking to ensure that the right and appropriate measures are taken for everyone. You can rely on it: This government assumes its responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10389	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10413	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So that someone on the agenda might say a few sentences – I understand, of course, that the Members of this House are commenting on Mr Minister's budget speech; that was all too fresh: Among other things, the agenda includes the extension of the deadline. [[Abg. Hanger: That was addressed to my colleague Krainer now, isn't it?]] - Jo. Among other things, the agenda includes the change of the deadline on the part of the government parties to the Energy Cost Compensation Act. This is about the energy cost compensation, you can remember one of the first measures, 150 euros for those who have an energy supply contract. At that time, in spring, in the first half of the year, we have already criticized this and not agreed, because many who need it do not benefit from it, namely: fellow citizens, students, housing communities. They are excluded because they do not have an energy supply contract. So: 150 euros, a lot more bureaucracy. It also shows the extension of the deadline until which it can be submitted that it has not worked so far – this has been a three-quarters-year-old anyway – and that is why we will not agree to the extension of the deadline. But I am not going to lose a few words on the budget, because I have followed the speeches very well, including your speech, Mr Federal Minister. Among other things, you have said – and thank you for the written presentation of your speech – that: [[Keeping a multi-paged document in height]] “In spite of this, all those parties who have always been for the abolition of the cold progression have been looking for reasons why they are now suddenly voting against it.” - That's it. You can remember my colleague Evi Holzleitner's speech. It has massively criticized the fact that women benefit only 40 percent of the abolition of cold progression. Mr Federal Minister, why should I vote as a feminist as a citizen, as a taxpayer, as a mother of two daughters? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why don't you take the historical opportunity to close the income shears a little further? We will not close them with the abolition of cold progression anyway, but why do men benefit 60 percent and women to 40 percent of it? Why do you want me to agree? One answer to that is that we are still guilty, including all the speakers of the government parties. [[Abg. Loacker:... Women working part-time...!]] Maybe you'll tell us a reason why this remains so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10472	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10498	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I go into the abolition of cold progression, I would like to briefly replicate Mr Matznetter. I can hold on. In the Corona pandemic – and we still have the same assessment – the Republic of Austria – the Federal Government, the Parliament – has taken a lot of money into its hands. It is 45 billion euros that have been moved there. I am already holding – and you can discuss with each individual measure whether it is perfectly safe: We have achieved excellent economic policy through this crisis. [[Abg. Matznetter: No! ...!]] We have an economic growth of 4.8 percent and are therefore in the top European field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: No!]] It's just a fact. Before I come to the abolition of cold progression, I would like to give a general overview. If you take these 45 billion euros that we have spent to combat the corona pandemic, if you count together the effects of the tax reform, if you look at the ecologisation of the tax system – in total, this is almost 20 billion euros – if you take the short-term measures, the cost packages, the structural measures – I am then when the cold progression is abolished – then you see, we are able to move 100 billion euros with our economy. This is already a sign to me of an incredibly strong economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I think it is once again the most important that we have a competitive economy that we have well-trained, productive workers, that we have a broad population that is willing to make their contribution every day, that we have prosperity in our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] That is also something we can be really proud of. To abolish the cold progression: historical, milestone – one should always be careful with these terms. But since I'm looking at Colleagues Loacker: I think it's a little hard on you today, isn't it? For years to demand something and then not to support it, I always find that a bit remarkable. However, it is almost 20 billion euros that we have less tax revenue. I would like to stress that I also think it is very wise. Why do I think it's smart? – On the one hand, because two thirds happen automatically. This is especially true of the famous middle class, which is so important for us. These are those who do their daily work, who also pay income tax. By the way, you can only relieve someone who also pays income tax. We want to relieve the classical middle class as ÖVP, yes, but we also want to show ourselves very solid – that is also very important to us – by the third third of course going into redistribution measures and very much addressing the lower income stakeholders, because – that is true – those most affected by the price. [[Call the SPÖ: Very good!]] However, we are also in favour of cohesion in society, which is very important to us as an ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not need to re-list these many achievements that have been done there. Finally, the most important message from my point of view: It's incredible amounts that we're dealing with as an economy. I said it: 100 billion euros. However, in the medium-term financial planning, it is still possible to reduce the relative indebtedness. Especially for us as an ÖVP, it is important to have in mind the debt level as well. On the other hand, a moderate budgetary policy succeeds in repressing debt – at 70 percent. For me, this is one of the many positive news of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10587	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10608	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I see that you today, with your budget presentation, have denied an opportunity to leave this path taken by the Federal Government. The measures presented today also lead to one again, namely that people with lower incomes do not benefit as much as people with high incomes in our country. These are measures that should not be put in place. This is evident in many details you have mentioned today, and also in all the analyses that are now available, one is shown: that the price is not countered accordingly. These so-called discharge measures, which you take, primarily benefit those who are not so much affected by the price. The low-income households benefit much less from the measures you take, and this is a structural mistake which unfortunately continues here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this leads to measures that cost relatively much money. You're right, it'll spend a lot of money. We do not criticize the amount of money spent. The problem is that it is mis-issued and mis-used. The one-off payments do not solve any structural problem. However, we need a structural solution to the problems and not one-off payments, which have not solved the problem and are also very badly crafted. Every day citizens come to us because the climate bonus has not yet been paid out because they have not yet received it because there are problems with the postal service and, and,. So you can see that it didn't work by hand. In fact, the money does not come to people. In one point, I would like to ask you: The abolition of the cold progression – which, I believe, is already busy with our entire political life – is indeed an issue that belongs to us. Only when the cold progression is abolished can you see that you – in the form you do – unfortunately again relieve those who do not need it so urgently. The high incomes will again be relieved significantly more. The abolition of the cold progression saves a household in the lowest income five only about 80 euros, a household in the top five of incomes, on the other hand, about five and a half times as much. So this imbalance will continue. If a measure already costs EUR 1.8 billion, it should have a distribution effect that is fair. We therefore have this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Matznetter, which would take account of precisely this distribution effect. Because today the Momentum Institute has been quoted time and again: The opposite is the case. The Momentum Institute has clearly stated that the measures taken by this Federal Government in the case of lower incomes are not – not exactly, yes – exactly the conclusion, is read to the bottom – the desired effect and does not break down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger]] That's the problem. This government is putting the wrong measures with the budget, which is why we see these points very, very critical. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10674	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have just been informed by our minutes section that, as there have been a number of amendments, we need a comprehensive voting croquis for this vote, and that will take time now. If, on your part, and on the part of the political groups, there is no objection, then I would, so that we can have the Croquis completely, vote on the motion for a resolution. Put the next voting block, after agenda items 4 to 9. If you agree, I shall proceed in this way and put the votes to the time before the vote on Agenda items 4 to 9. We are now continuing in the debate. Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10714	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! In total, 7.5 million Austrians benefit from the abolition of cold progression. With one of the largest structural reforms in the Austrian tax system, more wages, more net of gross. With the eco-social tax reform and the abolition of cold progression, we have permanently changed our tax system. The end of the sluggish tax increase – and nothing else is the cold progression – is a step that has been considered for a long time and is now implemented by this Federal Government. There are 20 million euros of tax relief by 2026. [[Abg. Krainer: billions!]] How does it work? [[Abg. Krainer: billions!]] – billions, apologies, a promise. Thank you for your comment, Mr Krainer. This is a sign that you are listening attentively to my speech, I am very pleased. [[Abg. Krainer: That's me!]] With the abolition of cold progression, all tariff levels will rise by inflation in the coming years. A pensioner or a pensioner with a gross pension of EUR 1 582 will remain in the wallet until 2026 3 770 euros, which is almost EUR 1 000 a year. A full-time force with 3 170 euros remains gross until 2026 4 100 euros, which is just over 1 000 euros a year. For the first time in 20 years, the turnover limit of the package has been increased for farmers. The unit value limit for the partial payment and revenue and expenditure activities will also be adjusted. The abolition of cold progression supports purchasing power and thereby strengthens the domestic economy. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] According to Eco Austria, our Minister of Finance has already mentioned it, the end of the cold progression will bring a GDP growth of about 1 percent and an employment increase of about 37,000 people, with the number of unemployed going down by 20 000 people. 7.5 million Austrians benefit. In my constituency alone, namely in the districts of Gänserndorf and Bruck an der Leitha, there are 80 000 people subject to pay and around 7 000 companies each. In addition to the measures against inflation, these structural changes, namely the eco-social tax reform and the end of the cold progression, are milestones of this federal government. I also consider the decision to make a part of the bill to be a good decision to respond to the various challenges in a situational sense. Finally, I would like to quote our Minister for Finance, who said in his budget speech: “Many governments have tried it, many have promised, a few have perhaps tried it less, we have done it.” – Congratulations, Mr. Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10783	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10804	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Minister of Health! Highlight Values and colleagues! Dear Seers! The abolition of cold progression is a milestone in the history of the Second Republic. [[a panel with the title “Abolishing the Cold Progression” and a box placed in a circle on the speaker:inside]] The abolition of the cold progression has been demanded for decades, and this federal government makes it possible and eliminates it. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can also make this visible by means of a few examples. The example of the minimum pensioner or the minimum pensioner with a monthly income of 1 030 euros: With the compensation allowance, these persons remain 80 euros per month. That is more than 1 000 euros for 14 salaries. That's an additional 15. Wage, ladies and gentlemen, that's not a small thing! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Or we take the average income of 2 160 euros per month. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned it today: If cold progression were not abolished, this money would be worth only 2,000 euros per month next year. With the abolition of cold progression, this is 370 euros more in the year. If we add that up to 2026, then the EUR 5 000 is net for this average income. Ladies and gentlemen, not only the abolition of cold progression has been implemented as a discharge measure this year. There were many examples, ranging from one-off payments to longer effective measures implemented, from climate change and anti-proliferation bonuses to support for the vulnerable groups, the unemployed and pensioners, from special family aid to the increase in the pre-pendler's fee and the pendlereuros to the increase in the family bonus and the additional child. Amazing is – and it can be seen again that the measures work –: If you take the lowest 20 percent of the income earners, you can see that the price for this group has been more than paid off, which is more than compensated. Thus, this Federal Government has also realized the necessary redistribution and has, above all, managed to support all people with lower incomes in particular. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Disoski and Mr Maurer on his work.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We also decide to support agriculture and forestry. The farmers are faced with many challenges, not only with the climatic conditions, but above all with the volatile markets, but also with farm resources that have exploded. With the increase in the flat-rate tax rate from EUR 400 000 to EUR 600 000 or the increase in the ceiling for the partial flat-rate adjustment from EUR 130 000 to EUR 165 000 and, last but not least, with the increase in the income limit for agricultural and forestry support from EUR 40 000 to EUR 45 000, we create a simplification for farms. One thing is quite clear: The farmers deliver high-quality food every day, they cover the table three times a day with best food and thus also ensure the food supply in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Each and every one of us has the power to influence whether Austrian agriculture will continue to exist in the future. With every handle in the shelf, with every purchase decision we can contribute to the support of farmers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are many measures, there are good measures being implemented by this Federal Government. That is why I am pleased, although the opposition parties who have in the past repeatedly cried out and called for these measures to be hopefully accepted here and today, because these measures are good, these measures support the Austrians and that is why we decide on them.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10890	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e10912	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators:in the gallery! Col. Holzleitner and colleague Yılmaz, referring to an analysis of the budget service, carried out that women would benefit less by abolishing cold progression than men. That's right. The results of the budget service simply reflect what we have known politically for a long time, namely that women work more frequently in those areas where income is lower, and that women take over most of the unpaid care. As a result – no – of course, they benefit less from tax compensatory offers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's a fact, yes. You can take note of this or not. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But we do not want to take note of it, but we want to move on. And in order to continue, this Federal Government has finally taken two important steps towards child care, among other things, with a kindergarten billion and with a large offensive for the expansion of elementary pedagogy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's all a dizziness!]] This will, among other things, improve the compatibility of family and work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Erasim: No more shelter! Not one!]] We've launched the care reform. Why is this important to women, colleague Heinisch-Hosek? – This is why it is important because women work in care, especially under very difficult conditions and with bad wages. That's what we're improving. This too is an important step in women's policy. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] – Mrs Colleague, you can speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. If you roar at me, I don't understand half. But I can tell you two things: The kindergarten billions and the elementary education campaign will help. [[Abg. Kollross: Where is it?]] They'll help. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What will help – and here we agree, colleagues from the SPÖ – are an increased wage transparency, contemporary karenz models, which at last also distribute the care work, the concern obligation between men and women fairly, and much more. I can tell you that we are not going to be green in the Federal Government until we have finally implemented it. I am pleased to know that social democracy as an ally on our side too. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, a note: What my colleague Holzleitner and also colleague Yılmaz did not mention is that the budget service has analysed the entire distribution effect of the three discharge packages that the Federal Government has attached. The abolition of the cold progression is only part of these three packages. And the budget service analyzed all three packages. What does the distribution effect look like when you look at all three packages in total? - Well, there's another result. That's where the budget service – I quote – says: ‘The total relief volume of the cost compensation package shall be relatively equal to that of women and men.’ And further – I quote from this analysis of the budget service –: ‘When considering different types of budget, the relative discharge of the measures under study is highest in single-parent households [...].’ [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Erasim: We don't want any relative discharges, we want real discharges!]] The majority of these are known to be women. Mr Yılmaz and Mr Holzleitner, if they are your concern – I know it is – you agree with our proposals, among other things, as women and women.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11030	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11060	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before we debate budget and cold progression, Mrs von der Green, allow me to say: The kindergarten billions are available in your PR papers, but there are not yet the communities and interested parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that's the problem of your government work: They're talking about things that don't happen in reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, Minister, to talk briefly about the budget here: One point that is crucial to us that we reject it is that this budget will not reduce inflation. That is why this budget is not a good budget for Austria, because it does not meet the most pressing problem we have today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You said people can rely on the state. – People cannot rely on the state because you do not answer the most pressing problem. [[Abg. Steinacker: But go!]] And I tell you, even in the cold progression, your wrong thinking continues. We vote against, and the comparison makes us sure that we MEPs benefit from your reform three times as much as the average earners do. [[Abg. Steinacker: There is no such thing!]] And that is not fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's not the justice we want. Rewarded You don't like to talk about the performance providers you're talking about. [[Abg. Steinacker: We are also performance carriers!]] That is why the distribution effect is wrong and the social democracy is against it. Thirdly, there is no counter-financing. It will exist, but at the expense of the general public. That is to say, all those who make daily efforts will have to pay again at the end of the day, because you are not prepared to introduce a wealth tax and to recover profits, ladies and gentlemen. You're not ready to hurt your donors, and that's what happens on the back of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourth – the actions make sure –: The fact that you are maintaining the CO2 tax shows your character in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, allow me to make a statement, Minister: They have said that inflation is not a question of political ideology. – Yes, with you already, because you place the market above everything and consider every rule there as God-given. [[Abg. Steinacker: A fool!]] Ask your priest on Sunday if the market is in the Bible! He will tell you that he is not there because it is up to us to lay down the rules of the market, for the benefit of the general public and not for the benefit of the few. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As long as You are carrying out this dogma, namely that the market is unattended and is allowed to do what it wants, as long as there will be no real change for the many in this country, Mr. Minister. [[Abg. Steinacker: We little Austria, we determine the world market! That's right!]] This dogma makes you blind to the insight, blind to a policy that should help people. This policy, which you pursue today, threatens social peace, and that is sad, sad for Austria, sad for our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: The people see this a little different!]] Yes, in here you still clap, but outside nobody's claping at all, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition. [[Abg. Steinacker: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Jewellery: Nobody's claping for you!]] I'll tell you one thing because you've been talking about it today. People are worried and afraid, say in every speech. – They’re afraid of your policy, because it hits them outside! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] This budget, which you present today, is a fixed record of your political failure. Therefore, social democracy will vote against – out of responsibility for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11255	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. I have to make a small correction to the vote: We have to put the vote to the vote so that we do not have to interrupt the sitting, but the vote will take place after item 14 because the voting block is there and not as mistakenly mentioned earlier in Agenda items 4 to 9. The moved votes will therefore take place after item 14 in order not to have to interrupt the sitting. I say goodbye and thank the Minister for Finance, who was, of course, present at this debate. The vote will take place later. [[13:40:22]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2810/A by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues with regard to a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act, the Pension Act 1965, the Federal Theatre Pension Act and the Federal Railway Pension Act (1721 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (1722 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2737/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the new pension adjustment scheme (1723b) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2253/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to flexipension with automatic pension (1724 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2788/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on real pension adjustment instead of social policy miscarriage trick (1725 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2670/A(E) by Mrs Erwin Angerer, colleagues on Action 60 plus for the Austrian labour market (1726, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11368	We come to Agenda items 4 to 9, on which the debates are being held under one. – I welcome Mr Johannes Rauch, Federal Minister. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jörg Leichtfried is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11406	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, the 2.2 million pensioners live. The average pension for men is about EUR 1 400, of women about EUR 1 130. This means that life needs to be financed, so that rent, purchase, electricity, gas bills and, and, and, must be paid. In such a phase of inflation, as it has probably never been in our country before, these people need to be helped quickly. However, the pensioners have been left alone with this situation for a year. For a year, they have been concerned that they will no longer be able to finance life, to think about it at the end of the month: Can I still drink or buy food? That's the situation you brought them into, and it's gonna be high on the time that something changes there. However, it is also time for something to change properly, ladies and gentlemen, because this debate is already under way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did you do? Mr. Federal Minister, you have negotiated, then you have completed the negotiations unilaterally and have not negotiated any more – perhaps you should have done so – and it has come out, and that is fact, an increase of 5.8 percent. [[Abg. Loacker: There is a law, there is nothing to negotiate!]] It is 5.8 percent pension increase at 10.5% inflation. 5.80 percent versus 10.5%: That's half, and half, ladies and gentlemen, is too little for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Do you know the difference between annual and monthly inflation? You know that?]] You may also have seen that these 5.8 percent are a little too little, and then you have considered: What am I doing now? Then you once again came to the brilliant idea: Well, we have to make one-time payments. All of Austria now knows that these one-time payments are inaccurate, all of Austria knows that this does not work. How was the 150 Euro voucher? – 10 percent have exchanged it so far. And now the climate bonus: Instead of getting money on the account, people get a financial online account, sodexo vouchers, and then they're on the post for half an hour and still don't get any money because the mail went out of the money. – This is the one-time voucher system! Do you want to send the pensioners sodexo vouchers now, or what? I mean, how do you get such an idea?- Oh, my God! I wonder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The current system of one-off payments has failed. Take note of this at last! It needs continuity and stability in the help, not random single payments. I think you came up with it anyway, because you no longer trust to call it a one-time payment – now it's called direct payment. That is the knowledge! This is great, Mr Federal Minister, very well done, the learning curve has gone up extremely. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] There needs to be a different system, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. Why didn't you take a heart and develop a reasonable, fair system for such periods of inflation so that you don't have to make one-off payments at random and have clear future prospects for pensioners? That would have been it: This year, and on the basis of this year's figures, take a pension increase. You know, you're not ready to help the people in Austria. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: This is stupid!]] They refuse to do what is necessary, namely, finally bring down prices. [[Call the ÖVP: Put it down in Vienna once!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ribo.]] This helps people to buy, and it will help our industry in the end. [[Call at ÖVP:In Vienna, in Vienna, in Vienna!]] It is now faced with the fact that the gas will cost us four times as much as in Germany, and that is not funny! That also says your industry and that is what those who understand something about it say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I think it would be good for you to keep it and accept the bill you receive in the elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11531	Mr Hammer, for the interlocutory call “That’s a fool!” I’m, of course, giving you a call for order. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens:What?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: You can say nonsense!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Which hammer was that now?]] [[Call the Greens:Michael Hammer!]] – Mr Michael Hammer! But he felt like he was talking anyway. I'm sorry, yes, there's a same name. [[Call the Greens:Thank you!]] The next item is Mr Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11626	Madam President. Mr. Minister! First of all, after Mr Leichtfried's speech: Dear Beppo Music, you're missing! We would perhaps have heard a social policy speech, i.e. a debate on the subject. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is it about now? – The issue is pension increases, pension adjustments for the year 2023, and how, as the Republic of Austria, as a National Council and also the Federal Government, we can best meet our orders with increasing prices when it comes to safeguarding pensions in this difficult, very challenging time. I would like to briefly define the tasks that we actually have: First of all, we have a legal order, and this legal order means value assurance. Pensions are insurance benefits, and we are required by law to guarantee pensions. - That's the first order. The second task is to prevent poverty in the social sphere. We have an age in dignity for people in these difficult times, too. However, we also have a third task, namely an economic task – which is very often hidden when it comes to the question of pension increases. We are moving towards a fair economic crisis, and this is also about stabilising income – including those who are pensioners in Austria, and that is 2.2 million people. [[Abg. Worm: We are in the middle of the economic crisis!]] These 2.2 million people make a very important contribution to stabilising demand and the economy in the crisis. Finally, we also have the task of keeping our pension system sustainablely financial. This is also a central task, and, ladies and gentlemen, with what we are going to decide here today, with the increase in pensions, we are not only trying to comply with these orders, I believe we are also fulfilling them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the case that you can use any arbitrary figures for legal adjustment, but there is a legal regime. There is also the term 'rolling inflation' which we are probably familiar with since the collective treaty negotiations this year; this is about 12 months, and inflation is being used over this period, and according to this inflation, social benefits – after all, we will be voting on them – will be increased, but also pensions will be increased. This adjustment factor is 5.8 percent – that's valid, that's secured, that's not speculation, as the SPÖ suggests, that's clear – and by this adjustment factor, pensions are first and foremost increased. – This is the first step. The second step is: We know, of course, that the income situation and inflation are further intensifying, and precisely because of this, we have also planned this one-time payment, this direct payment from one third of the pension up to 500 euros – sanding down to 2 500 euros – for the average, for the low and medium pensions next year. Interestingly, if we add this one-time payment to the increase in pension, we come up with an average pension increase of 8.2 percent. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, between 8.2 and...!]] This corresponds roughly to inflation. Do you know what's really bothering me? – In here – Mr Leichtfried has done it again before – the one-time payments are always said this way: What's that?- Oh, my God! Don't let yourself sell for stupid!, has already been claimed in broadcasts, or also: One-time payments are horse-sattering! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately already so that the location is only too often determined by the position, for: Do you know how often the SPÖ Social Ministers have made one-time payments under the Pension System? – Completely four times: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2016. [[Abg. Worm: But the blues, the blues!]] Because Mr Wurm already exists under FPÖ Social Ministers 2001, 2002, 2003, 2003, 2004. [[Abg. Worm: Yes! Now say it!]] I can't remember that at the time, there was talk of some social-democratic parliamentarian or of any liberal member of Rosserry, of stupid sales, of Verpuffen, of anything else. [[Abg. Hörl: Are the Blue Specialist at the Ross Destruction!]] - No, I don't. You were more proud to have done that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to these measures, we are in fact also able, in this pension system, to bring into these pension increases a socially fair rate by increasing the minimum pensions, the minimum pensions, the compensation allowance to 1 110 euros – this is a plus of 7.8 percent, with the one-time payment you reach more than 10 percent. The average pension – I have already mentioned this – is 8.4 per cent, and we are entering a lid, so that the members of special pensions get a maximum of that, which is paid out on the basis of the 5.8 per cent up to the maximum contribution basis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure! This increase in pensions is a key, important measure for 2.2 million people in this country, in order to be able to cope as best as possible with inflation, inflation and this crisis. Further measures are still being decided here today, there will be further measures in the future, but this is an important, important step. Yeah, we're doing our best! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11735	Mr Peter Wurm, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11760	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, Mr Koza, the Greens lack competence not only in social policy but generally in government work. [[Abg. Belakovich: Peter, explain it to him once!]] I can also explain this briefly, and not all that is a comparison tends – or vice versa. To what you say about 2001 to 2003, around the turn of the millennium: We had an inflation rate of 1.3 percent. [[Abg. Koza: It's about the matter!]] I told you in committee that you still did not understand. We have extraordinary times. We currently have 10.5 percent monthly inflation, a trend that continues to rise and continue, and that is why this increase in pensions is not sufficient at 5.8 percent – and so much is – of course in times like these. Now you can try to talk about how the ÖVP or the Greens do it, but the reality is just another: 5.8 percent. I would also like to say one more thing: Of course, this 5.8 percent increase also costs the State, the taxpayer money. This is net in about 2.5 billion euros, which costs this increase in pensions. However, we have exceptional times and of course the pensioners, especially those with low pensions, suffer quite massively in these difficult times. I have tried – or we have tried – to make a 10 percent increase in pensions. Unfortunately, we failed. 10 percent would have adapted to the current inflation rate in some way and would have given pensioners a certain margin of time, at least once for the coming year, to make sense of their lives. This scope does not mean that the ÖVP and the Greens do not want to give the pensioners. I should like to point out once again that the average pensioner benefits more with about 100 euros gross per month. However, I can also point out the luxury pensioners with 10 000 euros and more – and there are still some 40 000 in Austria who have secured these four parties in the long term. Social democracy also benefits from this, by the way, with 4 600 euros more pension. [[Abg. Lightenness: Social democracy does not receive a pension!]] We wanted to prevent that too, and we, as a liberal, unfortunately remained alone. - Appreciate social democracy, that's your original sin! Again: You can't explain that to anyone. Luxury pensioners, including social democrats, receive an increase of 4 600 euros over the year – this will get the more! No one can explain that! And I can only ask you again: We have been ready for years to finalise this problem, and I hope that you will finally come along when it comes to real policy. You have to mention one more, namely: The famous 45-year hackler board was abolished – in times like this it is completely wrong. If people work for 45 years, they should be rewarded accordingly, because they are getting less and less. At the same time, in the last committee and here in plenary, we have made a request to create the possibility – especially in times like this – that pensioners who are in the regular pension may, of course, also earn in the pension, without red tape without red tape, without tax or social security being always disbursed accordingly. Many pensioners would like to do this because they are currently not getting through the rounds with their pension. [[Abg. Steinacker: They can do that anyway!]] On the other hand, we have a shortage of skilled workers in the care, gastronomy, otherwise where, and all four parties reject this – by the way also the NEOS, where Mr Loacker should explain why he asked for it in his speech, but then rejects the requests. What does it mean, on a voluntary basis, to allow pensioners to earn without tax burdening them? This would be an opportunity to give pensioners an additional income and, on the other hand, to alleviate the shortage of skilled workers accordingly. [[Abg. Hörl: Very g’scheit!]] – Yes, but then you have to vote! We have many successful proposals, Mr Hörl, you know that! But you have to put it into practice sometime. And if the greens don't go along: We are open to meaningful proposals at any time, Mr Hörl of the ÖVP. Finally: What you now give to pensioners – under quotation marks – is what you need to do. But, of course, they do not solve the problems that are currently there. I say it again – we have repeated it several times –: The reason why we have this problem – inflation, inflation and so on – is that (a) the Corona policy – cost of EUR 100 billion – and (b) the unscrupulous sanctions policy towards Russia; and this also includes the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11856	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann August Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11881	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This legal pension adjustment is correct, it is socially balanced and it covers the expected inflation of this year for most of the pensioners. I'd like to explain this to you: We have presented a staged system. 5.8 percent is the legal adjustment factor. When is this determined? – From July to July. For many, many years, this has been enshrined by law. And because it was just said by colleagues Wurm: Mustn't do that to the government! It's good to do that, and in recent years we've overfilled it. This Federal Government concludes higher each year for pensioners – for some of the pensioners – than the statutory adjustment factor states. [[Abg. Belakovich: No!]] But there have been years, among SPÖ Chancellors and SPÖ Social Ministers, in which this has not been the case where the increase corresponding to this value has not been given. [[Abg. Belakovich: Under ÖVP participation!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who was social spokesperson at the time? 11, 12!]] And there you have to say: Here I go and say that this is too little and not adjusted accordingly, I simply reject it. It is 4 billion euros gross which are used for statutory pension adjustment, and we are making up the expected inflation with this pension adjustment for pensioners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Secondly, I would like to mention: We cannot completely eliminate what we have already done in payments. You can prove it all: We have now launched three discharge packages. To count this for this year: For example, a minimum pensionist – who currently has 1 030 Euro grosso – will be awarded 1 948 euros in this year alone. These are two additional monthly pensions for this minimum pensionist de facto. This results in a value of more than 14.5 percent. This means that we are more than the expected inflation of this year. Another example: For a pensioner with 1 300 euros gross, it is 1 605 euros – which corresponds to 9.44 percent – or for a pension of 1,500 euros gross, it is a fee of 8.45 percent, which corresponds to the current inflation. That is to say, we have already transferred funds to this inflation, and for the coming year we will cover a value of 10.2 percent for the minimum pensioners. The minimum pension will be increased from EUR 1 030 to EUR 1 110, and the further area will be made up of 5.8 percent and a single or direct payment. I don't care what you call it, because it doesn't matter to people. It is gross for net; Money transferred at the beginning of March, and that's what it's all about. At 1 500 euros it is 450 euros, at 2 000 euros it is 500 euros that these people receive. For these pensioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is crazy to have 500 euros net. That's a lot of money for those people who need it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Then we actually secured the 5.8 percent. I would like to say one more thing: What does that mean for the coming year? Since August, the legal adjustment factor has now been taken away until July of next year. We now have an inflation of 10 percent. It is hoped that it will go down in the coming months, but a value which, in my view, is significantly higher than the 5.8 percent that took place in this year, and we as the Federal Government and as government groups are confessing this because we have also shown this here in the last two years and are doing it now. [[Abg. Worm: The base is higher!]] We'll picture that. Yeah, what else should we do? Now give the whole percentage? Give the whole percentage again next year and the direct payments? [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it is inconceivable that what you have never done in government responsibility to demand from this government now. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The pensioners can rely on this federal government, but we remain with the methods and with the adjustment factors, as they have been handled for 20 years now and as they are legally anchored. We cover the inflation values for the absolute majority of pensioners. The people of the older generation can rely on ÖVP and greens because we know that they have made a very important contribution to our state, to our prosperity and to our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e11980	Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12004	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! When it comes to the increase in pensions, I would like to start with a positive aspect. The Federal Minister did not give up the completely absurd demands of the senior representatives after 10 percent of the pension increase and with the 5.8 percent essentially held to the legal percentage, and that is good and correct. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Wöger.]] In these discussions on the increase in pensions, the boys who have to pay this are not sitting at the table. At the table are the luxury pensioners Kostelka and Korosec, who of course have slightly hopped with monthly pensions in the four and five-digit area, but the boys who need to finance all of this are not even asked. If now the increase in pension amounts to 4 billion euros, only the increase of 4 billion euros, then this is a huge sum of money that we cannot add to other budget areas; and it has also rightly been pointed out that the pensioners have received, in addition to this increase, several single payments that total more than a 15. Pension payment. [[Abg. Worm: Gross!]] You have to see all of this. If, by the Social Democrats and by the Liberties, a 10 percent increase in pensions, after a shift in the months after which the increase is calculated, I have to say: Please consider what you would do if you were in government! You wouldn't do that if you had the responsibility. I am already putting this claim to an opposition party, that at least one considers: Could I account for this if I were myself in the government? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Worm: Could I?]] We are not quite happy with the increase in the pension, because for the one-time payment that is promised, 650 million euros are taken into control and this one-time payment is of course not safe again, because as a small pensioner also someone who has worked in Switzerland for 30 years and ten years in Austria and therefore receives a small pension from Austria; and he then receives a nice one-time payment. What for? Maybe these people are well cared for. You have to say one more thing: In Austria, pensioners' incomes are generally higher than those of the active workers. That's what the OECD has calculated. So we are talking about a population group that is well cared for in our well-developed social system. There is another mistake in the law on the increase in pensions this year, namely: Contrary to the commitment that the actual retirement age should be referred to the legal person, this law provides an incentive to retire earlier, better in November or December 2022 than in January 2023, because someone who retires in December of this year receives a further 2.9% pension increase – one month after that. You have to be in retirement for only one month and already get 2.9 percent pension increase! No pension in the world can be devalued as quickly as possible. We do not have Turkey's inflation rates, we are still here in Austria. I have to draw out a quote from the Minister of Finance: “Not all that is popular is also reasonable.” This incentive for early retirement is part of this. I therefore propose an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] The pension hole will be up to 32.7 billion euros in four years from this date. You can see what a dynamic this has: from 22.7 to 32.7 billion in just four years! There you can see: We have a structural problem with expenditure. We do not have a revenue problem, nor does it concern whether the cold progression is now abolished to two thirds or entirely abolished. We have a huge expenditure problem. Swiss and Swedish work on average for four years longer than Austrians. Yes, and there are also construction workers who have heavy jobs, and they also create this cut with the heavy jobs, and this can be done by the Austrians. Someday you will have to say honestly to the people: We are pleased that we all live longer, but we have to spend part of the additional life expectancy in working life, it just doesn't work differently. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:07]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12159	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12192	Mr President. High house! Let me clarify at the beginning of this: Often complains or pretends that the Austrian pensions and the Austrian pension system are not safe – this can insecure people. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is safe, and the calculation period, which is enshrined in the law, guarantees that the pensions paid today are also secured. Perhaps you have to explain again how this calculation mechanism works. It is smart and enshrined in the law that not the inflation rate of a single month is taken out, but a whole year is considered – from last summer to summer of this year, that is, a whole year, and then this 5.8 percent. These do not reflect the current inflation rate, which is now 10 per cent, but the average of all twelve months before, and that is the price of the twelve months at 5.8 per cent. The same happens next year. That is to say, next year's calculation horizon, the current high inflation rate on the last tenth percentage point is shown precisely with this mechanism. This guarantees that the inflation we have will be paid down to a year. That's a smart mechanism. He's just, and he's gonna make sure that no one's pensions, so to speak, have a loss of income due to inflation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now we know that people with small pensions and compensation benefits are particularly affected by the inflation. That was the reason why the Federal Government already launched the aid in this year – the Klubobmann of the ÖVP has carried it out. This year's inflation has been offset by the disbursements that have taken place. The average payout was between 1 400 and 1 900 euros per pension. This ensures – especially in special times – that particularly high inflation is now paid off. In the coming year – knowing that the high inflation will only be paid by the calculation of the entire year – we will continue to prefer the payment with a special payment in March. This is also due to the fact that we know that during the winter, in the course of spring, payments will be made in pensioners' households, which make it necessary to anchor this aid. That, I think, is smart and socially balanced. This is what we have already said – that is what all governments have done before, that is to put things together and presented – to 10.2 per cent plus to those involved:for the compensation allowance, to 8.2 per cent plus for the small and medium-sized pensions and then, starting at 2 360 euro pension, there is just the 5.8 per cent. This is socially balanced, which is budgetaryly sustainable, and in principle this is also a good pension policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why Mr Loacker is not quite wrong when he advises budgetary sustainability: This is due to the fact that we have a demographic development which is such that in 2015 we had the situation that in about four employees a pensioner, a pensioner, received a pensioner; in 2040, two workers will finance a pensioner, a pensioner. That is to say, the proportion of over 65-year-olds is increasing significantly, and it is also the task to keep in mind, in addition to social justice, budgetary sustainability, because otherwise we will take up scope for living social policies that we will need over the next ten or 20 years. That's why I can argue well and gladly: This increase in pensions is socially balanced and also budgetaryly sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12258	Mrs Bedrana Ribo. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12284	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators:in the gallery and in front of the screens! Last week in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” I read a comment on the pension increases with a very interesting thought game: ‘One imagines: A SPÖ-led government would have significantly improved the smallest pensions several times in recent years." This SPÖ government would have paid 600 euros to these people in addition to the other aid against the price. – It continues: Then this SPÖ government would have also announced the “pension increase for 2023”, which is socially staggered and “which for minimum pensioners means a plus worth more than 10 percent. Every bet: The jubilation would have been great.” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But reality is another: The SPÖ does not rejoice, it does not come with outrageous indignation at all. Why? – It assumes that we would look away while people with low pensions, minimum pensioners:innen, impoverish: What we're doing isn't enough, then these instant payments, then the 5.8 percent and, and. What remains, though, if we abandon this outrage and really look at the facts? – Then we see that we Greens with our coalition partner raised the compensation allowance to EUR 1 000 for the first time in 2020. [[Congratulations and congratulation with the Greens as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We see that the compensation allowance has also been significantly increased this year. With direct payments, we talk about a plus of 10.2 percent. Pensioner: women who receive a compensation allowance are most affected by poverty, we know. We Greens don't look away, neither does the government look away Especially in difficult times – and these are difficult times at the moment – the pensioners can rely on us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sieber.]] A stepped pension increase, a sustainable pension increase: We're talking about 4.1 billion euros. On the question of how high the pension is annually, i.e. the increase in the pension – that is what my previous speakers have already said – it is not that the government calculates this together according to the desire and mood. There is a law that requires that the pension increase be adjusted to inflation, and that is transparent, and that is also good. Also the calculation period is not somehow compiled, but it is always from August of the previous year to July of this year; and the increase this year: 5.8 percent – everything clearly comprehensible. Of course, what is different this year – and that is true, it is – is that inflation has been very high in recent months. That's exactly where we take immediate measures, with the immediate payments. They help quickly and goal-orientedly – Mr. Leichtfried is unfortunately not here now, but he has asked for that right here in front of me today: targeted and quick help – and the SPÖ knows that too. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinacker.]] The SPÖ, which my colleague has already said, has, just as the FPÖ has, in the past, resorted to one-time payments in the case of pension increases. Everyone knows that, but apparently forgetfulness in populism is also very helpful. It's always to be heard: It needs structural, longer-term, sustainable changes! – Yes, it needs it, we know that too, but quite honestly: How long did a SPÖ have time to bring about these structural changes? – Very, very long. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can conclude by saying: Fortunately, at the end of the day there is no indignation, nor does it count the great cry. For the pensioner:innen counts what is coming to the account, and we show that we are left on us. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's exactly the problem!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I tabled an amendment tabled by Members August Wöginger, Markus Koza, and colleagues to the draft law in the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs 1721 of the Supplements on the proposal for a Council Directive 2810/A relating to pension adjustment law 2023 (TOP 4). The application was distributed. In short, for reasons: "The proposed amendments are intended to eliminate or eliminate editorial accidents. editorial clarifications are made.” Please accept. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[14:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12520	The amendment is properly tabled and is also under negotiation. Mrs Ribo, we agreed in the presidency that we do not point out if other mandates are missing at the meeting, and I ask that they continue to do so. - Thank you. I call Mr Dietmar Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12550	Mr President. Minister! There are many numbers that wander around the room, but I really want to mention one: At the end of 2021 we have 2 466 799 pensioners here in Austria – 2 466 799 pensioners who in their working life have made sure that we now have the wealth we have in their working life to ensure that there are these health facilities in Austria that have made sure that there are these educational institutions that have made sure that there is the infrastructure in Austria that has just made sure that we have this prosperity. [[Abg. Loacker: Go to bed and breakfast on average with 31 years of contribution!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Disoski: Pensions!]] What is our commitment, ladies and gentlemen? – Now we have to make sure that in their third period of life they are given dignity again in life, that they can afford life, that they don’t have to worry about whether they have enough to eat, whether they can afford food, that they don’t have to worry about whether they can heat in winter, whether they can afford heating, and that they don’t have to worry about whether they have enough electricity for the light, whether they have enough electricity to cook. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is our obligation to ensure that they really can live in dignity, and this requires an increase in pensions adapted to the inflation rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what does the increase in pensions for 2023 look like in reality? – There are always gross figures here when talking about pensions: 2 000, 2 500 euros gross! – I have to look at it: What really comes out net for the pensioners, for the pensioners? Let's see: What will be the result of a compensatory allowance, a compensatory allowance beneficiary? He stays in the week due to the increase – if you calculate this 10.05 percent – 24.50 euros. 24,50 euros remain alive for him in the week. Now it's going to be exciting: When I make a pension of EUR 1 100, he only survives EUR 21 per week, and if I make a pension of EUR 1 667, he will only stay alive for 18 euros. That is, the higher the pension, the less the increase will be, the less he remains alive. If a 2 000 euros gross pension, then he remains net 15.50 euros. If I look at the weekly purchase, which is the same for everyone, I know: If I now make these 18 euros or 15.50 euros, I don't care, the price will eat me away three times. Today I read in the paper, the egg producers say that the price for an egg now has to be increased by 3 to 5 cents. The price of coffee has been increased, bakers say they have to increase prices, milk becomes more expensive, cheese also – prices for all basic foods are massively increased. I'm not talking about the increases in rent, electricity and gas. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Especially in Vienna, yes!]] I'm just talking about food. With the help of these pensioners, pensioners cannot even afford the price increases in the food again! That's supposed to make you think. It is always said here that at earlier times there would have been one-off payments. That's where I have to look: What did inflation look like when there were one-off payments? That's where we were at 1 percent to a maximum of 2 percent. Today there has been an increase of 1.8 per cent in pensions and inflation is now 10.5 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! There, too, the pensioner has to see how he can afford to live. It's almost impossible for him to make it at this time. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] That is why I can only say one thing, ladies and gentlemen, also about the numbers that are constantly mentioned: Of these 4 billion euros, which cost the increase in pensions, 2 billion euros go back to the Minister of Finance, by paying taxes and by the increased purchasing power. [[Abg. Loacker: Over half of all pensions are tax-free because so small!]] That's when he recovers half of what he pays. But what really shocked me in the last committee – and this is my final sentence – was the statement by Mr Sozialminister, who said: The one-time payment is an advance on 2024. – Yes, what does that mean? Is this already a threat to pensioners: Friends, now let's give you a one-time payment, but 2024 I'll take all of this away from you again!? – If this is the style of the government, you can only say as a pensioner and pensioner in Austria: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12647	Mrs Bettina Zopf. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12676	Mr President. Estimated Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear spectators at home and at the gallery – especially I would like Mayor Dipl.-Ing. Martin Pelzer from my home village welcome you very warmly! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and Deputies Disoski and Lukas Hammer.]] Our pensioners have already done their work. They have worked for a lifetime and depended on us as a society after that to care for them. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] That's the promise of our generation contract. People trust in that, and we do not abandon it. It is important that we also make sure in the pension system that the price is also reliably offset in a crisis such as today, so that we can continue to allow our retired parents and grandparents the evening of life they have worked on for many years. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] 5.8 percent this year is the set price. This is the percentage calculated from July 2022 to June 2023. This is also our legal basis for the percentage increase in the pension. All pensioners get it. In addition, we know that this year, especially in the second half of the year, the inflation has increased – to currently forecast 8.2 percent. [[Abg. Belakovich: 10.5 percent we already have!]] We also responded. [[Abg. Worm: Is that an old background?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Is that still from the previous year?]] It is important to us to act socially securely, so we are above all increasing the smaller pensions. Compensating persons are those who have often not done paid or poorly paid work in their lives with part-time and karenz, farmers of small and medium-sized farms and retired commercials of small businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You get 10.2 percent increase. That's about 80 euros a month, that's about 1 120 euros a year, you can say a 15. Retirement pension. [[Abg. Worm: Can you!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't have to say it!]] Average pensions up to EUR 1 700 receive 8.2 percent, i.e. forecast inflation. We catch the price for those who have little to do with it. We will do that again next year, if the next rate of inflation is fixed, because we are left. Mr Loacker said it quite correctly to the last Committee: In the opposition too, one should only demand things that one would also implement in the government. [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] Everything else is populist and unscrupulous. As a trade unionist I can make high demands, but as a national councillor I have responsibility for everyone and cannot act populistly. Dear SPÖ, you could have implemented the abolition of cold progression a long time ago, but you have always called for it. [[Abg. Seemayer: This has not gone with you!]] We've implemented it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So often I hear that in politics we should listen to the opposition's requests and work together. Even there I can only say, for example, the abolition of cold progression: We'll do it! We have implemented your demands! – We are accustomed to criticism and this is also important, it only depends on how to criticize. We have to act and act on a sustainable basis. The longer-term inflation is the same as in percentage terms. That's fair and fair. We have created once-and-a-half payments for the additional price, because we cannot estimate how long-term these developments are. That is why it would be irresponsible if we also committed this increase by law. This would not be sustainable or responsible to our next generations. All these measures we create without strike, without demonstrations, but just as I imagine this as a Christian-social trade unionist and district farmer: with constructive negotiations and a look at the entire population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] Finally, I can only say one thing: We do what we were elected to do: We act in your interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12830	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices! Dear pensioners! We are negotiating today the increase in pensions and it has already been said a lot. There is a 5.8 percent de facto increase, which is the average value, which has already been explained a hundred times today – so far, so little good. There are then one-off payments and it is tried to do with any tricks and say: Well, if you calculate that, then the pension increase is so big anyway. If you listened to my previous speaker, she said: We'll compensate for the cost. – So this has nothing to do with a cost-effective balance, which is a pure inflation bill. We, which we sit in here, but all know, and this is also known by the spectators, that pensioners have a completely different shopping cart. Therefore, there was earlier also the pensioner price index – it was then abolished at some point – which of course is completely different. There inflation is much higher than 10 percent, much higher than 10.5%. The previous speaker spoke of any prognosis. To do this, I have to say: My colleague, Mr Zopf, obviously took the speech from the previous year. Otherwise, it cannot be explained how it landed at some 8 percent. – These are the facts. The fact is – and you have to look at that once, when you look at the whole thing –: We have especially included in the area of our pensioners those who were still born in war, those who were born after the war, those who lived in poverty, who have been dealing with those who have built this country and led to a prosperity that this German government has been fighting against the wall since 2020. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has begun with their completely pointless and innocuous corona measures, and the money has flown out while they have made some senseless lockdowns. Sweden has shown that it would have gone without lockdowns. We have already mentioned this in 2020. If you look at the result where there is more dead through Corona, in Austria or Sweden, you can see it is Austria. So you did all the bad things you could do. These lockdowns were pointless from the beginning, but you've gone through them until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, and that's also one of the reasons why we're economically hit. You want the wide crowd to do this. This has to be done by pensioners, the families have to do it, the entrepreneurs have to do it, because this federal government has shot out everything that was available in money, and therefore no more reserves are available. Now there is an inflation that is so dynamic, Minister of State! You cannot compare this with pension increases of ten years ago or 20 years ago when we had inflation which was relatively stable. Inflation is so dynamic that today you cannot say what will be in three months. You can't say that either. Economic researchers have to correct themselves every few weeks because they cannot say it because we are living in an incredibly difficult time. You can't send back a group of people and say: Well, it's enough for the pensioners now, because that's what we have to do by law, and we don't do more because there are one-time payments anyway! So, and now something about one-off payments, because the colleagues, especially from the EIA and also from the Greens, are constantly saying that there are the pensioners, I do not know, thousands of euros. . Stay, ladies and gentlemen, do not do anything at all, but they have a little bit more to be able to dispel these increased prices. The question will only be whether it will be enough. And I'm predicting you today: It won't be enough next spring when the next electricity repayments come. There we will experience the next dramas and the next disasters. These disasters are homemade because this Federal Government simply does not look forward because it is bubbling instead. Don't look forward and throw money out the window when it came to the Cofag. There was no problem with 11 billion euros. Now it's going to be discussed. 4 billion euros cost these pension increases. Half of this goes back through consumption, because the lower the pension of pensioners, the more it goes into consumption – this will come back anyway. So let's stop telling people some shame here! I believe that the pensioners in our country deserved to get the fair share of the cake and not to be reduced to poverty – the second time in series, because they had already received a very low increase at 1.8 percent last year, as inflation was still stable before that. [[Abg. Gödl: 3 percent!]] What's happening here is expropriation. This leads to an impoverishment of the older generation – and that is really a shame in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12915	Mrs Carina Reiter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e12939	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and at the gallery! In particular, I would like to mention the Federal Student Office, which is here today with the Federal School spokesperson Flora Schmudermayer. – I’m glad you’re in the plenary room for this exciting debate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Today we are talking about pensions, more specifically about pension adjustments 2023. Why do I now stand out here as a youth speaker of my Group, the People's Party? – Pensions are a topic of all generations. The elderly have worked hard – at the time in often not so well paid jobs – and paid their contributions to the social and pension system. Likewise, we boys today make our contribution and pay in this pot. We should and must be a sustainable social and pension system. Age insurance is important now and also in the future, in the sense of a generation justice. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What we will decide today is a very balanced solution. We especially support people with small and medium-sized pensions, and yet we do not throw generation justice all over the board. Sustainability is not just a keyword, sustainability is a principle of action – and sustainability means taking into account subsequent generations. So it's always about seeing the whole thing, thinking about the future without forgetting the achievements of the past. But if, for example, I look at the SPÖ's requests and recall some of the speeches we have heard today, then I have to say that sustainability is more than just trace elements. In general, they are always very happy to take out individual sub-areas and focus on them without really looking at the whole thing – and that's really bad, because it's not social. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] Dear SPÖ, I would like to quote colleagues Stöger – or in the case: for me. He said: ‘Faming others can be better’. – I can say, however, that: As you can see, you have developed quite further in your group in recent years and learned a lot about this. [[Abg. Prince: Red DNA!]] A little more materiality on claims would be required, however, according to the signs of time. It is about our future, about stability, about cohesion and about a balanced policy. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As a People's Party, we stand for this socially just and also secure pension adjustment: Support for those who need it, appreciation for those who have worked hard for their lives, but in the sense of a generation justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13000	Magnificence comes to the fore. Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13024	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! If we go to our house mind: How would an ideal pension system look like? – You think you pay into the system in the working life and then, if you are in retirement, you get out of what you paid – quite simplifiedly – that one more and the other a little less. But what is the status quo in Austria? . We all know that we have this so-called charging procedure, the Minister has already mentioned it today. In this, the people currently working pay the pensions of those who are now in retirement. But we all know that's not going on anymore. Why? – Because of the often quoted age pyramid: fewer working people, but more and more pensioners. So you could say that pyramid is on the head. The students learn this in the third, fourth class in geography and economics, but they have apparently still not understood it. Just as you design our pension system or just don't shape it, you drive it against the wall. And with all due respect: If I say that you are against the wall, I do not mean for the Members who have perhaps been sitting here in the high house for 20 years, but for the young people for whom it is driven against the wall, not a little bit, but at 300 km/h, frontal. There is simply no voice for young people in this government. But if the Secretary of State for Youth, which is not present at this debate today, although otherwise she has often spoken about it as being called the voice of the boys, I would like to say: That's quite a joke. [[Call the ÖVP:No, no, no!]] You can't always criticize everything and say loud and loud that our pension system is in the end, but then carry everything that this government does. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Secretary of State for Youth is not a voice of the boys, on the contrary, she is part of the problem. Why are we driving against the wall? – Because the contribution payments of the working people at Weitem are no longer sufficient and we now have to pay almost 25 billion euros each year from the general budget of taxpayers so that pensioners can receive a pension. By the way, pensioners cannot do anything about it. Many of them also want us to change the pension system because they want it to be safe for their children and their grandchildren. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It takes 25 billion euros every year just to stop a hole. This is twice as high as the educational budget, seven times the budget for climate change and environmental protection. It scares where you set your priorities. So what do we have to do? – We would have to introduce a pension automatic system that is set in motion when it requires demographic development: If life expectancy increases slowly, the retirement age also increases. All well-known experts demand that. I would like to conclude with a saying that you may know, going to what makes good politicians: Good politicians do not make the popular, but they do the right thing; and after that they try to make the right thing popular. – Thinking Please take a look at that!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13072	Magnificence comes to the fore. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13096	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But above all: Dear Seniors! Dear pensioners! We do not do the popular – this is addressed to my previous speakers – but we do what is important and right. We are there for the older generation, which has built this country for prosperity and which has earned it more than it deserves. [[Abg. Loacker: Unfortunately, the build-up generation has already died!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you are so bad at the opposition of this pension package – or are trying to speak badly – I would like to say: The facts speak for themselves. It is a very balanced package, which is also financially feasible. Yes, it is 4.1 billion euros for the older generation, who are moving towards the increase in pensions – but also towards poverty reduction – and this is particularly important especially in this difficult time – but it is generation-friendly, because we older ones – and I would like to stress this once again – also take responsibility, Mr. Colleague, and also want our grandchildren and great-grandchildren to do well. I do not need to go into all the details now – Mr Zopf has done this in great detail – the fact is, and this is particularly important that the real price for low and medium-sized pensions is covered. That's what matters. That's crucial. I'm just saying it a little bit: Some 200 000 pensions are raised by around 10.2 percent. 1.2 million pensioners receive about 8.2 percent more, and this is the middle class. To stress this is also important to me that we also look at the middle class in particular. – And yes, Mrs Belakovich, of course, we need to look again in spring at how energy prices continue to develop – as the senior representatives will certainly come to speak again – because no one is allowed to freeze, no question. [[Abg. Belakovich: Just like last year!]] I would also like to refer to Amendment No 2670/A(E). This is about the work of people who are already in retirement who have reached the retirement age. I can understand a lot of things, the request is only in this form not ready for decision. It has to be negotiated, but I think it is very important that we make an offer to the older generation, to the pensioners, because many want to continue to work, they see this as enrichment, many also have to work on it because they want to earn something – no question – one day, two days, little, no matter what. [[Abg. Belakovich: Must be!]] I think that we should really make an offer – this has been a concern for me for a very long time – especially as regards the pension contributions you pay twice, or there can also be tax incentives, however. In any case, performance should pay off. We need the seniors, they do important things in our society, in our families, in the economy, in volunteer work, in many areas. We need them, they do important things, but they can also rely on this government. We do not abandon the seniors, we do not only prove this in the context of this pension adjustment, but we have also demonstrated this with additional measures in recent times, for example with the valorization of social benefits, with the large care package, with the financing of hospice work, and I could mention a few more. [[Abg. Belakovich: But you reject the request!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13174	Magnificence comes to the fore. Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13199	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Since the Federal Government announced the adaptation of pensions, I have received extremely many news from pensioners and pensioners. The people in Austria are desperate when they think of the coming winter. They do not know how to cope with the rising costs. Inflation adjustment of the pensions of 5.8 percent is only a drop on the hot stone in the price we are currently experiencing. The Federal Government has strongly announced the pension adjustment by up to 10.2 percent and has thus drawn all the registers to beautify and applied all the tricks, because: The direct payments – and it doesn't matter if they are called direct or single payments – are not a sustainable increase in pensions. This falls away again with the increase in the pension system for 2024. The payout period is also very late in March. People are already lacking the money to cover their daily costs, and pensioners, in particular in rural areas, are already forced to restrict their social contacts because they simply can no longer afford the fuel costs. The situation, however, is much more dramatic for pensioners with disabilities in particular. Not only does the cost of energy or heating increase extremely, the cost of treatments, therapies and drug costs continue to rise. These are vital goods, which become less and less manageable for people, but which are necessary. While people who receive a compensation allowance in addition to their pension may be happy to receive EUR 1 295 with January 2023, they remain below the poverty limit of EUR 1 415. Already in 2021 about a quarter of a million pensioners in Austria were affected by poverty. With the increasing consumption of food, rent, heating and fuel costs, this figure will look much worse for the coming year. That's why: Prices down, cover on it, because we owe it to the people who have built our social state and our state and now enjoy their well-deserved pension, that they can continue to live on their pension adjustment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13238	The next speaker is Mr Rainer Wimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13262	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Well, the pensioners have the biggest loss of real pension this year. You can understand what you want, but if you, Markus Koza, as an old trade unionist, take this decision, you're going to run cold over the bumple, I think. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The pensioners will be outside this evening, ladies and gentlemen, and you have the responsibility to do so. What is now available for decision is the largest mogel pack. I'm not surprised that the pensioners are going up to the barricades. It's always the way we've experienced it in recent years and months: A great tamtam will be made, a press conference will be convened, and then it will be self-evident that everything is vain, but in reality it will be lied there and the untruth will be said. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: And you'll be fine!]] – If you shout in when you talk to me, get up, because you lie in your bank all the time! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: I'm not going to save with you!]] - That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the bird shot down August Wöinger when he meant that there would be two extra pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is lying and cheating, and it is unreasonable to say this, ladies and gentlemen, so to speak. [[strong contradiction with the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Lying is not at all! You can question something, but it's not lying!]] What does reality actually look like? – We have an inflation rate of 10.5 percent, the people and the pensioners: women will be pushed to the wall. [[Abg. Loacker:... knows the difference between monthly and annual inflation!]] The minimum pension is increased by 7.8 percent, and then sometime there is a one-time payment. All the others then get 5.8 percent and again sometime a one-time payment, and we know very well – this has already been discussed a hundred times today –: Single payments are not sustainable. The basis is missing for the next year, and next year the pensioners will lose enormously again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black.]] This is the responsibility you do not perceive, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. What does that actually mean when you break down a little bit? – The minimum pensioners get 80 euros per month, that's 2.60 euros per day – that's a Semmerl and a yogurt, just so we know what we're actually talking about. And the 80 euros in January are no longer worth 80 euros, but probably only more than 70 euros, because inflation does not stand. Then again on these direct or one-off payments: 1. March – I wondered: ==References====External links== March? How do you get this idea? At that time, the heaters are turned down a little bit, because the winter is over. It is likely that this has to do with elections. In other words, the pensioners are taken as a fee, because it could be that it would be possible that then – Lower Austria perhaps no longer, because they have already chosen – Salzburg chose. Ladies and gentlemen, this federal government has never meant it so well with the pensioners. You have introduced the pension payments. People who have worked 45, 46, 47 years are abandoned by this, which is taken money up to 5 000 euros a year! Secondly, They have shortened the first pension increase because it is now aliquotated. I'll tell you: They constantly humble the pensioners and pensioners and you will most likely get the invoice presented during the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13382	Ladies and gentlemen, for the accusation of the lie, I have, as is generally known, a call for order. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steinacker.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 4 to 14 and continue to complete the agenda. p14.50.39 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1663, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Public Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Studienförderungsgesetz 1992 (Study Funding Act 1992), the Family Time Bonus Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, and the Income Tax Act 1988 (Turfungssabstungspaket III) (1678 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the School Aid Act 1983 (1679, e.g.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2738/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on no discrimination: Tax exemption and inadequacy of the extraordinary single payment also for local and local staff (1680 d.a.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2673/A(E) by Mrs Erwin Angerer, Members of the Committee on Cost-Economics, on discharge for Austria (1681 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13467	We now come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13497	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I have allowed myself to take another look at the government programme 2020 to 2024 and to take up the chapter on the fight against poverty. I can quote from it a sentence that reads: “Austria is characterised by a social system that people have been able to rely on in the past”. – Yes, I am proud to say that here as a Social Democratic: In the past, people could rely on this social system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I can't understand and understand is: If we stand out here and criticize and make sharp speeches, then it does not fit. When the representatives of the ÖVP come out and talk about the past, they always feel that they have never been there. And when the Greens come out and talk about the past, they say: You Social Democrats have had a single government, you would have done it! – Do you have any idea of the Greens, what compromises mean in a coalition? [[Lively cheerfulness and yes-noise with the greens.]] Yes, you greens have got a few broilers, exactly, but you have not enforced yourselves in many, many areas! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore: Yes, a coalition is also in place to make compromises, not a question, but let us look at the issues we are now dealing with. I believe that the Committee is the Committee, which is the most frequently held; the Committee on Health is also very often meeting. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we are dealing with a lot of issues where we as Social Democrats feel, that is, long before the war began in Ukraine, at the beginning of the pandemic that we could fall into a poverty trap. Not we here in the high house – this also shows the abolition of the cold progression that we are not affected here, very many people outside but have too little of the abolition of this cold progression. You must also take note of that. If we decide today on the valorization of social and family benefits – here we are, that's not a question – then I don't think we even pointed out that this is relatively late and that, if it works from next year on, it is quite difficult for many people who have little, because they have a winter ahead of them now, of which they cannot say for sure how they will come through this winter. [[Abg. Steinacker: “Relatively very late” is what?]] You in your warm homes, in the warm apartments, in the second dwellings you may have, of course, cannot imagine that. Single parents, however, have already had major problems at school, and if the student allowance is increased afterwards, it is good, but it is also too late. I think you have to take note of that too. That is, this social crisis, in which we are already in the middle of it, will worsen even further by a cold winter. Every fourth child in this country is now affected by poverty, and nothing has happened in terms of separations, divorces, in terms of maintenance guarantee. Nothing has happened that social benefits have been increased in time. Nothing has happened that the single payment – that will be the next point – will not count on social benefits. All these things have actually been missed by the Federal Government, and if as a coalition you want to sell this to us as a gain for the people, then those who watch today will not only be taught a better one, but will no longer trust you in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13554	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13578	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! And above all: Dear Seers and Seers! Perhaps you have already heard of the so-called valorization of family and social benefits. You haven't heard from my predecessor now, or the SPÖ should have praised us. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes! Yes! Yes!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The valorization of social and family benefits doesn't sound so sexy right now, perhaps you can't imagine something like it. But now I'm trying to explain why this is really great for everyone and everyone of you. Heating, electricity, living, food – we all notice that prices are rising. We'll notice that at the latest when we're shopping. What does that mean? – The increase in prices inevitably leads to a decrease in purchasing power, and that is the inflation or the price of which we now hear daily. However, inflation is not a new phenomenon, but prices are rising year after year, but at present they have risen as much as they have long been. I believe that only the least here in the hall or at home in front of the screens can recall such high inflation rates as we have at present. We currently have them because of the consequences of the brutal war of attack. [[Abg. Belakovich: We don't have it! That's wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] What do I want to go out on? – Prices for daily shopping – school notes, clothes, diapers – rose before 2022. However, family and social benefits such as sickness benefit, study allowance, child allowance, family allowance and so on have remained unchanged. That means, on the one hand, everything gets more expensive, and on the other hand, you don't get any more money from the state. - So, we see, we have a problem there. Social and family benefits have been slightly increased every few years, depending on the political weather situation. As an example, consider the family allowance: This was last raised in 2018, before 2014 and before 2008. So, depending on the government's opinion, it was raised. The government parties beat each other on their shoulders and that's it. What happened? – Inflation has, however, repeatedly weakened the increase in these benefits and the game has almost started from the front. So, what did we do? We have implemented something that NGOs and organisations have called for for for decades. We have implemented something that has been promised for decades and has never been implemented! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr von der SPÖ! Political decisions, yes, are usually a political compromise, and yet we have managed to adapt social and family benefits to inflation for the first time and permanently. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That means: If prices rise, then family and social benefits, such as family allowances, family allowances, family allowances, child allowances, or the amount of children's allowance, are also increased. The people in Austria are finally getting security and we are making the social state crisis-proof in the long term. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Reluctant applause with the Greens – only for the protocol!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not mad or overly euphoric when it comes to political success, but quite honestly and without exaggerating: Today we decide on a social policy milestone, and this decision will benefit many families in the next many, many years permanently and directly. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the Greens]] That's why I'm saying: Today is a very good day for all families in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13689	Mr Erwin Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13713	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have also tabled a request to this section on which it is expensive to avoid the costing or the fight against inflation, but it has been rejected by the ÖVP in the Committee. The ÖVP, I read, has “any understanding of the FPÖ application” and “speak of ‘partly bizarre claims’.” Now let us look at these bizarre demands that we have made – this is about the discharge of the Austrians – once on: Point one of these bizarre demands: a “massive tax reduction on petrol and diesel” – terrible! –; then: “Elevation of the Pendler Pauschale” – unimaginable, how can one only demand such a thing? –; “Achieving the [...] CO2 issue” – today the Minister of Finance has said that in a crisis and in a phase of inflation, it cannot be created new burdens, but the ÖVP has nevertheless introduced the CO2 tax, and the ÖVP Klubobmann in Carinthia – thanks to Gabriel for reminding me – has called it a weakness in an advertisement –; the “halbation [...] of VAT on gas and electricity” – shurry, how can one demand such a thing? –; the demand for a “heat-cost grant for those in need” – completely scurry, so how can a heating-cost grant be increased if there are needy people in Austria? –; the “inflation adjustment” in the “pensions, unemployment benefit and family allowance and care allowance” – a succinct claim, although Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger has today announced great out here, how great everything is and how pensions have now been increased and what is being done – the basic food: [[Abg. Obernoster: Bullshit...!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Let's go!]] “Principle of VAT” on basic foods and “fixing of a price cap” on basic foods, because people can no longer afford to live in their country – completely scrutiny! –; “Employee increases” – how do you expect a wage increase for workers? –; a “significant reduction in additional wage costs” – terrible, bizarre, completely scurry! –; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] “End of the horrendous and extremely expensive Corona policy” – you have given up on your own, this bizarre demand –; [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Yes, yes!]] “Remove all sanctions against Russia” – there may be a shared opinion, but it is not scurry – and in the EU it is against further debt takeover. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Maintaining Neutrality!]] – These are the twelve points that we have called for and which the ÖVP calls to be scurry. So I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Skurril is only more you are, and as a former economic party, you are being drawn from the green fundis at the Nosenring by parliament. That's ÖVP policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13796	The next speaker is Mr Norbert Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13820	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! At this item on the agenda, we are talking about the cost recovery package III, the valorization of family and social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, we politicians tend to be superlative if we decide something, and historically perhaps one of these superlatives. An outsider, the chairman of one of the largest family associations in this country, has said to me: Norbert, you'll relieve the families at a pace that soon we don't know what to demand. [[Abg. Worm:... don't know how much money...!]] [[Abg. Erasim: Are you narrative! You're silly!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can do with fug and right – with fug and right! – claim: What we decide here is historical! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Erasim.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, is not just talking, it is implementing! Here in Parliament too, we were not exactly inactive as far as this call for valorization is concerned. I have failed to identify and bring together all the requests for this valorization over the last ten years. Mountains of paper were produced. But this government is acting and implementing. Valorisation of the following family and social benefits will enter into force: In addition to the family allowance, the childcare allowance and the study allowance, the additional allowance, the amount of the allowance for children, the start-up allowance, the support for the paternal month, the rehabilitation allowance, the reintegration allowance and also the re-training allowance are now adjusted annually to inflation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, relieves people. The above benefits are expected to rise by 5.8 percent in the coming year. And, ladies and gentlemen, for the sickness benefit, which is also to be valorised, an option will be created, because of course, these adaptation possibilities must be decided upon by the social security schemes responsible for this. But that's not all. School aid and home and travel costs will be valorised in the future and will be increased by 12 percent by September 2022. In other words, the basic amount for the school allowance has already increased from EUR 1 356 to EUR 1 520 and for home aid from EUR 1 656 to EUR 1 856. Ladies and gentlemen, even though we often have different opinions on solutions, I am pleased that this discharge package will be adopted on a broad basis. The package, however, shows above all one thing: This government is responsible for tomorrow. We're not just talking, we're easing and implementing.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13894	I can welcome Mrs. Federal Minister MMag.a Dr. Susanne Raabherzlich and ask Mag. Gerhard Loacker to the speaker's desk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e13919	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Yes, social benefits are to be adapted to inflation. This is okay from the point of view of access, but you have to look at this law, what it really is about in concrete terms, because it does not only include social benefits such as the study aid in which it understands logically and by itself, but also, for example, the rehabilitation allowance, which is now to be evaluated annually. Why is that a problem? – Rehabilitation allowance is what used to be the disability pension for under 50 years old. The introduction of the rehabilitation allowance alone meant an improvement because the rehabilitation allowance leads to a higher pension, which was not the case before 50 years of disability pension, because there was a low pension. So at the time we introduced this improvement under Rudi Huntstorfer – rehabilitation in the narrower sense takes place in the rarest cases, i.e. in negligible numbers, we have made these people better. But now to set an incentive and upgrade this rehabilitation fee once more annually to get an even higher pension for actually going to an early pension before 50 is a wrong incentive, and it should not be incorporated into a law. In the same way, if someone from the AMS receives a training and not only receives training for it, but also a supplement to unemployment benefit on this training: To valorize this, for getting better, is also a misappropriation. Of course, you also have to say quite clearly: If family benefits are increased, it is good and right, but there are also server servants who would not have needed it but also get it, and there we are again at the casting pot. And whoever you have forgotten again are the people who work and who, with the strength of their work of this social system, make it possible to do so at all, for example, the limits of the remuneration for the income-dependent childcare allowance are not valorized. It is about the fact that those who work also have something of their performance, and to ensure that, I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Appreciated audiences, we work here with a rules of procedure from the year and still have to read about such things in the age of electronic communications. If you're fading that – I'm fading it too. I'm sorry you have to listen to this. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[15:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14079	The amendment has been properly tabled in this sense and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Johannes Rauch, Federal Minister, has now made a statement on the matter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14106	Mr President. High house! Before I come to talk about the valorization of social benefits, I have to say something about these one-off payments that have often been quoted today, about the effects they generate, because sometimes the impression has been given that the money is burned out, the money that does not work, it is too late – I do not know what has come. We have done so on the basis of examples, and that is very concrete as to what the calculation of wages means. A single parent with two children – and since you will now agree to me, this one is particularly affected by the price of money –, partly employed, a gross salary of 1 180 euros or net about 1 000 euros, is paid directly by the German Government’s so much-as-needed discharge packages. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would very much ask you not to pretend that this is not very, very much money for this woman, this single parent. This is because it can be used for increased expenditure, for the payment of invoices. This is specifically created emergency aid, now, has arrived at the account. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Second example: A pensioner with an average pension benefits from the redundancies of EUR 1 338. There is also the following: This is effective emergency aid that now works. I really ask that these payments made by the Federal Government be seen as what they are: Aid in very special situations of life, aid in crisis situations, which are now causing an effect because it is necessary. Next point: Valorisation of social benefits. It has been said that this is a milestone. I can only confirm this because many have already tried and demanded it. If, now, family allowance, child allowance, child care allowance, family time bonus, study allowance et cetera, et cetera are automatically adjusted to the price, this will in fact ensure the basis of these aids, as they have become less valuable by inflation until now. That is to say, that is to say, a concrete guarantee of aid payments, of social benefits, which – yes, that is true – constitute a good part of our social state, and that is – because it has been addressed – the safeguarding of the Austrian social state model. The social state is thus safeguarded in the long term, because these benefits are constantly being valorised. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What I found interesting was a dialogue that took place today in the course of the debate, I think between August Wöginger and Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who had been a minister himself in the past, namely, with regard to the valorization of social benefits, which took place about as follows: There were your calls: [[towards Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] “Too late!”, “Too late!” if I have it right in my head, then in the opposite speech was asked: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, exactly!]] How long have you been in charge as a minister? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But not there!]] And your answer was: Yeah, but who was the coalition partner? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] And there I can tell you: the same as today, the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The difference between then and today is that we have about half of the mandates you had at the time, and we have implemented it, with half of the mandates twice as much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14205	Mag. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14230	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Sozialminister has already mentioned it, today is indeed a good day for the social state and, above all, a very good day for all those who depend on him. Today, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again making our social security systems more poor, and today something is decided by what social associations, what ecclesial organizations, what trade unions have been demanding for decades: Today we decide on the valorization, the annual increase in social and Family benefits beyond the inflation rate, which is not unique, but lasting for the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this decision is not only long overdue, but I believe that it is at the right time at the very time when it is expensive. Just so you know what it's really about: Under the previous item on the agenda, we have increased pensions. For this there is a legal requirement: that we should increase them with the adjustment factor mentioned above, that they should not lose purchasing power. The increase in the pension will also increase the so-called compensation allowance. This is something like the minimum budget. The compensation allowance, at this minimum pension, is based on minimum insurance, social assistance. This means that even minimum security and social assistance are increasing automatically, and lastly – since 2020, on the basis of a 2019 decision – the care allowance is also evaluated annually, increased annually by inflation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What was missing, however, were numerous family and social benefits, which are essential elements of income – I am thinking of the family allowance, I am thinking of the amount of children's contributions – which are partly also incomes, namely the rehabilitation allowance mentioned by Mr Loacker, the redeployment allowance or the tuition allowance; all social transfers, all benefits that are more income-enhancing or, at all, income-making. Of course, these social transfers have lost dramatically in inflation over the years, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is now being abandoned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I said that we made the system more poor, yet we also need to move further and, in some cases, make some social benefits really poor. I just want to say – Which is also important so that we know what dimensions it is about –: Next year, the increase in social and family benefits alone accounts for 360 million euros in addition to budgets. And how does that spread? Is it socially fair? Is it socially sound? – Yes, because the lowest income 20 percent, the lowest income fifth of households receives a quarter of this total volume, and, of course, we are particularly pleased to see that from the sex side, it can be said that it is 57 percent of women who benefit from the increase, from the valorization of social and family benefits. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely because we are going into an economically difficult time – the talk of stagflation – the increase in the valorization of these transfers is so vital, because they are not only better safeguarding against poverty and maintaining purchasing power, but also stabilizing the purchasing power that we urgently need to get out of the crisis. That is why I would ask you to agree as widely as possible on this request to secure our social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14304	Next speaker is Michael Seemayer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14328	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned a few times today: We have a very strong dependence on the European Economic Area, especially on the German Economic Area. We report to works councils almost daily that companies with high energy needs plan production relocations or have already started some of them. The reason for this is the high energy costs in Austria. Now, of course, you can say: An energy price cover does not do anything, is not a good idea, and we do nothing to reduce the high energy prices!, but if all other countries take measures to reduce energy prices in the short term, then orders will no longer be awarded and processed in Austria, but where energy prices are favourable. Unfortunately, there is no indication in the budget that you want to respond to it. The price for this will be paid by workers who are best sent in short-time jobs, in the worst case they will lose their jobs completely. In the course of the pandemic we have had to experience what it means when employees lose jobs and have to get through the rounds for a longer period of about 55 percent of the last net earnings. It's almost impossible. This pushes whole families into poverty, which is humiliating, that increases child poverty and leads to exclusion. It is therefore also necessary to evaluate unemployment benefits. And since the valorization of social benefits is a collective law, the valorization of unemployment benefit would have been a good match. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Loacker.]] Unfortunately, you didn't do that. This is not shown in the budget either. There is no increase in unemployment benefit, the valorization of unemployment benefit and the increase in the family allowance, which is currently 97 cents per day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] This is not enough for weitem to prevent child poverty. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14542	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Michael Seemayer is now speaking. Please, honourable Member. [[Call the SPÖ: It was right now!]] – You can speak again, Mr Deputies. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Next speaker: Mr Mag. Michael Hammer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14596	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, today's session – which has already been heard in some previous speakers – and of course the meeting tomorrow already has a special character, because we are, not a question, in a difficult, crisis-like situation. But the discharge measures that we decide on alone in these two days are really very important: from the abolition of cold progression to the just debated pension adjustment, which is clearly above the inflation rate for small pensions, to the valorization of the social and family benefits that we now decide on. This meeting, which really brings a lot to the Austrians, is already characterized by some conspicuousness. The SPÖ is particularly striking, because the same speeches as they have been given for six months are still being made: not taking into account at all what has already been done on discharge measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I think you need to update a little bit and write a few lines to your speeches, because that's what comes to people, and that's not what you're talking about, because you have to stop talking about everything that's being done by the government. But that's what we're used to from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A second conspicuousness with the SPÖ is that one could have done a lot of things about those things that are being decided today – of course, there have been coalitions, but one could have done a lot if one led the government, much what is now being done, for example, the valorization of family benefits or the abolition of cold progression – now says: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Black Minister of Finance!]] That's too late and too little!, and the Momentum Institute quotes, because no better arguments come to mind. But this is really a self-reliance that you are doing here today, because you have not done this in your time of government. And hopefully you won't be in government responsibility, because this government is implementing the measures that are important to people, and not the pity you are delivering from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Erasim: Which party do you belong to?]] Yes, the valorization of social and family benefits is not something you make so easy. Today, the Federal Minister of Finance has also given his budget speech and these measures must be shown in budgetary terms. We have also decided in the past – I would just like to quote it – in 2014, for example, to adjust the family allowance. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, we decided once again 4 per cent and then 1.9 per cent every second year – that was it. Now we're making the whole bill of inflation. This is sustainable and comes to people, not like those one-times – because you keep talking about the one-time payments. What was done at that time was not sustainable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Minister of Finance No said!]] A sentence on the liberals: At that time, in 2014, when we decided to adapt the family benefits, the liberals submitted an application for the valorization of family benefits. We did not implement it under the government at the time, but one thing has to be said: Under the government, we have launched another great family performance, namely the family bonus Plus, which by the way – SPÖ is looking after! This year, it will be increased from EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 000 per child per year. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is also true of the families. That's what the government is implementing. What you're giving in to the hot air of yours doesn't help any family.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14743	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14767	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, it is already a bit bizarre to see the representatives of the ÖVP and of the Greens at the speaker's desk and to hear about historical achievements, as well as the fact that the flood of money is breaking down on the families. – You live in a very own world, I have the feeling. [[Abg. Disoski: Not in yours, and that is good!]] This has to do with reality in Austria, I think, nothing to do. It is neither historical nor money to be paid to families, nor is the rest of the population. But I understand that one likes to take something that should almost be a matter of course, such as this valorization, to be celebrated, also to be diverted from the problems that prevail in Austria and which you have shared in debt. I say it again, because it's just a few days ago: As one in Austria can explain the introduction of the CO2 tax to someone who is rationally gifted, that's what I'm excited about. That is not to be explained, neither the population nor the economy. That's a knee shot, but in both knees. But that's just on the verge. Mr Angerer has already explained very beautifully: We have already presented a twelve-point programme quite a long time ago. They have qualified this as scurry, and, of course, all twelve points are of course useful, and in certain things it is thanks to God, after long pressure on our part, at least there or there in this direction. But we are far from having a solution. I have to remind you again, because today this is also the subject of the budget, and tomorrow too will be the subject: We will have federal debt at the end of 2023 in about 360 to 370 billion euros. – That for your sustainability! So the dimension that is converted into schilling – for those who are a little older – blows the frame and the calculator. Therefore, no one should talk about sustainability. The effects, not only in Austria, but also in Europe – and there you sit in the boat – we already see: The ECB's over years, decades of debt policy is leading us in absolute crazyness. It's not just because we want to take on new debts in Europe, as a whole – an insanity for Austria! – you can see where the euro course is currently moving, but also – and people outside will feel very quickly – at the progressive interest rate policy. Interests are rising, and there will be a lot of awakenings when they suddenly are able to pay for their loans for apartments, for houses, for their other loans the rates no longer, and those who are a little informed and have an idea of business now know that the construction activity is going down accordingly, because people can no longer comply with the financing rules. With everything you're talking about: Someone who has a bit of a vision – and I should be able to ask Members to do so and the government anyway – knows what is happening to us. There's no reason you're going to be here today. On the contrary: It is very, very much to do, and I hope that the house mind will eventually get a little more involved and you will accept our sensible proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14806	Mrs Mag. Meri Disoski. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14830	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Col. Worm, here as a FPÖler and to accuse the Federal Government of having lost the relation to reality, is as if the Pope were to distance himself from the Catholic Church. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can remind you that the FPÖ “Social Minister” – under quotation marks – Hartinger-Klein once thought that one could live from 150 euros per month – so much to the reality of the FPÖ. [[Call the FPÖ – in the direction of the blue-dressed speaker –:I like it that you are blue today! A nice blue you have today!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That was stop at the price!]] That's where we're on the subject. I would like to take you on a time trip to the year 2016. Fortunately, the Black and Blue Federal Government under Wolfgang Schüssel has been no longer in office for ten years now, but history. [[Abg. Belakovich: What, 2016?]] For just as long, SPÖ and ÖVP form a coalition in the usual large-coalition standstill manner. This year, for example, they are negotiating a right to child care, and they are negotiating the abolition of cold progression. None of it succeeds, none of it is the result of this SPÖ-ÖVP government. Instead of urgently necessary reforms for the Austrian population, there is above all one thing: large-coalition standstill. In 2016, something else happens, that is, a little gratifying, and the whole 87 675 times: So many children see the light of the world in 2016, and one of these children is Lara. Her mother Anna is a single parent and earns 1 300 euros gross in her part-time employment. An automatic annual adjustment of family and social benefits would have been urgently needed since the birth of her daughter, but unfortunately the large-coalition standstill government could not agree on this. This was said for Anna and her daughter: no child care allowance adjustments, no family allowance adjustments, and no deductions, such as the single child-retirement allowance, have previously been forgotten by Mr Loacker. As this large-coalition standstill government could not agree, nothing has happened, and the sufferers of this downtime policy were families, parents and their children, especially single parents – we know that a large part of them are women. They all needed an annual adjustment of family and social benefits – urgently! This practice has so far been politically ignored, nothing has happened. This federal government is looking where previous governments have looked away. Where others have been enslaved for years, we are implementing concrete measures for the people of our country. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to offset the effects of fossil-powered inflation, this Federal Government has repeatedly taken on the arms of families most urgently in need of it with direct payments. We Greens have always said: This is not far enough for us, we want structural changes. That is why, as the Federal Government, we are now implementing what many others have previously promised, but never redeemed. We do away with the cold progression and – and this And is important – we introduce an annual valorization of social and family benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] This is not a single payment, it is not a short-term financing programme. This annual adjustment is a structural change, and it has come to stay. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What does this automatic adjustment of social and family benefits mean for the single mother Anna and her daughter Lara? – It means that they are cast into numbers from 1. January 2023 308 euros remain in the stock exchange, and if you also add the previous discharge packages – the eco-social tax reform, the negative tax – that's 1 186 euros more. If social democrats come here today and call it a drop on the hot stone, then I can really just shake my head and ask you: How removed are you, please? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That stays in the stock exchange? You really believe that?]] For the single mother Anna, this automatic adjustment of social and family benefits means that at last what has been fully promised by various federal governments since the birth of her daughter, but has never been implemented. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Was the black-blue...?]] This will financially support their lives and lives of their daughter, as will improve the lives of many women, many families with small and medium-sized incomes in our country. Where promises from previous governments have failed, we make nails with our heads and implement these urgently necessary structural changes. I come to the conclusion: With the abolition of cold progression and the valorization of social and family benefits, we set a real milestone in Austrian social policy. We particularly support those people with low and medium incomes who are known to be women. We are deciding on a social policy milestone that will work in a sustainable way. He came to stay. That's good and very important.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14957	Mrs. Dr.in Susanne Raab spoke on a point of view. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e14978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I would like to say a very warm hello to the young people at the visitor gallery: I'm glad you're here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The current wave of inflation is particularly striking to the families, since we are all in agreement. The families are at the heart of our society, they are the foundation of our society, and that is why we in the government have agreed that we should also put the families at the centre of our discharge measures and anti-truth measures. We have done this with a mix of measures, on the one hand with a short-term one-off payment – with money transferred immediately and very quickly – and on the other hand with structural adjustments and increases that will affect families for many more decades. We already paid a special family aid of 180 euros in August. We paid the school start-up fee for each school-based child. We The tax reliefs increased, the family bonus plus increased from 1 500 to a maximum of 2 000 euros, and in particular those who may not be able to benefit from tax reliefs to the full extent, as many single-parents:individuals, in whom we have also greatly increased the multi-child supplement. However, we are not only helping with these one-off payments, but we have now also launched structural redundancies. We will now adapt all family benefits in Austria to inflation, valorize and thus continuously increase each year. Ladies and gentlemen, we only take out one single family benefit: the childcare allowance for an eight-month-old child! Depending on the model type of child benefit, this means an additional child care allowance of between 700 and 1 400 euros for the dependent person per child. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would also like to mention in this House that we in the government very much appreciate the debates in the House and also welcome the suggestions you have made. Many parties have come to believe that it would be reasonable not to pay the start-up money in September, but in August, because the acquisitions of the families are getting even worse. We will also change this and will pay the school start-up money not only in September, but already in August. I would also like to thank the honourable Members for their suggestions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, it is important for us to keep a close eye on where we can make a little easier for the families. This is only illustrated by one example – and this is decided today: Tag Strengthening Fatherhood. Especially for fathers, the family-time bonus – i.e. this support, which is also assigned to the father-month – is no longer to be included in a later child-care allowance. It has many fathers who have gone into the papal month and at the end of the karenz the mother said: Now I would like to add two more months of karenz!, very annoyed that this reference, which took place during the papal month, was withdrawn afterwards. These are effective things, as we quickly put in place measures that come directly to the families. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you must know: Family aid has been available in the current form since 1967, i.e. many, many decades. It is often said that you can adjust this family performance to the price each year. We're not just talking about it anymore, we're just doing it now.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15059	The next word is Karl Schmidhofer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15084	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the screens that our debate is following today! I can begin by thanking myself for understanding, for having been exposed to almost 14 months for family reasons, both professionally and here in the National Council. I should also like to thank all those in the house who have written us over and over again, in particular, for calling us. I was able to accept a lot of encouragement for the family for our very, very difficult time. Thank you for that! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in these months, in which I was not here, the tone has become a bit rougher. Perhaps we should focus on things, on the topics and on what we can do for people, and perhaps screw back the volume in dealing with each other a little bit. The valorization of social assistance and family aid has been addressed and listed in detail by my previous speakers, and I think it is really a milestone. Many governments have worked on it. We have heard, since 1967 there has been aid for the families. In the meantime, we have even had solo governments where this has not been done or is not done. Now, with this government, with the Greens and with the ÖVP, it has succeeded to secure these social benefits for the future valorized. Ms. Minister, 1.2 million families with 1.9 million children benefit from the fact that they can plan for the money to arrive. Yes, the Federal Government is helping people. We must never forget, however, that there is a need for economic performance, that there is a need for diligent workers in this country who also fill the budget, Minister, so that we can also afford what we can then give to people in a social way. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15129	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 4 to 14 and continue to complete the agenda. [[15:43:03]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2794/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on a federal law with which the general social security scheme is based. Social security legislation, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Self-Employed Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accidental Insurance Act (1682, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15177	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Magnificence comes to the fore. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15208	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about amending two laws. The first change: In some federal states, the amendments to the basic social assistance law, as we have decided here in the House, have still not been implemented. Most recently, a priced bonus of 300 euros was paid for particularly vulnerable groups, including unemployed people, social assistance professionals:innen, but also minimum pensioners. Now it has happened that individual countries have counted this price bonus on the housing aid, which, of course, was not a desirable effect of the one-off payment and also no meaning of the matter. This is now being corrected retroactively, i.e. with the implementation, the non-accounting of the price bonus is explicitly decided on such benefits. If the amendments to the basic social assistance law have been implemented in the federal states too, such accounting problems should be in the past anyway, as there is also clear that there must be no more accounting for federal benefits. The second amendment concerns the Social Insurance Organization Act, which has been adopted under Turquoise Blue. This provided for an assessment of the suitability of insurance representatives before they took up their duties. There was a great problem that although this aptitude test did not really say anything about the suitability of the representatives, it was necessary and, of course, very much so. Many who have been nominated have not yet been able to prove this examination. In the future, it will be possible to prove the suitability or the courses within a year from the moment one is nominated for the function. I would ask you to approve these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15256	I would ask you to do what we agreed to, namely, that discussions between the Federal Ministers and MEPs should be avoided in the case of speeches by Members on the grounds of courtesy. Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15283	Mr Koza has just carried it out, there are two amendments. We've never been happy with fitness tests. We believe that people in self-management are always suitable people. This is now being changed in relation to the invitation to these so-called information events. Second: Unfortunately, unfortunately, not all federal states have yet implemented the basic social assistance law. But let me say a few words about self-government, because the Court of Auditors report on 157 pages gives information about what actually happened from the 2018 merger and from the promises made by then: except sound and smoke – apologise, Federal Minister, that was not meant now – nothing! There were four promises on the table. Sebastian Kurz said at the time that the remodeling was expected to bring 1 billion euros by 2023. You remember all And the audiences also, it was the so-called patient and patient billions. It has not come, of course, on the contrary: A few hundred million euros cost the merger more – the first promise was broken. The second claim or the second promise was: Of the posts in the administration, 10 percent are to be saved by natural processes in three years. Do you know what actually happened? – The staff level has increased slightly – second promise has been broken. Third claim or third promise: There will be fairness and harmonisation of services. – In reality, the benefits are only partially adjusted, and there are still many differences between professional groups and federal states that remain. The harmonisation of benefits – all patients:the same benefits are to be received – cannot be said. The fourth claim, the fourth promise: By combining it there are synergies with IT, in the computer area one will save, and the aggregation in the data centers will bring savings. – There has been no synergies, the IT has not yet been combined, but it has come to an additional cost. Only so much about what people in Austria have been promised in recent years and what has actually been kept. I really regret that small money was made here in a cheap way and that the benefits for patients could not be improved or remained the same – let's express it positively once. Especially now – Mr Federal Minister, you are Minister of Health – we are experiencing a situation where child health, youth health are at stake, where so many psychotherapies are missing – and there is just 35 million euros in the current budget for vaccination and psychotherapy. for children and adolescents. I believe that this is far too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15344	Dr Dagmar Belakovich is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is about the point – the previous speakers have already said – that it is handled differently in the federal states, for example, that special payments are charged for housing aid. This is to be eliminated by this law, because the intention was, of course, that there should be additional money for people who are particularly burdened by this price. A second part, which is co-packed, is the fact that this federal government is now coming and that people who still need aptitude exams to be able to take up jobs in social security are part of a year period. This is already a witness of poverty, ladies and gentlemen. We are a chamber state, and it's all very greedy that they get any important jobs in social security, and then don't put it together that these people have completed the training in good time. So I have to tell you: We will also wish to vote separately on it at second reading. It can't be nice! This is an actual evidence of poverty for you as a federal government in this state. I think everyone has the time to be trained in good time, everyone has the time to prepare for it. There's no need to be excused for 12 months.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15407	Magnificence comes to the fore. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15432	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the end of the social policy debate, we are now debating a very small legislative text with which we want to ensure that once-and-a-half payments also arrive at those they need. When I look back at this debate – including the debate after the budget speech and the debate on pensions and the increase in the valorization of family and social benefits – it is clear that the Federal Government is making a particularly visible budget, namely the social manuscript, particularly with the budget presented. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, in which there is a very high rate of inflation, it is important that the Federal Government, together, take measures to benefit those people who have low incomes. This, of course, is particularly true of those pensioners who are located in the lower income segment. In my view, the Minister of Finance has said something completely right: We must not continue to follow the motto: Cost what it wants!, but we must, as he has formulated it, “provide the necessary equipment” at this stage. Even in the packages we decided over the course of the year – which included these one-off payments as well – it was stated that those people who are difficult at this time and who are not so easy to get over the rounds with their income are specifically supported with one-off payments, especially those pensioners who receive a compensation allowance. If we look again at the increases and once-and-a-half payments that we have already guaranteed in the course of the year, it has already been implemented by our clubman today, for pensioners up to the compensation allowance during the year, a total grant of EUR 1 948 – EUR 1 948 as an improvement to the pension, so that they can pay the bills and finance daily life. For example, guests with pensions of 1,500 euros received a total of 1 621 euros within this year. This is an increase of at least 8.5 percent, seen all year round. We want to ensure that the decision we are taking under this item on the agenda also benefits 100 per cent of the people they urgently need, and not at country level where social assistance is paid, for example in the case of housing aid. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, these are challenging times, and I assume that everyone, including the Social Democrats, has a TV at home and occasionally watch the news – not only the news in Austria, but also the news in neighbouring countries. There you will see very clearly: The problem of high inflation is not an Austrian island problem. This problem cannot therefore be solved by Austria alone. What we can do, and what we as the Federal Government must do as Parliament, is to support those who need urgent support at this stage, precisely in the sense that our Minister for Finance has formulated today: “to provide the necessary one”. The Federal Government and the decision we are now considering under this item on the agenda guarantee that we clearly support those who urgently need support, for that is the social manuscript of our Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15492	Mr Wolfgang Zanger came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15516	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the last few hours, there has been such an anointing event. While you, black and green, have been consecrating each other, those who sit at home in front of the televisions, the Styrian pub is literally getting bigger and bigger and has trained into a real cloister, which has sometime to come out – for one is one thing: You have no idea what's going on out there in the world and with our people. You talk, and the stories you tell aren't even fairy tales. That's all science fiction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's because you all have no idea how people are out there. I'm not surprised either. I'm a lot on my way. You're never gonna see anyone there. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Michael Hammer, Hanger and Zarits.]] The only thing where you're seen: You hide in the VIP tents and move each other to business as we discover in the investigative committee day by day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The simple Members, like Karl Schmidhofer, whom I met at the Maxlaun, see that they quickly get a measure of beer, which then go with their colleagues, and then they disappear secretly, because they are already afraid of their own people waiting outside. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Michael Hammer and Hanger.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The President is ashamed!]] The only ones you can see are the ladies and gentlemen of the country. They'll pick up the waxes for you. They also seek to assure more or less crediblely: I don't have anything to do with those up there. - That's the truth. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That goes back to “Welcome to Austria”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You have no idea at all how people are now in a normal business when a pensioner's mother is working on the meat counter and considering whether she can buy 15 decagrams of extra sausage or only 10 or if an elder is in front of a pile of toilet paper. He would like the four-layered, but the money is only enough for the three-layered. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Michael Hammer, Hanger and Zarits.]] These aren't stories I'm telling you, these are truths. If I saw something like that, I'd like to give him a whole palette of paper paper. Then let him go here and present it to you and put it where it belongs!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15625	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall put the votes on agenda item 13. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, as there are large amendments or additional amendments and requests for separate votes and a short interruption of the meeting to prepare the clubs for these large votes, I shall put these votes to agenda items 5, 2 and 3 and 4 to 14 until the vote on agenda items 15 to 22. [[15:58:38]] 15. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2830/A by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1713, e.g.) 16. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act (1714, e.g.) 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2677/A by Dr Susanne Fürst, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on provisional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 (COVID-19 Act - COVID-19-MG) (1715 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2320/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, Members and Members on compensation payments to persons who have suffered psychological, physical and financial damage through unlawful regulations and constitutional laws (1716, e.g.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2685/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on state-wide voluntary and free antibody tests to establish a comprehensive data base on Covid-19 (1717 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15717	We are continuing to complete the agenda. We shall now proceed to items 15 to 19 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Philip Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15753	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to take a brief look at the numerous speeches on the budget debate. [[Abg. Belakovich: There was no budget debate, Mr Colleague.]] I have never personally experienced what I have experienced today – especially the speeches of the Greens – in this form in this House. At the beginning, I thought that it was prefabricated speeches that Sigrid Maurer and August Wöginger together spent a word on the budget – which might be normal for themselves, because it is understandable that ÖVP and Greens want to praise their own budget. But the longer I have heard the contributions of the Greens today, the more I have come to the conviction: You really believe what you said! You really believe that you are doing good work and that people may need to be grateful for what you have listed in crisis management around Corona and today's budget. [[Abg. Black: Yes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the reality of people's life – I have now remembered a pensioner's party in Klagenfurt in summer –: If a pensioner tells me quite openly that she is now asking herself the question of whether she can still afford drugs and therapies, facing the strain, and says that she has to save them, because she no longer gets to grips with life, and she no longer has the money, and it no longer goes out in the back and in the front, and the Greens tell us today how wonderful everything is, then this shows that you are miles away from the reality of life. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] And if Sebastian Kurz presents his book today – hands to heaven, Gabriel Obernosterer is already quite excited when he hears the name –: That's the same mistake! At some point, you believe the stories yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] Sebastian Kurz has told us about the lives of patients in the middle of crisis management, while doctors and nurses – which you have unfortunately forgotten in the budget – tell us what he is doing for a world-class crisis management, how great he is and what that is for a great federal government. The same mistakes you make now in the budget and in the same way during the inflation. You tell the human beings some layers, and sometime you believe them yourself. This is very dangerous if one believes one's own stories sometime, Gabriel, that's quite, very dangerous, because this doesn't make crisis management better. [[Abg. Obernoster shakes the head and holds his hand in front of the eyes]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] It is no coincidence that at the Corona crisis, we came through the crisis considerably worse than other states that we have invested billions of euros in areas, billions that we are missing have thrown out 42 billion euros from the window without arriving at the people. Today the pensioners are told: No, the money for you, for the pension we don't have! - That's your policy. We will only get out of the crisis if we finally learn from the mistakes, whether in the corona crisis management, where you have slept the third summer in a row. I can't listen to myself anymore, you don't believe it! Summer for summer you go on summer vacation, come back and sleep the summer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is that a crisis management? The test strategy has been broken, we start from the beginning again and again. Mr. Federal Minister for Health, we would have quite, quite different things to talk about: Two-class medicine. How are people in Austria doing in rural areas? Do all have the same good performance? Does the care fit? There would be so much to do, but no, we always start with any requests to Corona, where nothing goes on. One of them is the Greens and the Blacks, who don't do anything in crisis management, who don't learn from the mistakes, and the other are the liberals with their stories. They print out of the Internet papers, are the wonder of science and believe that they are something very big on the track: Bitter substances, worms, crisis management – just tell a pot that doesn't bring us on! [[Abg. I don't know. You're unsuspecting!]] – No, this is unfortunately the same subject, which is unfortunately the same subject. That's not how we get out of this crisis. One and one is not three, Mr. Colleague, you can tell us a hundred times in the corona crisis management, that doesn't bring us any further. That's why I'm really asking: Let's not make the same mistake all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] People are quite, very different. Let's see that we're bringing something on there! The Greens should not focus on Sebastian now and say: Mr Federal Minister, such a great job you are doing, while people in life's reality can't even afford the drugs again.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15861	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15883	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Dear visitors here at the gallery! Let us try to bring back some seriosity and get a little away from the stories from the Carinthian valley and come to the actual item on the agenda! [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] This is a collective day-by-day issue, in which we are discussing various measures on the subject of Covid and Corona. Mr Kucher just meant that we were all completely unplanned and that we all had no idea what to do with each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] I don't know if you know the word virus variant management plan, because that's what's been up for a long time. I have also recommended to you several times to look through and read this 80-page plan, because then you know what the current plan is and what we are currently working with. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kucher]] Four scenarios are defined in this, from the worst case to the best case. This is about the fact that scientists, experts and experts, including the authorities in Austria – including national authorities, for example from Carinthia, from Vienna or also from Burgenland – have worked there on 80 pages, as we are currently dealing with Covid and Corona. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is also a question of constantly evaluating this framework, of looking at the figures, of looking at what it is like at the moment. It is also about having a very good test system in Europe that we are one of the few countries in which you get ten free tests per month – five antigen, five PCR tests. In the meantime, you have to pay for it in other countries. It's about having a wastewater screening that we've been looking at all the time at how it looks with the dynamics in the infection, how it looks with the effective reproductive value. But this is also about the fact that, in the meantime – also against the resistance of socially democratically-led countries – we have finally obtained a decent register, a data register by which one realizes that the hospitalizations are just something different than some of you say here again and again. That's the plan, and we're acting after this plan. These parameters are constantly analysed. And what some people are putting down as seeing numbers is actually active pandemic management, even though colleagues from social democracy would like to contradict us there and tell us something else with their glasswork. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Perhaps in the meantime the pandemic has changed, perhaps also in Carinthia and in Social Democracy, that the virus in the meantime is quite different from a year ago, when we had a delta wave, it is hoped that in the meantime too, because of course, the measures that the Federal Government is setting up have also been adapted accordingly. Omikron is known to have a different pathogeneity, immunization within the population, not least due to the vaccination rate and due to the booster and protective vaccinations, is a distinctly different one year ago. And Paxlovid, one of the two Covid drugs, is hopefully also known in the meantime. By the way, a great praise in this respect to the city of Vienna, which really manages the delivery of Paxlovid; the other federal states could cut off a corresponding piece there too. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with Mr Cornelia Ecker, Mr Rendi-Wagner and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] The pandemic has changed, but it is not over, even though the colleagues from the FPÖ want us to believe it all the time. Probably later, the special representative for alternative facts, science hostility and illegitimate Taferl, colleague Hauser, will explain something completely different here anyway. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is it still going?]] That is, we must continue to be vigilant, we must be careful, we must see that we adapt to the circumstances, and we will do so. If it is necessary when the experts, the scientists and scientists tell us this, then we will also have to take action again. It's about to be evaluated. Please do everything in peace and with caution! We look at the whole thing, and if it is necessary, then there will be measures again, but everything with a plan, with the virus variant management plan. Again – I invite colleagues Kucher and Social Democracy: Just read him through, then you also understand how we are currently acting!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15966	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e15988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if you've listened to my two previous speakers, you might think it's all really dramatic again. It has also announced the green club woman right after the Federal presidential election: The mask's coming back! – Of course, this has also happened by chance after the election. If there had been an election, no one would have talked about it. The Federal Government obviously has nothing else to do with pushing you back into forced management. In schools the masks are to come back, inside the interiors they are to come, in public transport they are to come. Mr Schalmeiner before me has knocked himself on the shoulder for the empty mass tests that have been taking place in our country since 2020, and we were the only ones who were against it at the time and said that they will not bring anything. Today we know: They didn't bring anything. Even the head of the doctor's chamber from Upper Austria, Peter Niedermoser, said that these mass tests did not do anything. If you look at the death figures and the wave movements, then countries like Sweden are much better off, for there were fewer dead people there. So this federal government has done nothing but introduce a forced regime, right up to the pressure to immunise, which you had to take back for yourself, because you came up with it: That doesn't work either. That means you've just put pressure on people, and that's supposed to go on now. That is why we believe that this must finally end. By the way, the WHO itself has announced that the pandemic is almost over, Joe Biden has said: The pandemic is over!, only in Austria do you not want to see it because you have found joy in how to put pressure on people. We are the only ones who have always resisted, and we will do so now. That is why we are now calling for an end to all measures and also an end to this Act of Action. It is time to restore freedom to citizens. It has been plagued enough, it has been locked up enough and there have been enough contempt for citizens who have opposed it. There must also be no more discrimination against people who do not want to be tested, vaccinated and who do not want to wear a mask, because these masks do not bring as much as they do without a mask. And if you still don't hear from the government parties, you're obviously the only ones in this country. The people are thanks to God already a step further, so I ask you again: Let this inconvenient law of action finally be! Get rid of it and give the Austrians their freedom back!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16030	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16056	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Belakovich, if you listen, you would have to believe that we are in a terrible country. I think the Austrians are very happy to live here. It is a beautiful and good land, and you can live in our country very pleasant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about? – This amendment to Agenda item 15 is intended to allow the existing test offer, for Covid-19 tests, to be applied to particularly vulnerable groups of persons in the settled area, even if they have no symptoms that the doctors will carry out a test if the patients wish. The health insurance companies have to replace this with the doctor by 25 euros, and the federal government will then replace these costs with the insurance institution from the Covid-19 crisis management fund. So far, this has only been possible in people with symptoms. If a patient has wanted this without symptoms, it was not possible. Especially vulnerable persons are subject to our special care. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Black.]] In addition, an advisory fee of EUR 12 will be reimbursed to the established doctors for consulting on Covid-19 means. The same rule of reimbursement applies to the insurance institution by the Federal Government. This change of law serves both patient satisfaction and fair remuneration for the use of established doctors. In particular, it should contribute to the rapid detection and treatment of Covid-19 in risk groups. Now on the application 2677/A of the FPÖ Group to the COVID-19 Act: I would just like to make a brief comment. A cancellation at this time, with increasing case numbers, would be risky and grossly negligent. [[Abg. Belakovich: Necessary!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please go! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,]] - If you don't want to hear it: I say it again: at this time risky and grossly negligent. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, I know! In Austria...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] So, and now on request 2320/A(E) of the FPÖ Group: The Constitutional Court has recognised as constitutional conformity the access chosen by the Federal Government to address the consequences of corona measures by means of legal claims and promotions. [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah, we need to emphasize that now! Isn't that a matter of course?]] There is therefore no legal need to extend the scope as requested in the application. By the way, the legal path is already open to asserting claimed claims, and you know that. We will also reject this request. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] On application 2685/A(E) of the FPÖ Group concerning federal anti-body tests, there is the following to say: Unfortunately, there is still no known threshold of antibodies from which general protection occurs. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, then... can also delete immediately!]] Therefore, a safe protection status is not possible. We will not agree to this request either. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken many measures in the fight against the pandemic and have taken them even further in order to protect our people as best we can, a challenge that we have also mastered very well in international comparison and continue to master well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Mr Kucher, it is actually counter-productive and inconsistency that we are talking about here at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] One word to the budget: The budget is an excellent one, and it is excellent given the difficult situation. I congratulate Magnus Brunner on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16203	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16224	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! A new autumn, a new covid wave in the news and again a covid block from the Health Committee! What is the same is: the way politics is made, and the time. There is calming down until the election day, then the election has gone, and we are talking about new measures. Now it's a new mask obligation. It is little invasive, but what is likely to be decided here by means of amendment is more expenditure without any success account. By the summer of 2022, almost 3 billion euros were spent on covid tests. You have to keep this in mind: EUR 2.9 billion for tests. [[Abg. Belakovich: You agreed at the time!]] In 2021, a total of 3.1 billion euros were spent on health care as a whole in the budget. You can now think for yourself whether this is the right set of priorities, especially under the premise that there is a huge stack of long-term reforms in the health system, which also cost a little bit. We all know that in this house. If you go to the main table in hospitals, doctor's offices or simply to the main table, each individual will confirm this need for reform. We are still absolutely top-ranking in the EU in the test quotas and are at 22 at the positive rate. So we are still doing far more tests than we can be legitimated, and now the test number is being expanded: to risk patients. That sounds good, but despite the pandemic, it has not been able to capture patients properly, to know diagnostics and thus to seriously implement these criteria. Even the variant management plan does not contain tests for risk patients. It's precisely that you haven't learned enough from it: more money for any intermediate solutions that honestly don't even belong to the law, just because it's satisfying the newspapers and creating an additional budget item for the doctors. We need a serious return to normality and we need to acknowledge that Covid is no longer leaving. We must address the underlying reforms. The focus on infection numbers without differentiation does not help us at all, and simply distributing tests like this has so far not brought us anything in the entire pandemic. Please stop the pseudo-measures and alleged reforms! Save the discussion about intensive beds and make a proper care reform so that we can overcome the staff shortage in hospitals! Let's teach patients when they need what help, and let's stop wanting to balance Covid with money indiscriminately! We are willing to talk about content and make our health system fit for the future. Thank you. [[Also performing the thanks in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16273	It is reported as the next Member of Parliament Silvan. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16294	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! I always admire Mr Schalmeiner when he represents the government's mismanagement as the best ever. This is always very admirable. He could become a good car seller, but the dead numbers actually speak another language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to comment on agenda items 15 and 16. That is where, Mr Federal Minister, a kind of test strategy is to be installed. In the template, there is a wording that is more than problematic from our point of view: There the established doctors are entitled to:individuals, in particularly vulnerable persons – people who have the 60. have completed a lifetime, and people who have a body mass index above 30 – carry out an antigen test, even if they are symptomatic. From my point of view, this formulation is so problematic because it is a difference whether you have the opportunity to be tested voluntarily, or whether – perhaps a 61-year-old man who is going to a settled doctor with back problems – you have to visit a doctor and then miss an antigen test. I imagine this very difficult in practice. How does that work? They also receive – Mr Pöttinger has explained – a fee of 25 euros and a fee of 12 euros for consulting on covid medicines. Now I don't know if this makes sense in the fight against pandemic. Or should doctors be lured to enter into cash contracts? At least it's not a pandemic fight. We already have mid-October, so we actually don't have time. The case numbers rise, Mr Pöttinger mentioned this himself. Mr Federal Minister, you said in committee that you have, of course, learned from the experiences of the last two and a half years. This is not the impression of this regulation. The Court of Auditors, in its last report, criticised the Federal Government that the government's policy is to ensure that the population's imprisonment is at a low level. It has fallen not only in Covid vaccinations, but even in established vaccinations. Now you're making this arrangement that's giving you the scepticism of the population against covid tests, because it doesn't want everyone to be tested. Do you not fear that people will avoid visiting a doctor because of this scheme? In fact, you're putting on an 11 meter of FPÖ again, but that's your problem. As the Court of Auditors said, money was in excess. Nevertheless, the pandemic was fought as badly as hardly in another country. Mr Federal Minister, in the past we have taken a similar measure as a social democracy. We won't carry these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16339	Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16360	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate listeners! The look is certainly not good. Hardly the Federal Presidency election has been struck, the green club woman Maurer is in front of the cameras and says: The masquerade will come. Before the election, rising numbers of infections and additional occupations in the hospitals were apparently not yet a topic. After the election, forced measures need to be implemented again at once. This look is not good. Even if Mr. Federal Minister then tried to relativize smoke, I would ask him to comply with his own variant management plans. What's in these variant management plans? – An FFP2 masculine requirement in interiors, in public spaces or in transport is only provided if we first have a virus mutation that spreads again as much as Omikron, but at the same time is as sick as the first infection. Delta was a year ago. Mr President, has I missed something, or are we now in this situation that we need to discuss a mask obligation? - I don't think so. Let's take a closer look at the numbers. Thank God there are now corresponding lists of the GÖG, which of the hospitalized patients is actually with Covid-19, i.e. the disease, in the hospital and who has a coronary infection only as a side diagnosis. The figures show that only about 22 percent of the normal station – last week’s stand – suffered from Covid-19, and the rest had a secondary diagnosis. At the intensive care station, it was even 12 percent, which are actually located on the intensive care station because of Covid-19. That is, in 2,500 patients at the normal station, as we currently have, we speak of just 500 patients at the normal station who have Covid-19, and of about 15, perhaps 20 patients, with Covid-19 at the intensive care station. This is far, far away from what we have had in the past, far, far from what we might call a state of emergency health policy. We therefore also believe that the COVID-19 Act and also the treatment of Sars-Cov-2 in the framework of the Epidemic Act should be repealed, and this is also the case today. We have a completely different situation, not only with regard to the hospitalized, but with regard to the whole disease. You can protect yourself with a vaccination today if you want to, you can protect yourself today with FFP2 masks if you want. You can be tested today if you want to. If you are positively tested, you can rely on effective medicines that are now approved and are available in Austria for three-quarters of a year. That means you can do a lot of yourself to prevent a serious illness. Forced measures the state and generalized restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights are absolutely not necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, our forecast models or government forecast models have a serious weakness: Although we know how sick the virus is – very little – we know that it is very easily spreading, we know what treatment methods we have, but what we do not know is how many people in this country have natural or acquired immunity to omicron or to Sars-Cov-2. That is exactly why it was necessary to carry out comprehensive antibody testing, as I have requested, for which the proposal is on the table, which the Federal Government factions have rejected in the Health Committee and are likely to reject today at the plenary session. This would be exactly the figures that would improve the entire forecast models accordingly. I have just received the information that at the moment you do not even know whether we have 50, 60 or 70 percent of the population with an existing immunity. The only thing we have is the number of vaccines, with a vaccination saying nothing about actual immunity. Minister of State, Rethinking Once again, your position! Compared to what we do about pointless mass testing for the active infectious state, the determination of the immunity situation in the population would be a great help scientifically and for the further forecasting. Maybe you don't want to know the exact numbers at all. Perhaps we want to keep Corona as a scapegoat and a great distraction, because the real problems are quite different. The real problem is the human situation in our health care, Mr. Federal Minister, the staff shortage in the hospitals, in the nursing homes, the closure of departments, ambulances, surgical departments or entire stations in the old homes. Why is that so? – Because in the past two years exactly nothing has been done to support the so-called heroes of everyday life, but quite the contrary: The employees in these areas have had intolerable working conditions over the last two years. The corona measures, vaccination, test pressure, high pressure and, of course, the human breakdowns from diseases have led to a labour burden that has driven many people into flight to leave this profession and take up other activities. 10 to 15 percent less workers in the hospitals, up to 15, 20 percent less capacity by the lack of care staff in the old homes, that is the reality nowadays. Mr Federal Minister, I was waiting for your answers in vain. One small step has been taken with the care reform, but it will not come into force until next year, which is only a first step in the right direction. With regard to all matters relating to the medical sector, both in the established area and in the hospital sector, I miss your initiatives and the money is missing. That makes good sense that we have the budget debate today and tomorrow, because you do not budget a special budget for social insurance or for the financing of hospitals. You should know from the past two years that you have come to the end that there is a need for additional funds. How do you want to pay off the overtime and the additional services if you cannot send the staff to time compensation because otherwise normal operation can no longer be maintained in the hospitals or in the institutions? That's where you need extra money. You need extra money to get personal relief. You need extra money to motivate the few remaining ones and keep them at the bar. And you have to budget that, Minister of State! I would ask you to stand by, see that we have an additional item in the health budget! Otherwise, it will become quite dark for people and health care in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16444	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office Please take the floor with you, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16465	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ has requested the replacement of the COVID-19 Act so that this injustice regime is finally terminated for all time. This law, which entitles the Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister of Health to make completely inadmissible and disproportionate interventions in our private and economic life, must go away because it is unworthy of a free country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must remove all the possibilities that this law creates for the Minister of Health to impose various measures by means of regulations, for we have seen how this possibility is misused: excessive lockdowns, closures of companies over months, bans on outlaws, unworthy contact restrictions – we can only meet with three, four, five contact persons – as well as children and young people who are kept away from the schools that are really terrorized and traumatized. It can't be described differently. We see the damage in the practices of psychotherapists and psychologists. We therefore also request compensation for all the victims of these disproportionate measures. Not least, no masculine duty for workers, children and students in schools for many hours can no longer come – that can no longer be done! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has been said, the Federal Government is not capable of dealing with these special powers. It proves the old prejudice that governments misuse such powers. Any collateral damage that has long been proven – the damage exceeds the benefits of the measures in the case of weitem – is pushed aside. As early as the third autumn this dark cloud is circled over Austria: The numbers rise, the beds are getting tight! This reeducation cloud is still alive, but that must be done! On the current debate on the obligation to make masks: We all know the pictures of the election party on Sunday, where the green Hautevolee – or I don't know how to call it otherwise: first the two ministers Zadić and Weessler, then Vice chancellor Kogler and Klubobfrau Maurer – posed with the masks in front of the camera. [[Call the ÖVP: How were you?]] When she believed the cameras were gone, the masks were gone. [[Abg. Belakovich: But that's how it always was!]] A picture says a thousand words, comparing these two pictures says more than a thousand words. Nothing can better express this contradiction, the senselessness and the hypocrisy of these measures than these two images. And nothing has been able to express the superiority and disrespect for the people, and especially for the children and young people in schools, more than the expression of Clubobfrau Maurer: Yes, of course the masquerade is coming back! – Yes, not for you or just in front of the camera, but the subjects, the trade workers, in the food trade, who are supposed to carry the masks over 8 hours, despite all health consequences. The children are also to be re-donated in class. It's not allowed to happen anymore! For me, this was a low point of our society. I would not have thought it possible for such a measure to be imposed, to allow children to sit in class with the mask for hours and to be subject to distance regulations. [[Abg. Amesbauer: A crime!]] That can't come anymore! The end of the re-education and the abuse of the population, the end of these special powers of the Federal Government! Start reforming the health system! In the last two years, they have not managed to obtain only one bed; they have become less. Health care officer Kaniak has just listed all the shortcomings. Dedicate yourself to this your area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16539	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16561	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are constantly told by every Minister of Finance that the budget is figures-turned policy. Mr Minister, I would recommend, please look at page 47 of Mr Finanzminister's budget speech, then we know what is still in store for us in this year's health policy. [[The speaker put a table entitled “UG 24 – Health” and a paragraph from the budget speech to the speaker:innenpult.]] These are two important passages, one of which I have just announced. I quote breakdown 24, health – please read on page 47, ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! [[Abg. Maurer: Wait, we have to get the magnify!]] [[Call the Greens: Not readable!]] While we are here trying to convince the government that it is finally abolishing these forced measures, it is doing exactly the opposite. It shall include the following measures in the budget: “In the field of health, we will see 1.2 billion in the coming year. Euro for the control of the COVID-19 panel – this is intended to serve, among other things, to further finance the procurement of vaccines”, and so on. Mr Minister, tell me right now! Politics continues in the third corona year as before: with vaccines, vaccines and once again vaccinations. EUR 1.2 billion is intended for the purchase of further vaccines. Mr Minister, I have here in every speech – also in your presence, but unfortunately you were at the debate on popular desire No to the requirement of vaccination – ask why you recommend a vaccine whose efficacy and safety are not documented. Why don't you answer the question? For the x-t time, I ask you the question: By July 2024, Biontech/Pfizer has time to document the effectiveness and safety of its vaccine against the EMA. Moderna has time to document the effectiveness and safety of its vaccine by March 2024. That's not documented yet, but you're still vaccinating this vaccine. They're counsel-resistant. I have given you the numbers of the EMA over and over again: At a reporting rate of 6 per cent, stand 17. In September, more than 26,000 deaths and more than 2 million serious side effects were documented within the European Union near the vaccinations. That, as I said, at a reporting rate of 6 percent! You don't seem to care. I have stood here x-time and have brought the comparison between Europe and Africa. You know, your argument for prescribing a vaccination was always: We need to increase the vaccination rate so that people get through the pandemic safely! Africa proves the opposite: slightest vaccination rates, no problem with Corona, with the pandemic. Today I will show you new facts that you really need to know. [[The speaker sets a table with the heading “Vaccines against Covid-19: Comparison Number of vaccinations with number of coded vaccinations 2016-2021” and a table on the speaker:insult.]] For the years 2016 to 2020, Germany's medical associations have documented the number of vaccinations and the number of side effects compared with 2021. In 2021, in Germany – documented – there were weak 2.5 million side effects. That means: In Germany, 2.5 million people – documented – were in medical treatment on the basis of the disease picture. We ask ourselves again and again: Where did all the staff come from? And if you break this down to Austria – in relation to one to ten – this means that even in Austria 250 000 to 300 000 people were in medical treatment due to corona vaccination and, of course, lack of the labour market. Don't forget that! What are you doing? – You go here and say we get 1.2 billion euros of vaccines – vaccination, vaccination, vaccination! – and ignore all these documented facts. You know, we've been pointing out our plan B for over a year. Our plan B means timely medical treatment. We have said and asked: Send doctors to the corona positivs, not the police! Treat people with medication in good time! [[Call the Greens: Ivermectin!]] There are now medications, only these drugs are prescribed far too little. [[The speaker presents a panel with the title “Corona drugs are hardly prescribed” and the section of a newspaper article on the speaker:innenpult.]] We have ordered 240 000 doses, of which only one fifth has been prescribed so far, although this is quite easy. Why aren't they prescribed? - Because the doctors are trimmed to vaccinate people. Please implement the plan B of the Freedom Party, forget the forced measures! Quit this corona regime and finally give people their freedom, even with timely medical treatment!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16638	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16664	Mr President. High house! Maybe for classification a few figures, dates and facts about the corona situation: We are now in a phase where the WHO – and this is also important when it comes to evaluating the situation – says that we are entering a life with Covid. That's a thesis I've been representing for a long time. We need to learn the pandemic in the third year to deal with it. That's what we do. This means allowing for a piece of normality and not being in permanent crisis mode. This means that we are doing two things: implementing the variant management plan – yes, here we are, we are in the scenario 2. We now have a significantly different, better instrumentarium available in terms of how to deal with the pandemic. We have better numerical and data material, we know who with which prediseases is in the hospital, with which main diseases is in the hospital – keyword Covid-19 data register. That is to say, in the clear text – it is, I believe, mentioned by colleagues Kaniak –: In 50 percent of people who are hospitalised and have a diagnosis of Covid, the by-diagnosis of Covid and the main diagnosis is a completely different reason for delivery. This figure is essential. Why? – Because we can judge how the hospitals really look like. The real lack – this one has also been addressed – is the staff. I totally agree with you. Some of this has to do with Covid, but not only because there is a labour shortage in the whole of the care and social sector, as well as in the labour market at all, which is quite dramatic. That was with one reason why we are trying to do two things with the care reform: firstly, to keep the people who are active in the care sector there – the first payment of the increased salary payment will take place this December, Austria-wide, uniform for all the professional groups working there, and also in The same level; it will then be transferred to the collective contract – and second, to invest in training, i.e. to ensure with the care grant for vocational training a financing that one can also make this vocational training work accompanied in order to obtain nursing staff. A clarification as to the situation now to be decided in medical practice and the testing of risk patients: This is only a matter of being able to test patients with a risk diagnosis asymptomatically: being able to and not obliged to test, I say, because the impression has been raised that you are going to the doctor and getting – so the mode of expression – was “missing” a test. This does not happen, of course, against the consent of the patient or the patient, that is a voluntary matter. Then it was said that the extension of the COVID-19 Act and the opportunities it entails will continue to maintain a kind of forced regime, as I should say, and the government will permanently abuse its powers. – That is not the case alone, because every single regulation that has been adopted – almost every one – has been subject to a review by the Constitutional Court and the measures, as you all know – the findings you know – have been confirmed by the Constitutional Court, in the broadest areas, into the then Lockdown measures. On the subject of compulsory powers, I would like to hold on to one thing, concerning: Since I took up this office, the vaccination obligation and the quarantine regime have been abolished. I know that this is a clear relief of so-called forced measures and not an intensification. For the abolition of quarantine measures, I have been massively beaten by certain sides, including the indication that this will result in 100 000 new infections in the summer. There was nothing to see about that. We moved in the European section – and that was the reason for my decision. We have looked at ourselves very carefully: What is still being done in European countries? Who has what measures with what impact? We are in the same mood as the other European states. We are still testing – that is true – a lot compared to other European countries, also free of charge. Five antigen, five PCR tests are available free of charge – that in the direction of those factions who believe we are on the way to the blind. - That's not us! We have a very well developed system in Europe, starting from wastewater monitoring to other surveillance measures. We have also – and this has been addressed – significantly increased the delivery of drugs. This condition description regarding Paxlovid's delivery and other medications was still correct for June and July, not more than tenfold since July. In any case, this works far and significantly better. We now also have significantly increasing numbers of people who can be vaccinated. This is a good news, because it has something to do with immunity status. We are now back at 20,000 a week or about 100,000 a month. As far as the overall measures are concerned, that was our statement: We look at the further development, including the dynamics, and then make the decision whether we introduce a mask obligation and where at all – yes or no. This test is under way. We look closely at the development of the dynamics of the figures as a whole and will then decide. The last point, because this has also been raised, is the necessary reforms of health policy as a whole: Yes, it is true, of course, that there are a number of pressures in the health system, which have also been identified by the Court of Auditors reports which need to be addressed. You know as well as I do that it's the much-loved Driestirn needed to bring about changes: Federal Government, countries, social security in their respective responsibilities. One of the key points in the financial compensatory negotiations will be to ensure that we are reformed in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16751	The debate is closed, as there is no mention of this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[16:46:08]] 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2795/A by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012 (1718 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16791	We come to Agenda item 20. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16818	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! At this item on the agenda, I can refer to the Health Telecommunications Act. This is a federal law that deals with the data security measures relating to the processing of electronic health data. It is often thought that this is unspectacular – there are three paragraphs: §s 18, 24 and 26 that are changed – but in detail there are a few inside. That is why my group is also the one already in committee. No, and even today in plenary. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like to justify this, Minister of State. The first point is that the pharmacies should have the possibility and the right to make additions to vaccinations so that this also appears completely in the vaccination register. – That's right. We also want that to be the case. However, we do not want to see it in principle that they have had 2 hours to carry out this supplement – 2 hours of access to Austrian health data – and that should now be extended to 28 days. In our view, this is not appropriate, not proportionate and does not comply with the General Data Protection Regulation. Even if you have said that has been discussed with the Data Protection Authority, I still believe that from time to time it would be possible to set this period by one to two weeks, i.e. two weeks as sufficient. - That was the first point. Secondly, We do not see that liability should be transferred to the pharmacists and to the midwives, Mr. Federal Minister. In fact, we want a service site to come, as was previously thought, through which these supplements of the vaccinations should also be made in the final effect. Mr Federal Minister, the real problem is in detail. Today we heard from Dr. Brunner the budget speech: “Out of responsibility for tomorrow” Safe in the future”. . I refer to my colleague Jan Krainer, who mentioned that a lot of money is spent but is mis- spent. Now comes a point – I don't know if you're aware of it at all –: In the case of investigations today, I have found that this supplement in the electronic vaccination passport is not a cash benefit until now. That is, when Austrians go to pharmacies, go to doctors, go to midwives, pay for the first supplement of a vaccination 25 euros, for two vaccinations 35 euros and for further vaccinations plus conversation 45 euros. That's a list of recommendations that goes out, there's no cost recovery rule. If you want to adopt a law today, by which in the final effect the pharmacies add – for which we are – then we also want to know whether the pharmacies can demand these amounts in the future. Mr. Federal Minister, we are living in times of inflation. We know that many people don't know whether to heat or eat because they can't afford both things. Mr. Zanger said today that many no longer know if they can buy 15 Deca or 10 Deca sausages. [[Abg. Obernosterer: Here... Banana Republic...!]] What does the Federal Government do? – It forgets to arrange the cost reduction for the additions of the vaccinations to the vaccination register. Thus, all those who make contributions are privately liable and have to pay for it. This list of recommendations appears at the doctor's chamber. There's nothing similar for the pharmacists. However, if we do not arrange for this cost reduction to be taken over entirely by the federal government or by the SV, this is so that the Austrians are generally asked to pay the cash desk. [[Abg. Obernosterer: Ask the Wiener!]] That's your idea! This is your way to the future! This is your responsibility for tomorrow! – Please do not agree with us; as SPÖ, we will not agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16870	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Mr Drobits has indeed already done this: It is about giving both the pharmacists and the midwives in this country more opportunities, namely, more opportunities with regard to the post-vaccination of vaccinations in the E-Vacc. This is a great story so that we can see that this E-Vaccine is being filled accordingly, so that this previously handled yellow vaccine will one day really belong to the past. This requires places that can carry it. That is why we find it good and really fundamental that we take advantage of what we have in our country as a health service provider. These are the pharmacies, but they can also be midwives. They should be able to carry this, which should be able to validate it. That's what we can do. The other thing we can do today is to have longer access to e-medicine. We do not allow pharmacies to work in and out of their way, as they are just having fun – because this has just been a bit of the impression that came from the counternote of my previous speaker – but we allow them what is necessary, of which many pharmacists in this country have said: Please, allow us to access it for a longer time, so that we can keep an eye on the e-medication and act accordingly! – This is a great story from our point of view. The pharmacies are now taking a step – perhaps not a big step, but a step – further into the middle of our health care system, away from what some people like to see in detail: as packers and as executives of doctors. With this measure, you will become, as it were, a part of our health care system. However, I would also like to use my speech to contribute to the fact that we are all aware of what will be expected this autumn and winter. It will certainly be a challenging autumn this year, a challenging winter, not only because of the energy crisis that all of us are calling for, but also – I have just said it in my speech – because the pandemic is not over. We don't know what's still waiting for us. On the other hand, of course, we still have the influenza on the doorstep. I would ask all of you – here in the house, here at the gallery, but of course at home – to do so: Take advantage of the vaccinations offered by: there are, both against Covid and against influenza! Use the vaccinations against HPV! Against all kinds of diseases, there are very, very good protective vaccinations that help us to reduce the burden on our health care system, which will help us to keep our system healthy in total. Benefits Please ask for these offers and go to your family doctor, your family doctor in the morning and get advice on what vaccinations there is for you anyway! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16933	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16954	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! Appreciate listeners! Vaccines are absolutely part of the competence of pharmacists and midwives, so it is very obvious that the competence to register in the electronic vaccination passport is also enshrined in these professional groups. Because it has already been addressed today: What does a pharmacy require, what does a midwife need to have a 28-day access to the electronic health records? - Well, that's quite simple: If you are caring for a patient if you have a consultation when you are taking a medication and the patient has gone, and the next day he has a question about the regulation or the medications, then you have to be able to see what is in there, otherwise you cannot answer this question. This is why doctors Usus and law enshrine that a 28-day access time, including afterwards, exists in the health records. Therefore, other health professionals with similar advisory tasks should be allowed to access the electronic data for 28 days. We will support this. We think this is reasonable. We also see this as a first step towards the recognition of other health professions for their activities. In general, we should discuss what additional benefits other health professions could still provide in our system. The entry of already existing vaccinations is only a first small step. We are having a debate on whether at least fresheners can also be given by midwives or pharmacies, even for a long time. We are also in favour of this. It could go a lot further, because both the advice and care and support of chronically ill people and perhaps even up to the regulation of emergency medication in night services, we see a lot of possibilities that can still be provided by pharmacies or other health professionals – for example, the re-regulation of associational substances by nursing staff. Summa summarum, one can say that this is a useful and supportive initiative to amend the Health Telecommunications Act, and the FPÖ will support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e16993	Mrs Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17015	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Health! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The most important change in the Health Telematics Act is: Pharmacovigilants may not only take 2 hours into consideration, but up to 28 days after the e-card has been inserted. The Data Protection Authority sees this as safe, for a very specific reason: The pharmacists can't. see all Elga data. You have insight into the e-medicine and the vaccination register, in everything else not. It is adequate that they then have a long time for consulting their customers for comparison with previous medication. Also, the entry into the electronic vaccination, now for pharmacists and pharmacists and generally also for midwives, is a good step forward in filling the digital vaccination pass step by step. I think that these are two really very good measures. It is usually said that the law enters into force on the day of rallying. Here's a little different: This law is called 1. In January 2023, IT will also have the opportunity to re-examine and implement it accordingly. But it is also a good point for me to show how it is possible to continue filling digital databases, because they really give a lot of opportunities to gain insight into epidemiological events not only in the case of infectious diseases, but in general. This works best for data that simply emerge automatically from everyday life, such as e-medication: There's something going on, and the whole thing's already inside the appropriate electronic database. Detto will also be in the future for vaccinations. With Elga in Austria, we have a cross-border instrument that really allows structured access to various data bases in the interests of individual patients. E-medication is a good example. Further, however, it is also possible to access such data scientifically and gain substantial insights. I also refer to the Austrian Micro Data Center within the framework of the Federal Statistical Act, which enables scientific institutions to carry out meaningful investigations – with absolute respect for data security and data protection – and to gain new insights from existing data. I see these Extension of the Health Telecommunications Act simply as a further step to have more and more reliable data available. Finally, I come back to the pharmacies: In Austria, pharmacists have daily contacts with customers, patients and customers. We believe that this is a very important part of health care. Think back briefly about the strong times of the pandemic! The pharmacies were always there. In Austria, there is a comprehensive network of public pharmacies, no white spots, the question of night service and weekending is also settled throughout Austria, and this simply shows how important these facilities are. I can tell you that we support the fact that public pharmacies, this whole system in Austria, continue to find stable framework conditions, and I would like to thank all those who work in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17072	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17093	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! As we are talking today about adapting to the Health Telecommunications Act, You tell me a few words about the electronic vaccination: He's very important, and it's a good law that we created the E-Imppass. We all know that the vaccine in paper form was often incomplete and was also lost, and so it was not always quite clear what protection someone still has. In particular, the determination of the vaccination rate for lack of data base was not possible. In terms of public health, it is of course important to have a database to respond quickly to events. Thus, technological development in the collection of vaccinations was a necessity. This also makes it easier to avoid multiple vaccinations and make vaccinations more visible. The current revision of the Health Telecommunications Act means that the pharmacists can now also submit vaccinations that have already been administered and have been documented in writing. It also provides that the access of pharmacists to Elga will be extended in time: Until now, they can access the medication data and the central vaccination register for two hours, and this should be extended to 28 days in the future. The restriction on midwives to follow only certain vaccinations is no longer applicable. In view of the fact that the technical conditions for this need to be created, the law does not enter into force on the first day of the year. January 2023 in force. Finally, I would like to thank the pharmacists, the midwives and all the health professionals for their contribution to the success of the central vaccination register and, of course, I would like to thank them for their advice on how important the vaccinations are, and to encourage them to have vaccinations carried out. – Thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17130	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. Then I should like to put the votes back to the end of the negotiations on the agenda items of the Committee on Health. [[17:03:44]] 21. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1657, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Dentist Law and the Dentist Chamber Law (1719 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17165	We come to Agenda item 21. There was no oral reporting. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens and here in the house up on the gallery! What's this about? – It is about various changes in the dental law or the dental chamber law. They have become necessary on the one hand because there is a VfGH knowledge to be implemented, which has also been the content of the government template. Another reason why we are innovation here today is a rather unpleasant reason or an unpleasant occasion. If you remember: ==References== There was a unanimous decision here in the House on November 2020, a motion for a resolution on orthodontics, namely the introduction of a specialist in orthodontics. After this joint motion for a resolution, it took some time for the ministry to develop a draft and then forward it to us. That's what we've got on the 8th. In June 2022, he was consulted jointly in the Health Committee and then decided unanimously. ==References== In June, we decided unanimously here in the House, in the National Council, on this proposal for the introduction of the specialist in orthodontics. ==References== It was then decided unanimously by the Federal Council for Orthodontics. That is, if you want to do so, all the bodies involved were unanimously of the opinion that it is a good thing, it is a happening It is a matter of setting up the specialist in orthodontics here in Austria and of deciding on the legal framework for this. Only the city of Vienna, the country of Burgenland and the country of Carinthia were of the opinion: No, we don't like that! – Shortly before the end of the possible opposition period, they have objected to this law – two countries of it unfounded, one country has given a short explanation – and that is why we need to take back today the relevant provisions that would have been intended for the introduction of this orthodontic specialist. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, watchers at home in front of the screens! In fact, I think it is quite a favor to this House and the bodies concerned that we are going here and that unanimous decisions taken unanimously by the National Council, by the Federal Council, with a pretext that in reality does not exist, only because, as the city of Vienna in the specific case, one has exactly one, as one says so beautifully in Vienna, with the Chamber of Doctors, that one carries it out in this way. I think it is actually a naughtiness, and it is a rhythm towards these bodies which we represent here too. What I would like, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, to address social democracy: Please talk to your colleagues in Carinthia, Vienna and Burgenland so that we can save ourselves something like this in the future! Then: The alleged reason given why opposition was opposed was apparently so important that no one of you knew about it. Neither in the National Council nor in the Federal Council nor in the Health Committee did any of you know about it. On the day when the first opposition is coming out, you were all totally surprised that there was now an opposition. This may not even have been as important as it was then obviously dealt with. I wish we could save ourselves such a thing in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17247	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17268	Mr President. Federal Minister! Already exciting, when Mr Schallmeiner shifts the puss you have built to some countries – but well, we will take note of it as he has said. [[Abg. Maurer: You all agreed!]] [[Abg. Loacker: You agreed!]] – Wait a minute, Mr Loacker, give a rest with the calls! [[Abg. Soundmeiner: What does “a rest ” mean?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Loacker:... cannot remember your own consent!]] We don't do it with you either, so stick to it a little bit, because: What is it really about? [[Abg. Soundmeiner: You agreed!]] What is it really about this law? – The current novelle of the dental law and the dental chamber law is an implementation of the findings of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 17th century. ==References== [[Abg. Maurer: Have we not read it through, or what!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner: You did not read it clearly!]] As a result, a novel was made, and with regard to this novel, the city of Vienna has already pointed out in its opinion: If that's not in it, she'll object. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: But you have agreed. Agreed in all bodies!]] – Yes, once again – listen! –: You've made a punch, and you don't need to talk out, and the story's done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner: But you have agreed. That was your wish, you just agreed!]] That's where you can say what you want! [[Abg. Soundmeiner: You have no idea where you agree everywhere!]] Push remains Push, and you did it. But what else would it have been about? - It's just that you see what you've done. You would have done one thing in this amendment to the law: to change the decision-making capacity of the Federal Committee. That means that you have the majority of the weighted votes there. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: No, that's not inside!]] This means that the representation of only four federal states by weighting the votes, namely the number of heads represented, would have already had the necessary quota for decision in the Federal Committee. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Have you not read through what you should decide today?]] Only on the basis of the opinions of the many dentists who have been received have you withdrawn it from the committee, and that is why the whole thing is gone. But you wanted to push it against the majority of dentists, and that's exactly what makes you permanent. – Mr. Schallmeiner, you can get out of there and always justify that all the others have blamed you for doing these measures, you make these laws. [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Sorry, you have agreed!]] This is Push, and Push remains Push.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17535	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17556	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm baff, how to twist things, dear colleague Keck. That's all I want to say. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the revision of the dental law. But I would also like to reflect briefly on the Covid situation in a few words. The revision of the dental law was made necessary by a VfGH knowledge. If you want to establish a connection between politics and dentists, I think of the saying of a friend of your dentist who said to me: A firmly sitting tooth replacement and a loose mouthwork do not exclude each other. He also mentioned: Smile is the most elegant way to show competitors the teeth. I'll make an effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about? – It is about the fact that the existing regulations of certain tasks have not been announced with the consent of the countries – we have already heard it – the leadership of the dentist list, for example – and this should now be corrected. However, countries have also called for certain legal quality assurance measures. That's okay, too. We have already mentioned the specialist dentist orthodontics – he was unanimously decided by the National Council before the summer. It was also strange and annoyed for me that then three SPÖ-led federal states did not agree and the law could not be declared. The assessment phase would have lasted long enough. With many dentists, however, something different has led to toothache, namely this original proposal in the government template that the Federal Committee of the Dentists should orient the presence quo at the voting weight. This would have led to two to three voting-weight federal states being able to determine all the others. This passus is now absent for several reasons: On the one hand, this new regulation was not under review, on the other hand it was criticised, and it would also be was an exception among all chambers. There is a need for further discussion here. However, the amendment was also unanimously adopted by the Health Committee with the amendments, and I hope that this will be done in plenary. Let's go to the current Covid situation. As a result, I am very surprised that many of the increasing numbers of covid patients and hospital patients are now surprised. It is precisely what we all expected. The Minister of Health has provided with this variant management plan, which we also support. Why do the numbers rise again and why do more suffer? – There's a cause research, and there's a lot of things coming together: We have more contacts than in the summer, which is clear – schools are open, end of holiday time, events, full offices –, changed environmental influences – September was relatively cold –, increased stay in interiors, increased virus spread and also decreasing immunization – if you have been vaccinated half a year or more, the immune protection decreases. I hope that the overload of intensive care stations is no longer a matter. The milder omicron variants help us. In my opinion, the main problem, which we have already discussed today, will be the shortage of personnel in the medical and nursing sectors. We will experience a lot more in the next few weeks and months. The stations already have to be closed because of the shortage of personnel and the performance has to be reduced. Already in normal condition, the personnel situation in the health sector is very tense, but we react with this care programme. Then the flu comes along, infectious diseases. So the shortage of staff in the medical, caregivers will still worry us. But the good thing is: Anyone can help to flatten the wave. We have just, as I have said, provided for the variant management plan, have sufficient high-effective vaccines and also medications. So, as it is now, it's not a real surprise. Any person may contribute: Switch on the brain, activate the mind of the house, use the mask usefully, refresh the vaccinations – it could go as easily as you want, and where a will is, is also a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17640	Mr Schalmeiner, for the ‘political dementia’, I give a call for an order. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is no need for approval or rejection of calls for regulations. Mrs Seidl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17681	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen on the screen! Mr Schallmeiner has already said a lot about the law on dentistry, which I would like to stress, but perhaps he wants to explain again in my words, because what has happened is indeed a monsterity. You really have to let it go on the tongue. Mr Keck, then, to make himself here and act like the SPÖ has nothing to do with it, you don't have to do that. [[Abg. Lercher: That's right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you not in the state government in Vienna?]] There were three federal states that tipped this law. – Mr Belakovich speaks all the time, I can't focus, but that's all right. [[Abg. Belakovich: I think so.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... You are also in the government in Vienna!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] – Well, have other federal states done the same, even tipped this law? - Yes. The FPÖ does not speak up, so it probably finds what went down there totally okay. Dear SPÖ, you have degraded Parliament to statistics because you were unable to talk to your federal states about this bill or because the laws were not read. Whoever can read is indeed clearly in advantage. In summer, to decide unanimously in the National Council and in the Federal Council to bring it back here later, because three federal states have spoken against this law, although they have not spoken out in the review procedure, is already a strong piece. I think it is significant for what happens in Austria not only once but very often in the legislative procedures. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and the Deputies Lukas Hammer and Schallmeiner.]] The fact that countries don't even really justify this blockade, but say: Well, actually, we don't really want to do that, so we don't like it!, that's really, really special. If this goes on in Austria – this is not the only law in which this is the case – we really do not need to wonder if people out there are rightly asking the question: Why is everything taking so long? Why is everything so slow and why is it decided in the backrooms by any SPÖ state governments, which laws are passed? [[Abg. Belakovich:... Coalition in Vienna!]] Finally, it is now the case that we do not have a pine orthodontics law again, but that we now have to fix the proposal. We need to find an intermediate solution until we can make the whole package happen again, and that obviously has a time-limit. We are the last in Europe to have no such law. We really have this specialist topic on the agenda as the last country. This alone is once again an award for us and for our legislation. In that respect, I would like the review procedures to be taken seriously in the future, that Members here speak to Members in their federal states, that Members who vote should also read and know what they are voting on, and not say in retrospect that they did not know that they were not to blame, that they were the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17785	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As already agreed, we shall put the votes at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[17:18:14]] 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2714/A(E) by Mr Fiona Fiedler, Mr Bed, Mr Josef Smolle, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Mr Colleagues on music therapy in hospitals and health facilities (1720 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17827	We come to Agenda item 22. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e17854	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! With the proposal of the government parties and NEOS, music therapy is to be established in essential health institutions and hospitals. Many questions arise: What does the concept of essential health facilities refer to? What are the health facilities? What do the countries say that music therapy should also be offered in hospitals? In addition, it is open: What about the other important therapies? Are these also being expanded? I'm thinking about psychotherapy. We know that we still have extreme gaps in the existing therapy offerings – psychotherapy, physiotherapy, logo therapy, ergotherapy – and it would be very important to expand these offers throughout the area and make them available to a sufficient extent instead of taking on a new therapy, namely music therapy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also true that the concept of music therapists is not subject to any legal protection in the past. It is not known whether the responsibility for selecting qualified therapists is to be imposed on the patient. It would be important, therefore, to secure this term in its quality in order to ensure quality therapy. In our opinion, however, there are more urgent problems in our health system than in introducing music therapy, such as: When will the end of the two-class medicine finally come? When is there a uniform performance catalogue for all health insurance institutions? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Who has always put the Minister of Health? Was that Mr. Stöger, the Minister of Health? Or the Rendi car was that!]] When is there finally a comprehensive psychotherapy for all? When will the clinical psychologist:in and also health psychologists be included in the health insurance service catalogue? To all these pressing problems, however, the Federal Government is silent. It has no solution. We shall therefore reject this request and I shall table the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18004	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18028	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and at home in front of the screens! Front: Of course, I also take back the concept of ‘political dementia’ with regrets. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] He was probably guilty of the debate, but I'm just annoyed by simply wiping things away and pretending as if you had no responsibility here as a parliamentary group. Whether it be, we're talking about music therapy, we're just talking about what's just been put to the point: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The application Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. To do here as if the music therapy had no evidence or the music therapy would be anything completely removed or dissociated, however, from my point of view is rather incorrect and does not actually do the seriousness of the matter a great favor. Above all, this mutual calculation with other forms of therapy and with other questions, especially in the field of mental health, I think is comprehensible – because it is a very nice populist approach, as we have been used to by social democracy lately – but it is not really material in the sense. Of course, we can also use the whole thing to talk about how it is currently looking at psychotherapy and the question of the supply of psychotherapy or offers for mental health. On the one hand, there is the Healthy project from the crisis with a volume of 13 million euros this year. We are working on the fact that we can continue to do so in the future. On the other hand, we are working precisely on this academicisation of psychotherapy, so that there are quality standards in this country, namely international comparable quality standards, so that at the same time we can finally give psychotherapists an academic, low-level training offer. The training will take place within the framework of a regular study and will not, as now, be offered by private associations by some 6 000 euros per semester. So we are really working to bring this country more into the picture, to ensure that there is a proper supply for mental health. As if this were not going to happen, it is comprehensible as already said, because it depends on the location and position – so you can spread a little populism there. But if you were to listen to the Minister of Health last week when answering the questions in the general debate, you would know that on all these issues, have just been thrown up, working with high pressure.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18085	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18106	Mr President! Estimated Minister! A good thing about the music is that when she meets you, you don't feel pain anymore. – A famous musician once said that, and there is a lot of truth behind it. There are now, of course, studies on music therapy in health care, and the scientific evidence is naturally given. Especially in traumata, a lot is processed with creative therapies, especially with music therapy. There is good progress in autistic behaviour in terms of social behaviour and communication – both are qualities that are very important for the future way of life. Success in therapy is also available in cancer patients. It may not be possible to imagine that at the moment, but only through the music the body relaxes, so that pain therapy takes better, and the fears are also relieved. Of course, there is progress in depression, in the case of anxiety neuroses, but in the case of dementia patients and stroke patients. That is why we support this request today. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still so much open in the health sector, but the offer is not sufficient or the costs must be borne by the patients themselves. We've heard it today and I'm going to join you here: physiotherapy, logoology, psychological support are now only a few areas, but also these should be offered as of course and, of course, also by the health care system. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Unfortunately, there are too few cash-places and too high a restraint, so it will not be privately manageable for a long time. That is, there is also an urgent need for action. A very important topic that has just been mediated is the mother-child-pass examinations. Mr Minister, the parents are currently very uncertain and they are worried because the childcare allowance is directly linked to the mother-child-pass examinations. What happens if you can't agree on the tariff with the doctor's chambers? I therefore ask you, together with the Minister of Family, that you, too, make an active contribution and cooperate in a solution, because music therapy is a piece of puzzle in health, but, Mr Minister, please also take care of the other gaps!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18151	Mrs Scheucher-Pichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18173	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am deeply convinced that creative elements in psychotherapy work have a very, very important meaning, especially in order to establish a psychotherapeutic relationship and make a healing therapeutic intervention possible. Experienced psychologists and, above all, psychotherapists are therefore very often using such creative therapeutic approaches to reach the patient individually. For example, I call the psychodrama an experience-oriented method of action with role-playing and all possible or catathyme image life – this is also creative access that is taken very often. Then there is also music therapy, which is very well - that is now addressed to my previous speakers:innen - regulated in a music therapy law and is also a recognized method. Although it is not so established, I personally consider it a very important and very good approach and have personally had very good experience with it in my work. That is why we are very happy to support this request from the colleague, Mr Fiedler, to continue to do so and to make music therapy even more known and established. The other treatments are also well established in the hospitals. It is scientifically proven that the use of music has a therapeutic effect. It was already in ancient times so that one has said that music has a cleansing effect on the soul and on the character. However, there are always different approaches: In the end, each psychotherapist must decide for himself what form of access he chooses. The fact is, however, that music therapy should be strengthened in health care and also in health care facilities, because it is a valuable approach and because it would also be important as a fixed base offer. Therefore, it is also the goal to achieve the strengthening of the legally recognised professional form of music therapy and the inclusion in the structural plans of health. I also do not fully understand the SPÖ's request, because it is quite clear in the health and health insurance law – I prefer that, but I have looked at it extra – that sufficient clinical psychological, health-psychological and also adequate care for psychotherapy needs to be offered. Unfortunately, music therapy is not in place, so we have also decided to support this request. It has already been said by my previous speaker that in many areas very, very good successes are achieved, especially in the work of children and young people; also in the treatment of trauma – I mention this because it has not yet been mentioned, I have worked myself with heavily traumatized people for over 20 years, and there is often such an access to the only one before we are In any case, language can work – even in the field of the care of old people – dementia has already been called, age depression – in palliative and hospice work – also a very important area. Because you meant, Mrs Nussbaum, we are silent about reform in the field of psychotherapy: No, no, no, no, And I'm just saying a few more words: We are in the middle of it – the Federal Minister has also outlined this in the last Health Committee. However, the government has already clearly stated in the government's programme before the pandemic that psychotherapy should be expanded as cash benefits, and – it has already been mentioned – the ÖGK has provided 30 million euros, now during this pandemic to create fully funded treatment places. We have initiated the great project Healthy from the crisis, which has arrived very well and which is also extended with 13 million, especially for children and young people and much more. But I also say: It will be important to ensure the care and interaction of the various areas within the framework of the reorganisation: the psychiatry, the ambulances, the psychosocial services, the established psychotherapists and psychologists, the psychiatrists and so on. And music therapy should also be an important part of it. I am pleased that today's acceptance of psychotherapy is much higher than ten or 15 years ago – that is, I think, something very, very pleasing – and in training, which is now going towards university education, we also have to take very strong account of the very good and highly qualified training associations. It must not happen that the practical parts, the self-experience, the group's self-experience, the work under Supervision is too short. There too, however, the Minister has said that there are these talks. I also think that is very, very important. That is, negotiations are under way, we are working on it, and I am delighted when we come to good solutions for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18232	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18253	Mr President. Mr. Minister! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Hans Christian Andersen must have said: “Only the tones are able to solve the thought puzzles that are often awakened in our soul.” That's exactly why music is not only one of many beloved everyday companions, with whom we can influence our moods, but also an important instrument if we want to learn how to deal with ourselves better. Since 2008, there has been a law on music therapy. The opportunities for access are intrusive for many, but above all the treatment is expensive. Especially in trauma therapy, in child and youth psychology, in oncology, in hospice care or also in addictions, music therapy shows very good treatment success and should therefore be better used. In addition, she helps to escape from daily life in the hospital and focus on something different than medication intake, pain and anxiety. In Austria, in the health system, we often have the problem that interests of different professional groups and financial institutions are being played against each other. The aim should be to ensure that the patient and his best possible care are always the focus. Especially in the field of mental care in recent years, we have seen the consequences of our previous failure very strongly, and we would not have needed the pandemic for that. 40 percent of all early pensions are for mental reasons. We have increasing numbers of depressions and eating disorders among young people, and we need young people in particular to shape the future, reform the state, improve the economic location and put all of us in fear of going down. Especially in these times of crisis, we must stand together and therefore also see mental health as a relevant part of health. With this request, we want to anchor at least one additional treatment option in hospitals and thus improve how treatments are coordinated. I am particularly pleased that we have managed to make a joint request with the government parties from a single request and that we have seen a little more cooperation here than usual. In the interests of patients, but of course also for more efficient, patient and personal-friendly systems in health care, we hope that we will be able to deepen these cooperations and thus promote sustainable reforms and that there will also be broad support from SPÖ and FPÖ for this request. To alleviate the concerns of the SPÖ: It is intended to be incorporated into the Objective Control Commission, and it is in this area that the countries have the opportunity to contribute. And: Music therapy has its own professional law. Because music is my personal soul bread, I now close with Platon: “Music and rhythm find their way to the most secret places of the soul.” – Thank you. [[Also performing the thanks in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18308	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – I assume that is not the case either. Since NEOS asked for a break for 10 minutes, because time is still needed for the preparation of the Croquis, I interrupt the session for 10 minutes. [[17:36:31]] [[The sitting was suspended at 5.36 p.m. and resumed at 5.47 p.m.]] [[17:47:43]] Vote on agenda items 15 to 22
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18357	I'll start the interrupted session again. I can ask the parties if we can vote: Green? NEOS? FPÖ? ÖVP? – Well, then we come to the votes now. I should like to point out that we have a number of votes and we will try to explain everything very detailed and clear. Vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, together with the title and receipt in 1713 of the Supplements. Those who are in favour of this, I ask for a corresponding rally of consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who does so in third reading will again be asked for a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 16: Draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act, including title and receipt in 1714 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent at third reading, I ask him again for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 17: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1715 of the supplements. Whoever does this is asked for approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Agenda item 18: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1716 of the supplements. – This is also the majority, so the request is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1717 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Draft Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act, including the title and receipt in 1718 of the Supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – In turn, this is the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft in third reading, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign. – This is the same voice behaviour. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Proposal concerning a federal law with which the dental law and the Dentists' Chamber Act, together with the title and entrance in 1719 of the Supplements. I am looking for the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who does this in third reading will again be asked for a corresponding sign – this too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 22, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1720 of the Supplements on 'Music therapy in hospitals and health care facilities'. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[266/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Safering the necessary psychotherapy offer'. Whoever is in favour of this, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This is largely rejected. [[Abg. Loacker shows with his hands the sign for time-out.]] Before we come to the vote on Agenda items 2 to 14, I shall briefly interrupt the sitting. We must give ourselves that much time in the democratic process. The meeting was suspended for 2 minutes. [[17:52:21]] [[The sitting was suspended at 5.52 p.m. and resumed at 5.54 p.m.]] [[17:54:11]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 14
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e18580	I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. I ask you again: Are everyone here, can we continue? We now come to the vote on Agenda items 2 to 14, which I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 2: Draft price relief package Part II in 1662 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, Mr Bernhard, colleagues, and two requests for a separate vote by Mr Krainer and by Mr Doublebauer. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 2 as amended by the Government template. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of the Z3 in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure. 1 introduced. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a corresponding will-consistency. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 5 lit. a. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I should like to ask for the corresponding vigour of will. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 5 lit. b. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 5 lit. b. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is also the minority, rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I can ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 5 lit. c to f as amended by the Government template. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 Z 6. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is also the minority, rejected. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 6. Who's for it? – This is also the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority accepted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Z 7 to 10 in Art. 1 introduced. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval or rejection. – That is unanimous. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 Z 11 § 124b Z 412. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the majority accepted. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 11 § 124b Z 413. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 Z 11 § 124b Z 413. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 Z 11 § 124b Z 414. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. Vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government template: I can ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 2 C 1 as well as the withdrawal of point 2. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever is for it, I may ask him to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 2 as amended by the Government template. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 3 into Article 3. Who is for that, I seek his consent. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 as amended by the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hubert Fuchs, colleagues, on the need to improve measures to combat ‘cold progression’. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Energy Cost Compensation Act 2022, together with the title and receipt in 1703 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of it, I may request his consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – Even at third reading the same voting behaviour, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brückl, colleagues, on the extension of the rightful persons in the field of energy costs. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Pension Adjustment Act 2023 in 1721 of the Supplements. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Loacker. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned and on the request for separate voting, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote. Deputies August Wöinger, Mag. Mr Koza, colleagues, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 1 Z 4 § 775 para. 1 to 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 4 § 775 para. 4 and 5 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. Members of the Loacker, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 6 of Article 775 in Article 1. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I may request the consent or rejection of this kind. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 1 Z 4 § 776. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The same Members also have an amendment or amendment concerning amendment in accordance with Art. 2 Z 4 § 401 para. 1 to 3 as well as the insertion of a new paragraph 4 into Article 401. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 4 § 401 para. 5 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here is asked for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Members of the Loacker, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 6 of Article 401 in Article 2. Whoever is for this is asked for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I may request a corresponding vote. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 2 Z 4 § 402. Whoever is for this is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 3 Z 4 § 395 para. 1 to 3. Those who support this will be asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Separate vote on Rule 3 Z 4 § 395 para. 4 and 5 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Members of the Loacker, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 6 of Article 395 in Article 3. Whoever is for this, I can ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I can ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 3 Z 4 § 396. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 5 § 41 para. 8, Art. 6 § 11 para. 9 and Art. 7 § 37 para. 8 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who signals consent to this? – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to the draft law, for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the General Social Security Act, including title and receipt in 1722 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I may first, within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I should now like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in agreement with this draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I also expressly define the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should also like to ask who agrees to this at the third reading. – In turn, this is the majority. I can also expressly say again that the necessary constitutional two-thirds majority exists. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1723 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1724 of the supplements. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1725 of the supplements. Who's doing that? – Also the majority and thus adopted. Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1726 of the supplements. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. We come to Agenda item 10: Draft cost relief package III in 1663 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request. There is also a desire for separate vote by Mr Loacker. I therefore proceed in such a way that I first vote on the parts affected by the supplementary request and the request for separate vote, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally vote on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. We shall be voting separately on Articles 1, 2 and 3 as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Members of Parliament, Mr Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional amendment concerning the insertion of points 3a and 3b in Art. 5 Z 3. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Whoever is for this is asked for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask him to signal approval. – The draft law has now been adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wimmer, colleagues, on the package of measures against the risk of poverty of the unemployed and their families. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to Agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the Student Aid Act, including the title and receipt in 1679 of the Supplements. I can do the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of seeking a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading. – The same voting behaviour: The draft law was also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1680 of the supplements. Whoever does this, may show it with a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Agenda item 13: Request of the same committee to take note of its report 1681 of the supplements. Report 1681. – Also accepted by the majority. Agenda item 14: Draft concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and other laws, in 1682 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate votes by Mr Belakovich. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 3 and 6, Art. 4 Z 5 and Art. 5 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This has now been adopted unanimously. We shall come to the third reading. Anyone who accepts this draft at third reading will be asked for a corresponding sign. – This has been accepted by the majority at the third reading. [[18:13:36]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the motion for a resolution 2829/A by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Lukas Hammer, colleagues on a federal law approving the Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, and the Federal Act on an Energy Cost Grant for Energy-intensive Enterprises (UEZG) (1732 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on Amendment No 2838/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on Hardening Funds (1734, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19278	We come to the agenda items 23 and 24 on which the debates are being held under one. I should like to welcome the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kocher, to us. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19314	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Doppelwumms has called the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz the project of the German Ample Coalition, serious for the whole industry, industry, trade, trade, private households, against the price. And the German Federal Government is doing exactly what we have long called for, namely putting a lid on it. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards ÖVP]] Who is our most important trading partner? – Germany. Is there a limit? – No, we are in the same internal market and we are in the same monetary union. If in Germany the plans which the Commission has now presented to the Government, with 7 cents on the kilowatt hour in the field of gas for industry and 14 cents for the others, are implemented, we have a veritable problem. [[Abg. Haubner: We really have one!]] I say it to you, ladies and gentlemen, and as a witness, I call on the President of the Chamber of Commerce Harald Mahrer (keeping a document in height) who is writing us today – in the “Small Newspaper” for reading – to the main book – but actually to his own party, because most of the ÖVP –: “The Germans can then calculate with cheaper prices more than others.” And: “It’s about thousands of jobs in Austria and an export volume of more than 50 billion euros”. Therefore, Mahrer requires: “If there is no European solution and the Germans are going through it, Austria must be prepared to follow it very quickly.” And you should see this common book entry, ladies and gentlemen, especially you of the ÖVP, reading and implementing and not presenting something like today, but something that works in the same form and prevents Austria from being deindustrialized and having all the disadvantages. We do not take this responsibility away from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With us, there are thousands of jobs, and we have to do what you've somehow agreed to, and we've got to do not do what you've been doing, one-sided only for the electricity, but really act and put a lid on it. I understand: We have demanded it, and therefore you believe you can't do it, but in this case you have to do what we have long called for: Put the lid on top, limit costs and make sure that these businesses and these jobs are still available tomorrow, so that otherwise we do not have an industrial desert, where, subsequently, all the surrounding subcontractors and, subsequently, commercial and trade figures on it. Do it! Follow what Mahrer says, follow what the opposition says, and make a lid! End with politics, always only to grant subsidies instead of cutting prices, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19360	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19394	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house! Mr Matznetter, it is quite nice and beautiful if you say that we should look after it, just: What are we supposed to do with this regulation? – The Germans have not yet decided anything. The Germans have a proposal from an expert committee which is discussed very differently in the German Government and also at EU level. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot therefore check because there is no regulation because there is nothing to follow, because we have done a great deal already, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I've already emphasized it today: We have taken a lot of money into our hands in the last few years of the crisis as a whole to accompany entrepreneurs through this difficult time and to secure jobs. And I think one of us is: We want to keep the economy competitive and to secure jobs in our country. In this we agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also in Austria thank God for an economic growth of 4.8 percent. [[Abg. Scroll: 0,2 next year!]] If we look at Germany, we look a little worse. That makes us thinkful, and that is why I believe that we are on the right track with our programme. Federal Minister Brunner already defined it today: “whatever it takes”. – Yes, but in the Brunner’s definition, that does not mean “cost what it wants”, but: providing the necessary! – Ladies and gentlemen, we do. That is why I warn – Prof. Felbermayr is doing this – of a subsidy race between countries. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have taken the path in Austria that we are saying what we can do at national level, we are doing so, and the European level needs it for the major challenges. We are all called upon to move all the parties in this House, their political groups at European level, to ensure that these common solutions exist, such as decoupling electricity and gas prices or purchasing together at the gas. These are the measures we need at European level. There the Social Democrats, as well as the Liberals and, of course, the Liberals, are required at any time. [[Abg. Worm: You have rejected our request! We have tabled a request that you have rejected!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the next two days, we will adopt very important laws that reduce the burden on entrepreneurs and households. On the one hand, we are deciding today to grant energy to entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, the power price brake for households tomorrow. After all, this is a total volume of 5 billion euros. [[Abg. Kassinger breathes out with a loud breath.]] In this respect too, this is an important and right package. Funding through this energy cost grant is part of the discharge programme. The aim was to reduce the increased prices of electricity, natural gas and fuel, so that the economic location in the crisis could also be stabilised and, above all, to ensure our competitiveness, which is particularly important to us. Ladies and gentlemen! While the Germans are discussing any proposals made by expert committees, we are already deciding on concrete implementation measures here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What exactly does our grant model look like for entrepreneurs? – First of all: It is about a volume of 1.3 billion euros. Secondly, The condition is that energy costs of 3 percent and more of the production value. Thirdly, There are four different levels of funding aimed at size, turnover, earnings and consumption of the company. Fourth: There are simplified flat-rate grants for small enterprises with turnover up to EUR 700 000. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can deal with national challenges with these packages – today with the energy cost grant for entrepreneurs and tomorrow with the electricity price brake for households. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] However, it is equally important that we at European level become even faster and more efficient. I know it's not easy, but we're full of that in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19479	Mr Peter Wurm has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19504	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Mr Haubner from the ÖVP! It is our worst fears and also our predictions that have occurred for two years now, I think, here in the House time and again. It threatens stagflation in Austria, i.e. stagnation and inflation. This has also been seen more or less by the ÖVP or it has always been said: That's not coming. - Now we have it. The economy is massively in the corner, and it is felt in the face of a sharp decline in consumption. You can also see it in the construction area, where the order situation in or after winter is already very mau. That is, we have problems in the economy both on the left and on the right. That's why maybe again on the explanation: We are discussing today the Energy Cost Grant Act, as it is a bit complicated. It is a question of giving more or less support to the economy – in about 1.3 billion euros – in order to dispel the worst energy price explosions. The Minister, in cooperation with Mrs Energieminister Geessler, should implement this by means of regulations. There are all alarm bells with us, because if you know Mrs. Weessler, what kind of ideas they have with: Put the lid on the pot, and: the couch turned away from the heater, then I was more slender for the economy and for the population in Austria. We also have a very concrete history, which very probably concerns an economic sector – it is gastronomy, hotel industry – massively. This is about the ominous heating swab – how it is so beautiful – which is now very important for the gastronomy and hotel industry, which Mrs. Geessler now obviously wants to turn off in general or from 10 am. In the present situation, we think this is more than counterproductive and we also want to propose a bar. I hope that at least the ÖVP with Minister Kocher is reasonable enough, but we have already experienced a lot in terms of regulations. As a matter of principle, we want to ensure that these heating swabs remain in the gastronomy, hotel industry, that every entrepreneur can decide for himself and has no disadvantages in the case of any promotions, whether the heating swams are operated with gas or with electricity. In this case, we also see a very massive occasion to discuss the old non-smokers regime once again. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is to say, we also want to make sure that, if this ban or the regulation by Mrs Minister comes, at least in the gastronomy and hotel industry of the smoking area is re-opened on a voluntary basis, so that smokers do not have to stand outdoors in the dark and in the cold winter. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19748	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19772	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and dear spectators – also at home, of course! Yes, we are discussing support measures here in difficult times. We agree that the times are difficult, but to the how there are very different approaches. I'm convinced: What we're planning here will help companies massively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should like to address two points. One is the support for businesses and the other – still retroactively seen on Corona – the support for employees. On support for farms: We also agree that energy costs are currently one of the biggest problems – or the biggest problem – and I have to say: A little higher energy prices than at times when prices were extremely low also mean that we limit ourselves to consumption, it also has a control effect. But yes, we agree: At present, prices are irrational and we cannot create this – neither the households nor the companies. Tomorrow we decide almost a electricity price cap, i.e. a brake for households, and today support for companies. The EU has given us what we can do to directly grant grants of around 30 percent of the additional costs of companies. They'll get it. [[Abg. Scroll: voucher policy! A voucher policy is that!]] I mention concrete examples, because it always means that businesses can simply pass on the costs and increase prices. No, they can't, because they're on the one hand in international competition – for example, Lenzing as a paper producer – but also in a biosuper market I recently visited, I was told that customers can no longer pay what they need to demand. So there is a problem, and they need support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, there is a framework of the EU that it sets out to us, and it is balanced from my point of view. The company is thus helped, but not overwhelmingly, but with what they need. In concrete terms, energy-intensive plants are therefore supported. They are replaced by 30 percent of the additional costs. Very high It is also subsidies – and this is always a demand from various institutions – only in the case of losses. That is, the instrument itself stimulates savings, because 70 percent of the additional costs the company has to pay – as has been said, in some cases only in the case of losses. Another important point is an energy audit. That is, if very high subsidies are paid, then the requirement is that companies should make an energy audit, so see where they can optimize their energy consumption. Nor do we want the energy to be heated out of the window and the taxpayers to pay for it. The famous heat-swimmerl: No, we cannot seriously oblige taxpayers to pay for this type of energy consumption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also unnecessary energy consumption, such as lighting at night, does not have to be – even this is an edition – or that it is heated inside, but the doors are open outside – this also belongs to it. What was very important to me personally is that we take the small companies, and that happens. Small enterprises say that there is a simple and simple application for grants of EUR 300; it is possible to apply on a flat-rate basis. This means that there are subsidies for additional costs of 1 000 euros over the period February to September. It is therefore a very important support for small businesses. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But what is important to me is that these measures help in the short term. In the medium term, we need something more. In the medium term, we need to get the industry out of fossil energies, because then this dependence is reduced by the gas price or the electricity generated by gas. [[Abg. Scroll: We need to expand the renewables, so we need the laws to do so!]] That is to say, as we have heard today from the Minister for Finance, this transformation fund for industry, which is now available, is a very important step in getting out of this dependence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In connection with this amendment to the law, I have tabled the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are technical amendments to the second issue we are discussing today, which is a specific fund for small-scale hardening, which is more than a small number of employees. So while Corona was helping the company, we helped employees by means of short-time work, but those who were very few in number, especially in the arts and culture sector, in the free scene, were not yet helped. That is a great thanks to them for their work. – I ask for approval. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[18:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19941	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e19971	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We are in the greatest economic crisis in the history of the Second Republic, but what you have to say is that it has not fallen from heaven. It has not fallen from heaven that we have an 80 percent dependence on Russian gas, and that is also one of the reasons that is driving us now, so to speak, to also pay out subsidies and funds. I say it again: We are also in this situation, because ÖVP – the series are very illustrious – SPÖ politicians:in and, of course, also the FPÖ worked hard to systematically work on this dependence together with the Chamber of Commerce and a Clique by Putin-controlled managers. [[Abg. Kühberger: (to the bank series of NEOS significant) But there are no more!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now, of course, it is about being present and having to solve things. Now we are the first to say that energy-intensive companies also have to help, especially those who are in international competition and who, of course, also have major problems. Yes, we would have voted in favour of this, but what happened here is a classic regulation, as we have already had in the pandemic. It is simply poured over again with the big casting pot. I think it was Dr. Josef Taus who said: “I have the feeling that the government is concerned that there is a risk in the economy.” – I personally feel when I look at this federal government, especially in the energy cost grant as another example that it has been wrong. It is the perfect casting pot used again. It is again about pouring the same over all companies. There are, of course, these instruments, which Mrs Götze has declared, and these classifications, but ultimately there are enough companies that still have long-term contracts, gas contracts, electricity contracts that do not need the money. Of course, they're happy when they get it. There are others who need it very urgently, but, as has been said, it is most urgent from our point of view for energy-intensive companies in international exchanges. - That's one. The other is the framework of settlement. Even in this, you have not taken anything from the Covid crisis and learned nothing again. What now is the energy cost subsidy? He is paid out for February to September. All companies naturally ask themselves: How's it going? It costs almost 1.3 billion euros, maybe a little more, as you already hear. It is de facto no longer financeable; it is not financeable to bring forward such a model – you all know – yet it has been decided. What else did you do to add a little bit of chaos to the whole thing? – Well, it has to be billed by the end of the year. De facto must be settled by the end of December, otherwise it will no longer fit into the EU directives. We heard and talked about this regulation for the first time in June, I think. Now we have it in Parliament. It'll probably take until November until it's actually outside. Then, of course, all companies in this country will, because everyone who gets a little bit of something will come and try to deal with it. What does that mean? – They will all run to the AWS, if it is actually the AWS that makes the settlements. They will submit all applications by the end of December. The AWS will have to deal with it by the end of December. There are likely to be those who do not have the best tax advisors, that is, the smaller ones, then probably standing back. We have also seen this in the Covid crisis of often. We cannot accept this package for the many reasons mentioned above. Again, I would like to say it here: Of course, we are in favour of supporting companies, we are of course in favour of the fact that the energy-intensive companies in particular are now getting support; but that must be perfectly safe, that must be forward-looking and should simply not be a chaos like what you are doing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20020	Mr Martin Kocher has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20042	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All who watch and are there today! Of course, it is a difficult situation for companies – of course also for households, but now we are talking about companies. The energy market is in a critical situation. It is about the supply of energy, which is partly lacking, but of course it is also about prices, and that requires measures. This requires measures, first of all, top priority, to ensure energy supply, second, second priority, to break down these high prices and, third priority – and not to forget – and to do so in a massive way at European level – for a solution so that prices go down in the medium term and there is a decoupling of electricity and gas prices. That's a proposal we've been making for months. I believe that this would contribute substantially to the discharge, because I see – as do many other speakers in front of me – the competitiveness of the European industry at risk, and we have to do something about it. In this difficult situation, this energy cost grant is an opportunity to reduce short-term costs. Now we could discuss for a long time what opportunities exist at European level, whether it is a cover, whether it is not a cover, what the Germans are doing. It is clear that this energy cost grant is now coming, that it is also retroactively valid, and that in Germany there are still various possibilities to be discussed. We can also be compared with many other countries, but to accuse us of being slow is, I believe, not justified. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Anger: If you make it fast, it doesn't do anything!]] Of course, this is not a simple framework. This is based on the European short-term crisis framework. There are a number of rules which we have now outlined in the directives on the energy cost subsidy. We will also see how a possible gas price brake in Germany fits into this aid framework. That's what we'll see. It is energy intensive plants, at least 3 per cent of turnover must be energy costs, with exceptions from this 3 per cent limit for smaller plants. Furthermore, as mentioned above, there is a package promotion model for micro and small businesses, so that there is no bureaucracy either. There are four stages of promotion. Stage 1 to 400 000 euros deals with the energy forms of electricity, natural gas and fuels. There is also a lower limit of EUR 2 000; 30 percent of the cost increase in these forms of energy will be recoverable, i.e. sustainable. In Stages 2 to 4, more rules are added because they are higher amounts. We go up to 50 million euros in funding. Most of the farms, almost all but will be in stage 1. That is why this funding is, of course, particularly for SMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly affected by this disruptive price development or cost development. The rules are complex, I could talk about these rules for a very long time now. This also shows, in contrast to what has just been said, that the directive and this measure are very safe. Now we can discuss whether it may even be too easy to find, because it involves a certain amount of red tape. However, I am convinced that the AWS, the Austrian Economic Service Society, which will carry out the implementation of this energy cost grant, is well prepared and ensures this resolution in the necessary time. We really do not have to make the payment this year, but at least this year we have to deal with the requests. There will be a phase of registration there and then the application phase and support from the AWS in this application phase. The European Commission announced last week that it might extend this European crisis framework, which was limited until the end of this year. We will, of course, continue to discuss this and hope that this will happen; but at the moment we must assume that it is necessary to deal with this funding in the next few months. [[Abg. Scroll: Then you don't have to pay it anymore!]] At present, the Energy Cost Grant Directive lies with the European Commission for notification. I very much hope that it can happen very quickly – the first signals are promising – because it is extremely important that we implement this measure as quickly as possible. I have to say quite honestly: I cannot understand how one can be opposed to a measure that covers a small part of the cost increases for many companies in Austria in order to bring them over this difficult time, because these massive developments, which have come very quickly, have led to a fourfold, tenfold increase in energy costs. I therefore ask once again, in the context of what is possible – some of which is set out at European level – to support this project also in the interest of Austrian companies and entrepreneurs:inwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20103	Next speaker: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20128	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! We have more than 350 000 employers in Austria, and these employ more than two million people. This is actually what this law is all about. Tomorrow we will support the budgets, namely the power-cost brake with which we support four million households; and today's energy-cost grant for companies is about the reduction of the cost of the companies, namely the energy-intensive, but also the SMEs, because they too have enormous costs and burdens to vote and need our support. We want to cover the energy sector by reducing the cost of electricity, natural gas and fuel by taking 30 percent of the additional costs. In contrast to the already adopted proposal, we will increase the amount of EUR 450 million to EUR 1.3 billion. In this way, on the one hand, we want to maintain the liquidity of entrepreneurs and on the other hand, and that is the most important thing to ensure jobs. That is why we are mainly concerned that jobs are 100 percent secured. What we don't want in any case is that because of the high energy costs, companies are resetting their production and, possibly, in the last consequence, they are moving production abroad. We don't want to. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My colleague, Peter Haubner, has already mentioned some key points on the energy cost subsidy. However, it is important to mention that this proposal for the directive is based on the EU crisis framework. In the context of this opportunity, we have tried to cover everyone – whether it is a large or small business. Since we are talking about funding, of course it also needs control. I therefore understand the criticism that the resolution agency should be the AWS, not even. What I understand even less is the attitude of the opposition in this room. [[Abg. Worm: Because?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] One can have very different access to support measures – one has this idea, the other has another idea. But this is not a competition for better ideas. This is about supporting our businesses with their employees. We should therefore have the support in the focus, not just because the proposal comes from the government, but also because it is partial. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Schwarz on his work.]] I don't know how you are, but I'm already calling several businesses and sharing their concerns with me. Now I would like to ask a question about the opposition which was against this request in committee: Is it preferable for you to get no support from businesses and to cancel their employees just because the funding idea did not come from you? [[Abg. Kassinger: What is this great idea,...?- Oh, my God!]] Do you really think your proposal is better? Are you sure that with your defence against this request you will help the companies and share their concerns? I have the impression that you are not of the same opinion as we believe that we should immediately support some of the businesses in the short and medium term with a measure, because our businesses now need the help – also for the employees. Therefore, I now ask again on behalf of all companies with their employees: Support this request! As our minister said: We are talking about a short-term measure and a rapid measure. Therefore, once again my request: Support Let me ask you this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20201	Next speaker: Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20225	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Tanja Graf! We do not mind if the company is being helped, but what is now available is actually the next Murks. It will be too late, probably too little money will be available again, and it is again complicated and poorly prepared. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge money distribution action. [[Abg. Haubner: Have you read it?]] What I don't understand at all: Up to a turnover of 700 000 euros, this is at all the largest casting pot ever to take place – whether companies are energy-intensive or not. I don't understand. What did you really think about it? We still don't know who to do this. It's also a very own story. Obviously they didn't learn from it: The 150 Euro voucher has not been completed until today, ladies and gentlemen, for the climate bonus, people's snakes are in front of the post offices. This is, in fact, a testimonie to poverty in the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black.]] Mr Haubner, you say that the Germans have not at all decided: The Coalition Committee has set 200 billion euros and the lid. [[Abg. Haubner: Go! He's got nothing!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Yes, but not, for what!]] – Yes, but clearly for exactly this measure! [[Abg. Black: Not right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Germans are showing us how. The Germans really protect their industry, and what are you doing? – They destroy our competitiveness. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: Where?]] The Germans will cut our ears off the competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:The logic of the union!]] Talk to your own people! I'm more often in the chamber now than you are, but that has a different reason. They are constantly asking me if we are still very close because they have put this proposal on the table. Talk to your people! They don't leave a good hair on it. [[Abg. Haubner: Go!]] You need to see that. At some point, I think, the lid will come anyway or otherwise, there is nothing else left anyway, because otherwise we are really dead in terms of competitiveness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Our request is now being submitted, he's at the table. Don't wait until damage has occurred, but also make a decent lid, just like our German friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20366	Next speaker: Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20391	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wimmer, you are talking about a ‘murk’. You don't know who's doing it. - We know the AWS should handle it. It's all in the novelle. [[Abg. Rainer Wimmer: No details!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] They actually know that from the 450 million euros to 1.3 million euros will be increased. They actually want to protect jobs. With your disapproval, you risk the jobs. We have a measure that helps employees and helps businesses. There can be no mention of foundry. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Shut up! Everything done!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: That's not supposed to be Murks?]] I also believe that Mrs Doppelbauer has not read the novel, because otherwise she could not say that this is about a casting pot. [[Abg. Cornelia Ecker: Always attack the women!]] There are very differentiated steps that are being taken, and it has really been taken to ensure that no over transport is carried out. I even think it can be that we have to re-adjust. If it is necessary, then we will have to do the same, but I think here now: No, we don't help with it, it's a danger to the location. Think about it again, because I don't think you want our economy to suffer even more! These gas, electricity and fuel prices are really incredibly high. This measure is at least a suspension. I think it's important that we help out here. A unanimous decision would be desirable and correct for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20485	Next speaker: Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20510	Madam President. Minister! Appreciate Seers:innen! I would like to refer briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Pöttinger. To blame a colleague for not having read the request is really last-class and has no style and no place in this House! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Large was announced, the discharge package for the local companies, of a large throw was the talk, but at the end of the day this project also emerges as not targeting. With this amendment, ÖVP and Greens only want to prevent another flop – only you will not succeed with the proposed amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. The current proposal is another symptom for me that you have no longer grown the challenges we face in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I, but also many of my fellow entrepreneurs, are more than disappointed by the policy of this Federal Government. This does not change anything either, because I can assure you today that a one-time payment will not enchant any of my colleagues and none of my colleagues' concerns when they sit in front of the gas or electricity bill. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: This is a beginning!]] We know that this federal government has produced a huge chaos when it comes to the implementation of the Covid-19 measures. That's gonna happen there too, I can assure you now. We as SPÖ are on the side of our companies. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: Exactly!]] – Yes, exactly, Mrs. Graf, you can always call in with your silent I-white-not-what. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Roll.]] – We are side by side with our companies and now we want a shield to not drive this country to the wall. From our point of view, we now need a national gas price cover – immediately – and a co-ordinated EU-wide procurement of natural gas. The wheel doesn't have to be reinvented, Minister. I would like to point out to you, your colleague, Mrs Geessler, that she should be a telephone listener and call colleagues from Germany to find out what would be possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It's clear to us: We want to see actions now, not empty words. It needs prospects for our economy in our Republic. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20685	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is also under negotiation. Mrs Karin Doppelbauer referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20713	Mr Pöttinger said that we all know that the AWS is doing the promotions. . I am actually correct that we do not all know this, because there are no directives for micro-enterprises, that is why the correction is correct. Whoever evaluates them, we don't know either, but that's another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20737	Next speaker: Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20758	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We do not need to talk about it. For a good part of the companies, the current energy crisis is a huge burden. Most of us are at least aware that the power plays of Russia and Putin and the war of attack on Ukraine have a significant influence on price increases. However, I do not want to refer to the problem today, but rather to the steps taken by the Federal Government and also by us as government parties. For me, three main pillars are relevant. The first pillar: The dependence on Russian gas is to be reduced. We invest 1 billion euros in the construction, in the commissioning of renewable energy forms in order to meet electricity needs. [[Abg. Scroll: Only the laws are missing! The laws are missing!]] There are massive efforts by all parties to ensure gas supplies from alternative suppliers, because we also know that we need to rely on it in the medium term. There is the hydrogen strategy and concrete research funding in this area in order to develop it as an energy form in industry and transport, and of course also measures and incentives to save energy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tashner.]] The second pillar: We are committed to mechanisms at EU level to control distorted market prices. As government parties, we do not oppose a gas price cap, quite the contrary. We are also in favour of suspending the Meritorder principle or decoupling the gas price. But we are in favour of a sensible solution at European level, because it is clear that: Each lid is also paid back by the taxpayer, and anyone has to pay the market price, even if it is then passed on more cheaply. Spain has just shown us that if the gas price is too subsidized, even more gas is used to flow it, and then still is exported abroad. I can only say that if you are talking about the gas price cover in Germany, they have not decided on a gas price cover, nor have they been proposed, quite the contrary, the SPD or Germany has opposed a gas price cap at European level. [[Abg. Scroll: We didn't decide! It is the notification in the EU! Nothing's decided! Nothing's fixed, nothing!]] It's not up to us! You can give your comrade a little bit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scroll: Start notification!]] Finally, the third pillar: This is, of course, the suspension of costs for the Austrian population and the Austrian companies. We are also aware that we cannot fully accept it; this is also in our responsibility to taxpayers. However, we are taking tangible steps, as while other countries are only talking about and discussing this, we have today the energy cost allowance for businesses and tomorrow the power price brake for households on the agenda. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: And we will decide with or without your help!]] With this energy cost grant, we support the micro and small businesses and the energy-intensive plants – my colleagues have already mentioned, in which areas and under which conditions. There are important support measures to secure the economic location as well. I can only appeal to all opposition parties once more: Voices You agree to this measure!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20852	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20873	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have also spoken now because the appeals of the government parties to us, to the opposition to agree to this law, should not be unanswered. This is as far as I am trying to at least explain to you why we do not agree to this law, for two reasons: On the one hand, on the one hand, as far as your entire economic policy is concerned, and on the other hand, the whole – the colleague of the SPÖ has already said it – is hush, punch, quick, unforgone et cetera, so also for technical and craftsmanship reasons. I would like to start with the fundamental considerations, and above all look towards the Austrian People's Party. The former economic party, which was, so to speak, a guarantee for a social market economy, a performance-oriented one for many years, is completely mutated to a confederate of a plan economy. [[Abg. Hear: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Are we still!]] It is nothing else that we have had since the last three or four years. This is plan economy from above, partly from the European Union, but of course also from the Federal Government in recent years. The entire Corona regime was an economic planning economy. The whole European Union's climate and energy policy is a planning economy, and the whole foreign policy, now, in the sense of a sichhochlicising – we then come to an agenda point in this regard – within the framework of the economic war between Ukraine and Russia and the unconditional self-on-one-page throw, is also a matter that is plan-economic or ideologically driven. And then you'll be surprised when the economic system comes out of balance; of course it's completely out of balance! The only thing that comes to your mind is – and Mr Graf, I am not of your opinion that this law is a great idea and we simply do not agree because this great idea does not come from us; I do not think it is a great idea at all, because what is the idea of it? – by pouring in another billions in accordance with the principle of foundry. You're saying: That probably won't be enough at Weitem, but we'll try it once! The Minister said in the Committee: Yes, this is something new and I already know that the companies are very heterogeneous about the cost transfer. So we don't know anything in principle and we're going over it with the casting pot. Mr Pöttinger says it's 1.3 million, but it's 1.3 billion euros, not millions, but it's possible to confuse the thousands of units. The Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany has fully identified the Committee – I quote – as follows: We stick a patch to a claping wound at rising costs. There is no problem at all, because you are either unable or unwilling to solve the problems. I have been hearing for months that you are committed at European level to abolishing the Merit Order system. – Nothing has happened for months! The only thing that happens at European level is that the officials and wife of the Leyen are retroactive with 1. ==References====External links== That's what's going on very quickly, but here, with these very essential things, nothing has happened for months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tanja Graf: That's not true!]] Of course, this also has something to do with the expectations and economic war in which we have fallen into it – even more so at the next item on the agenda. I would like to quote Mr Loacker, who said, in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that: We have to be able to keep this up! - Perfect. If I have listened to Mr Brunner today, then I lack the belief that we will continue. We have had 20 billion euros in budget deficits over the last four years and next year – the annual estimate for 2023 will be celebrated as a success – 19 billion euros deficit! At the same time, it is not mentioned that we will pay almost EUR 9 billion in interest next year. This is the double of the entire university budget. By the way, this is the double of the pension increase that we could have done now – twice as high if we didn't have to pay interest! In addition, you bought 20 terawatt hours of gas by 4 billion euros. If you had bought this a few years ago, you would have gotten it a fraction. [[Abg. Letzauer: Why didn't you do it?- Oh, my God!]] That's all chaotic, unstructured, doesn't solve any problems because it doesn't pack the problems at the root. We believe that you will agree with me – with regard to casting can and economy –: In a situation with a strong demand overhang and a supply problem of pumping money into the economy, it is rather not inflationary, but increasing. So please take care that we get the offer back on track instead of constantly pumping more money into the market during a overhang!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e20963	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[19:09:01]] 25. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1673, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Machines – Transport and NotificationsG (MING), the Electrical Engineering Act 1992 – ETG 1992, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 – UWG and the Commercial Regulations 1994 – WEO 1994 (1729 d.B.) 26. Point Report of the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee on the Government Template (1674, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Trade Regulations in 1994 (1730 d.a.) 27. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1675, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the law on measures and eich (1731 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21020	We now come to points 25 to 27 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Kurt Egger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21047	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will probably not have such an emotional debate on the next three agenda items as it has now been. It is about two laws relating to the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying, and to an adjustment of the trade order. TOP 25 deals with a collection of measures to fully review and restructure market surveillance and market surveillance powers. With the alliance of the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying, there is an increase in efficiency and administrative simplification. Point 27 – this also concerns the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying – deals with the establishment of a central liaison body, which is primarily responsible for the handling of safeguard clause procedures, the preparation and coordination of the market surveillance strategy and also the support of cross-border assistance procedures. It is also a matter of creating the legal conditions for the establishment of a certification body for the respiratory masks. In TOP 26, a change in the trade order, this is about a digitalization step. The commercial legitimation to be carried by certain professional groups, as it is so beautiful, which currently consists of linen paper, is brought into a modern checkcard format. There is also a uniform period of time and a certain degree of forgery. [[Abg. Double farmer:... “current” was the word! Check card!]] I also have the task of introducing an amendment to this TOP 26, in addition to an amendment to the trade regulation: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why is that necessary? – In order to streamline the trade regulations with regard to the standards by which they are already trained and tested, so as to ensure that these methods, which concern a core area of cosmetics, beauty care, are implemented accordingly. - I'm asking for acceptance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[19:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21190	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Petra Oberrauner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21214	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Seers at Home! I can also say something about the market surveillance law so that it can be assigned from the figures. From October 2021 to January 2022, the law enforcement agency has found five million illegal toys worth 18 million euros across the EU, and almost all of these toys represent a serious health risk for children – only to illustrate that these changes in laws and the decision of laws are also directly applicable to people and necessary as competitive factors for businesses. Those who comply with the obligations should not be disadvantaged to those who introduce and integrate things that are not certified. That is why we, in the sense of consumers and in the sense of product safety and fair competition, of course agree with the present collection society and also with the amendment of the law on measures and measures. In addition, I can use my time to say that the companies affected by it will probably not have these thoughts in the future, if that goes on the way we have been dealing with – with the energy cost subsidies for companies – so far. We have a minister, who is based on data, who comes from science, knows what is happening on the market, and also has the figures to do so. I already think it is appropriate to think about how liquidity looks in the meantime. If we think of funding and such grants in percentages, then the company is nevertheless required, the payments must be made at the level in question, then, I suppose, I must submit and then get the money back. In the meantime, however, he starves and does not survive. I believe that it is not a scientific or political history, it is a fact-based market story that the company does not have the money so that it can get itself at all. If you don't think logically – and I have to say that the AWS would be a good mid-financer, because the good loans give at good interest rates, where you don't have to repay the capital immediately; that would be a useful task of the AWS – then at least you have to remember that we are Then money will be spent on every bankruptcy, on every unemployed person and on everything else that follows in the social field. That is why I believe there should be a social partnership arrangement. It would have to look at it again at a table to prevent such a Murks as the revenue replacement that provided a few few with a lot of money, which the others laughed at, which still worked for a hunger wage, just to keep them on the market. The only good thing about the Corona crisis, which can really be called this, was short work, and it was invented by the social partners and not by the coalition. I would like to write to the Greens in the main book: There have been three years in which you were not even present. They relate to years in which we had no crisis in which we did not have to take any corona measures and in which one-time payments were bonuses for people who could not afford so much because they did not have the opportunity in life to work it out. I think this comparison is quite cheap. That's where you should hold back.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21269	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ragger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21290	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the house! I would like to talk about the agenda item 26, about this famous checkcard format, because it is simply inconceivable what we decide in the house. We take out a fragmentary piece of work – and I have to quote it again: We are now turning linen paper into a checkcard format with a digitalisation turbo. So now, at a time like this, when there is the highest inflation in which we will probably have the highest interest rate in the next few years, is our most important point of implementation, I only say more: Good night! Mr Egger then dares to stand out and say: We're still making an amendment now!, and he mentions the crystal stars for beauty care and that you can now make the hair removal by laser. – Well, please, that's what's going on in the barrel now! We now have 150 years of industrial order, and you, the ÖVP, are making a fragmentary piece of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] - What for? So that you justify the salaries of your chamber officials? That's the only reason behind it. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] 150 years of piecework: Like a bonsai tree, we cut something around so that we can almost maintain the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Loacker: 1 billion euros a year for the pencil sharpeners!]] We burn money in abundance instead of going here – and the Minister himself said in committee – and making a new business order. Go out and make a commercial permit on a green meadow today! This is almost impossible in Austria. It takes almost years for approval. You need an expert to do this. The expert is usually not officially available then you have to organize a private expert. There is no more businessmen today. Of course, what you like to do with the trade order is to keep their protectionist areas – the word tooth stars and laser beauty therapies. If that's the reason we're sitting in this house, then obviously we're sitting in the wrong house. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution: Mr MMMag. [[Resolution]] Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on ‘the urgent re-codification of the trade order’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template to ensure a re-codification of the trade regulations with the aim of creating a modern, clear and user-friendly regulatory framework, simplifying industrial access and reducing bureaucratic barriers.” Thank you for your attention. I hope you take this seriously. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That was a bad speech!]] [[19:20]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21452	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Götze, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21476	Madam President! Again: Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I too am referring to these three novels on these agenda items, more precisely those relating to market surveillance and commercial law. Both of them don't sound very exciting, but still deal with important topics. From my point of view, market surveillance is a top priority. Especially during Corona, it has been shown that many products, especially via online providers in the EU market and thus also in Austria, are not in conformity with the Union. This sounds trivial now, but not in conformity with union can mean that a product is carcinogenic, dangerous or harmful. Mr Oberrauner has spoken about toys. If children get such a toy in their hands, it can really be very dangerous for the children. It is also important for other products – electric scooters, masks, medications – that these products are compatible with the Union. With the novelle we decide that the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying is responsible for market surveillance, which has already proven itself in other fields. We equip it with extended expertise, in particular that intensive cooperation with the customs office of Austria can also take place, but also international cooperation, because of the fact that networking is of course very important. It is also very important that online trade is recorded, not only trade through dealers in Austria, but also online trade. Especially with toys, it has been shown that very many of the products – 88 percent, there are studies – are illegal from third parties and 48 percent, i.e. almost the Half of it, really harmful to health. We'll fix this gap. I'm seeking approval. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] As far as the trade order is concerned, there is a lot of innovation to be done, since today we only take care of a small building block, but at least we provide at least a slightly more modern world for tourist guides:innen, professional detectives and trade travelers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] They have to prove themselves when they make house visits or are on the go. Her ID was made of linen paper so far, now they get a check card with their photo. I think that's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21531	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. In this case too, I shall put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of this committee. [[19:24:17]] 28. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 2786/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on national surveys on the immediate termination of sanctions against the Russian Federation (1733 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21567	We arrive at the 28th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Axel Kassinger, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21594	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now we are talking about the Russian sanctions, which we believe are also an essential reason for us to be economically, as we have heard many times today, in a very, very difficult situation. We have a high inflation with a very significant danger of entering a phase of so-called stagflation – no more economic growth at the same time as inflation. There are, of course, several reasons for this: the European Central Bank's interest rate policy or monetary policy, the Corona policy with the lockdowns, which has led to massive misunderstandings between supply and demand, the European Union's climate policy, which has created a cost-absorbing relationship in global competition, and of course also the explosion of energy prices, which, moreover, has been rising dramatically since 2021, before the start of the military war between Russia and Ukraine. Whether there is a 100% correlation between the war and the increase in energy prices, I dare to doubt. On the one hand, however, the fact is that energy prices remain high and are likely to grow even higher, and on the other hand, that drastic supply bottlenecks are to be expected. This is a very threatening situation from the point of view of a fundamentally neutral foreign policy, which has the task of representing the interests of the Austrians, companies and people here, because, in addition to the price increases, supply bottlenecks are threatening. We also know that there is a danger of blackout. I don't want to be the Kassandra now, but you have to see the whole thing realistic in the electricity area. May anyone tell me how we get the 25 terawatt hours of electricity we need in winter, if the French already suggest that they do not supply the nuclear power, and the Germans will not be able to supply the electricity that is produced from coal. Let us come to the development of the Russian sanctions, which are not new. They've been there since 2014, that's a development, a permanent escalation spiral. We believe that in the context of this escalation there are many, many losers and perhaps a few winners. The Europeans, the European Union and the Republic of Austria, the people here are definitely not the winners, but the losers. That's been going on since 2014. I just remember that the Americans already made a convention decision in 2017, in which they said: We want to ban the Russians as a supplier of gas and oil, especially as a supplier of Germany, which is the largest and most important economy in Europe! That seems to be successful. But that's where I wonder: What's that? – This cannot be in the interest of the Germans and the Austrians. To respond with sanctions and to say that Putin is now starting an economic war, I do not think it is true either. The point is: The competition that goes faster – the Russian economy or the European economy or the Austrian economy – is not a discipline I would like to participate in. It is a perfect nonsense to see who can last longer. Who's going faster and who's going to hit it in the end? It always hits the so-called little ones in the end. It is not the Minister or Mr Vice-Chancellor who has found that there will be losses of prosperity there and there. I believe that this will be no more for Mr Vice-Chancellor than for the EU Commission and for officials in Brussels. It hits the little ones! One must represent their interests and let reason come back in a scenario that is increasingly escalating. Biden says: An Armageddon threatens us, Selenskyj says: We have to make preventive beatings now!, et cetera, et cetera. I'm really in serious concern. You have to let the air out, both sides. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: With Biden?]] I expect this from a normal, neutral politician who represents the interests – in the case – of the Austrians and Europeans, and that is what it is all about. We are convinced that the population sees this very, very similar. That's why we're talking about it. Desire for a popular survey on the immediate termination of these sanctions, in which there are only losers. There is the loser Ukraine, there is the loser Russia, there are the losers Europe, Germany and especially Austria. There are, of course, even more losers, the developing countries, for example, importing food from developing countries. This is not from me, but from the “press” that is relatively unsuspecting to be a liberal propaganda leaf. The commentator writes: ‘There are two winners: China is getting cheap Russian raw materials, and the USA can sell its fracking gas very “priced to the EU” – to Germany, to us. That cannot be the end of wisdom! That's why: Let reason come back, down from the gas, sit down and put a sign, from the point of view of Europeans! In our view, these sanctions harm us much more than they bring, and they do not bring about a change in the behaviour of those who are sanctioned. They probably meet the Russian population. - Great! Then we can see who can last longer, our population or the Russian. [[Abg. Black: The population...!]] This is not exactly a beautiful human image either, and Russian economic policy has alternatives. She already uses this permanently: There are already two pipelines in Siberia that go towards China. We drive Putin and the Russians into the hands of China. There is now an intensive cooperation with India, with Iran, also with Brazil et cetera. This is not in the interest of the Europeans! In this sense: Let us put a sign, let us do a popular survey in Austria and do everything we can to ensure that not the eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth sanctions package of the European Union is decided, but that a sign is put in the right direction! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21651	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21681	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Mr. Kassinger of FPÖ has now said, among other things, that we should “run off the gas”. – I think we should get out of Russian gas. This is the first important point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Let us, however, begin a thought experiment, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Assuming that there was a popular survey and that she was going to go as you think, so against the sanctions, which I do not believe, but let's assume: What happens then? – Austria is, as it were, emerging from the European family. I suppose in your view it will be so that Mr. Kickl flies to Moscow and says: Dear Vladimir, we Austrians have now left, there are no more sanctions, we do business again!, while in Ukraine the bombs fly and human lives are sacrificed. – This cannot be the way we want to fight as Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Look, it's crazy!]] In the short term, the application itself: They write among others: “The war in Ukraine must not become the occasion for our neutral Austria to take the preconceived party.” This sentence alone may be given the opportunity not to agree to this request. Why? – What does it mean to “take the party”? If, under the impression of the last days, we look specifically at the situation in Ukraine, what happens there, that cities, including the capital again, are bombarded, well, then of course we must take our word and take the party and say: That's not how it is! There people's lives are sacrificed, it's an unbearable state. To say: We as neutral Austria, we withdraw!, is not our line. In addition: They write about the sanctions on how much they meet the Austrian and European economies. – Yes, that is true, and it is always important to debate what accompanying measures we are taking as policies at Austrian, national, but, of course, at European level in order to address these consequences as far as possible. But what you never say is how these sanctions naturally affect the Russian economy. Of course, this has consequences there, including political ones. We hope to see it as soon as possible by hopefully understanding the Russian Federation and its rulers soon that it cannot continue this way. By the way, because you always mention prominent politicians, including representatives of the Chamber of Commerce or the ÖVP, and like to draw their quotations from the context: Everyone has found that in a situation like this, the sanctions are correct and important! It is about how we accompany people and businesses in this crisis. To conclude: For us, the only way can be to find a European solution and take action in the European equinox.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21729	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21754	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Kassager, if you are talking about diplomacy, reason, if you are talking about peace efforts, then you have social democracy at your side, because I think everyone wants peace – that will be one for us here in this House. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hörl]] In principle, however, I have to say – and therefore: wait a bit, colleagues from the ÖVP! – I do not understand why you are making this request today, because you have already admitted in your speech that the sanctions actually have nothing to do with the price per se, but they are due to a market failure. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that's what bothers me like this: You postpone the sanctions and act in public as if they were solely responsible for the horting inflation. This is a market failure, and over it you are fooling. [[Abg. Kassinger: You have to listen, gal!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] You're cheating on that! I have a presumption of why you do not want to talk about this market failure, just as you do not want to talk about wealth taxation: because there are some burgers meeting with you, who then well confess also to the drawing, and there you are divided, in your flights, valued Freedom Party! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The Sozi talk something!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: What are you drinking in the club all day? That's inconceivable!]] That is why you turn off and rather talk about sanctions so that you don't have to talk about market failure. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and greens as well as bravoruf des Abg. Reimon.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is the distraction you are running, and there you are not serving the working population, where you are serving others! That's where I tell you quite honestly: What is at the heart of sanctions? [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Such Communists!]] This is not about sanctions on gas! The core of the sanctions concerns weapons or components for them. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The core you have skinned out! He's a failure!]] If you want arms supplies, say it here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogluwer.]] Say it here, but don't talk abstractly about any sanctions! I'm telling you quite openly: You're pretending the sanctions are driving the price, and that's wrong. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Say who?]] Consider an example: Serbia rejects all sanctions and inflation is 14 percent. Switzerland carries all sanctions, and inflation is just over 3%. - Oh! You don't know? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Appreciated ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the accusation I make to you, is that you take the price to distract you from the real problem, namely from the market failure. [[Abg. Tashner: It's not the market failure!]] That is unfair and that is not in the service of the Austrian population, because it only helps those who already have enough. That's the old rule that you're always running, even if you're in charge. This has guided you Julia Lord, and I will repeat it today: [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Who is this anyway, Julia Herr?]] Bubbling up and coming down because you are ultimately not ready to look where we really need to change something, namely in our economic system. [[Abg. Belakovich: But who's up and who's down, Mr. Colleague?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21960	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e21981	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Great speech, Mr Lercher, I can continue right now. Why do the liberals do that? I have wondered about this request from Mr Kassager – that as a lawyer you can make such a request! One has to imagine the following: You're requesting a People's Survey here. This is the law of the National Council. The National Council may ask the people a question with two answers, such as yes or no. – You don't do that, you don't ask the people! Your application does not contain: Whether to end the sanctions or: Should Austria put an end to the sanctions alone? or: Should Austria be committed to the end of the European Union? Nothing! Your application contains: The Federal Government should make a proposal to the National Council, which question is asked. As a liberal, they want a proposal from the Federal Government that the people should be asked. Isn't that embarrassing to you? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That's it - - -! But the desire is..., isn't it?]] Well, I'll tell you why you're doing this. There are three possibilities. The first is: You're too lazy to write a question. - I don't trust you. The second is: You think Minister Kocher can do better than you. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, we don't believe that! I'll rule it out!]] I think so. I don't think you believe that you could recognize the competence. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, we don't believe that! I would like to say right now: No!]] The third option is: Whatever the question is, you're going to pop around and say: Uh, that's a manipulative question, that's not how it is! – You’ll lose the popular survey, and then you’ll mutter that the question was bad – from the beginning it was so planned. You are particularly interested in your own choice population here. Your own people will lead you here and manipulate you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The whole proposal is nothing but a failure to do so to your electorate as if you were committed to their democracy. In fact, you present them and make them an election trio – that's what you do with this request. You last abused Parliament at a current hour, and now you are misusing the Austrian electorate in the sense of Putin. They misuse their own electorate to make Russian politics in the Austrian National Council. That's what you're doing with this request. They are in fact a parliamentarian and a representative of the people. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The constitution that you're supposed to be, you're breaking all the time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] You're the Russian spy here in this house, that's how it looks. [[Abg. Belakovich: You really have a problem!]] I understand that as someone who wants to make Russian policy here, you are committed to it, but I say something to you: We could really do something with a popular survey. There was only one in this country – by the way, not one while the liberals ruled, I say it only; so much to the direct democracy that you hold so high – that was a big, fundamental political question: yes or no? [[Call:That was Zwentendorf]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That was a popular survey!]] Let us ask so big, fundamental political questions! [[Call: No, that wasn't a vote! Voting was Zwentendorf]] Let us ask a question as to whether half of the Austrian population should earn better, better social security, better career opportunities! Let's do a women's survey! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you want such a thing? - No, I don't. Large, fundamental questions: Let's do a climate survey! Do you want us to have a complete exit from fossil energy? Why Make You don't like that? – Because You're not interested in all this because you're making Russian politics. [[Abg. Kassinger: There is a fine difference between wool and skill!]] But now I'm gonna tell you something: A popular survey is not binding, and then you can discuss whether you want it or not. The question of whether we want it or not is decided by the fact that there is an election result that we have a government that there is a political group that enforces such things. I'm not going to use it for the fact that this is a popular survey. We will do this, and I would recommend that you as a parliamentarian: If you have any concern, ask that as a question and turn Don't go to the government to do your job!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22158	Next speaker: Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22179	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we are talking about the FPÖ's request for a People's Survey on the immediate termination of sanctions against the Russian Federation. The FPÖ here, as it often does, tries to once again in the art of seduction with much too simple explanations. They explain to the people who are sanctions against Russia – you say now, it is only a part, but in fact, it is a major issue – the problem that we now face in all the economic challenges we are facing. – That’s quite simply completely false, Dr. Kassinger. [[Abg. Kassinger: You all don't listen! I can repeat my speech once again!]] For analysis: I can't share Mr Lercher's analysis now – I mean, Switzerland has a completely different shopping cart, neither are its citizens – but one thing has to be said: It has very little to do with the problems we face today. Mr. MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, you seduce the people with a simplification of insanely complex contexts quite consciously! [[Abg. Belakovich: You believe that the people can easily be seduced!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: You didn't listen! That's your problem: that you don't listen when I talk! It wasn't like... I never said that!]] They are particularly concerned about people who are already struggling with the complexity of this world, with economic cycles, with international links that are already beyond their grasp. [[Abg. Belakovich: Fortunately, the population cannot be seduced! People have failed...!]] However, in your writing you only mention the part of the surveys that confirms that people do not support the sanctions anyway. They also argue that former President Christoph Leitl had just said he was against sanctions and found them absurd. I used to call Christoph Leitl and I tell you now – and I can quote it – what he said. He says: Sanctions always harm both sides, that was clear. As Europe and Austria, however, we have opted for this path. Leaving this path now would be completely wrong. [[Abg. Belakovich: Can he please repeat this publicly?- Oh, my God!]] That would be like changing the horse during a race. We must bear these sanctions until a peaceful solution is reached. [[Abg. Cashier: Go through until the bitter end!]] - Quote. That's what Christoph Leitl says. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger.]] Mr. MMMag. Dr. Kassinger! This discussion, this debate is simply dishonest. They demand a popular survey, and – I join Michel Reimon – it would be morally binding for us. You know about the delicate situation of politics today. If we consistently think about it in all honesty, then you should actually ask for a people to vote, because only then could you say: This is the decision of the people! We are all currently in a phase in which the highest, highly critical. [[Abg. Kassinger: The questioning of the people is always critical!]] If you were to live responsibly and not only feel committed and driven to populism, you wouldn't sleep well either. That's why you're not doing that. That would be as if you were calling for a vote on the Community and questioning it: Do we want to leave the European Union? – A single entry of Austria into this system of sanctions is not possible. [[Abg. Kassinger: Now it will be...!]] That would be the same thing, and you know that very well. [[Abg. Belakovich: It's not a single way!]] This proposal is purely populism! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: But now the fantasy is going through with you a little bit, Mrs. Colleague!]] The best example is that the vote on Brexit, especially in rural regions with low incomes, has a low degree of education. [[Abg. Belakovich: So what?- Oh, my God!]] There was mobilized, there was manipulated and there decisions were made. Do you know what's going on today? – Most of the British would like to return, especially the boys. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] 77 percent of young British people wish to return to a European Union. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[New calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kassinger.]] Summary: This request is only for the splitting of our society. Mr Dr. Kassinger, you're turning on the fear spiral – you've called it the escalation spiral – that's what you're doing. [[Abg. Kassinger: I'm not turning! We're not turning!]] They pour oil into the fire. They're polarizing. They are trying to divide society at a time when we need exactly the opposite. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't do anything, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] You are responsible for the Russian propaganda finding a thriving soil here. You are responsible for people joining this – that is your moral responsibility! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The fact that this sanctions policy is not going to be sprint was clear. That's not a marathon either, it's probably an Ironman, but we're good on the go: The Russian economy is shrinking dramatically; they are in the middle of a recession; they no longer find any measures to recruit new people for the war. [[Abg. Cashier: Aha! The Monetary Fund says something else!]] – It works. Only: Now it's called holding line! It is now said to be commonplace and to go through this together! Now there's no back. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That means that we jointly minimize the impact, as well as it is. If you look at the last weekend, the Federal President's election: You actually saw the result. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, four parties, 55 percent – great success!]] Simple: The success of your right-wing community, your candidate community, which has found itself there, was manageable. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That was the success of the ÖVP?- Oh, my God!]] What did people want? – They wanted stability! Austria has chosen unsurprising stability. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is precisely this concept that has been achieved, because economics needs cohesion. Austria now needs cohesion. We want unsurprising stability. – Maybe it would be better sometimes, you also contribute your part to it and just don’t make any more such applications!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22506	Mrs Susanne Principality has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22534	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What gives rise to such a simple, well-intentioned request for a popular survey on sanctions against Russia in such a way as to trigger emotions – incredible! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Abg. Maurer: Very funny!]] [[Abg. Disoski: Hihi, you funny!]] [[Abg. Strasser: This isn't funny!]] I think we remember that, such requests have to be made more often. [[Call to the ÖVP: This will buy you the Putin anyway! Otherwise there's no coal!]] The later the hour, the more scurrying some contributions. [[Call the Greens:Yes, yours, for example!]] On the perhaps low-alcohol contribution of Mr Lercher [[Call the SPÖ:Hey!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Ui!]] [[Abg. Disoski: What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the Greens: I can't do that!]] [[Call the ÖVP: So that's hard! The singer's still here!]] [[Unrest in the hall]] He was very entertaining, but I'm not going - -
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22679	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be moderate and to continue in your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22695	It was rather apologising. The statements of my predecessor Jeitler-Cincelli from ÖVP – that is all so complex – could not lead to a popular survey, here Russian propaganda will be spread if one wants to question the people whether it really wants to bear the consequences of these sanctions – is a strange understanding. Mr Ottenschlager from the ÖVP asks how we imagine this at all. How do we imagine getting out of the sanctions? [[Call the ÖVP: Tell us!]] There is a European solution. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Did I say eh...!]] – No, we are Austria, we have a federal government! We imagine this in such a way that Chancellor Nehammer in Brussels opens his mouth, where not only does what Brussels buys, and says what woman wants to hear from him about the Leyen. [[Abg. Hanger: Please, don't do that!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Straster: If you were there, you would see that! But you're not there!]] In addition, he does not just contradict and does not offer Austrian interests there, but he also gives himself as a model student, as we saw at the end of February on his ridiculous journeys. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Call to the ÖVP:But Mrs. Colleague!]] Minister Edtstadler is responsible for our constitution, but she is taking her feet and for the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] But she misunderstands this office. It would have to represent Austrian interests in the EU, in Brussels and not vice versa the Brussels interests in Austria – that is the understanding of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our federal constitution provides for the possibility of a People's Survey for "the matter of fundamental and all-Austrian importance" – an instrument of direct democracy. Interesting was also the speech by the Green Member Reimann, who believes that if one wants to make use of this instrument of direct democracy, it is an abuse of democracy and we should immediately disappear from Parliament. [[Call the Greens:Reimon!]] So: This is provided for by constitutional law for fundamental matters affecting the Austrian population as a whole. [[Abg. Reimon: Then put a...!]] I believe that the imposition of these EU sanctions, to which the Federal Government has unreservedly agreed, is such a fundamental question, because, in the event of a targeted and conscious impoverishment of broad levels of society through rising prices, for which sanctions are not solely responsible, but to which they contribute to a good part, the population is to be asked whether it really wants to achieve an energy uncertainty. They also do not trigger the EU sanctions on their own, but they mainly contribute to them. The rest is mainly caused by the energy transition in which you have now clearly observed the green fanatical ideology. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Does that want the population? Does she want the exit from the fossil energy that's done right away? Does she want an unsafe energy situation? Does she want to pay exorbitant prices for it? When you look in the media, in the news - - – What do you mean: [[Abg. Hanger: Please go!]] “Please!”? [[Abg. Hanger: What are those for no-na-net questions?]] Look into the news: The department stores once closed – ten times electricity costs. Is that good for our economy? What do you think this will have consequences? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] The big ones close earlier, the little ones have to lock. Obviously, everything doesn't matter. Do the Austrians want this economic downturn with a coming recession, with all the consequences? [[Further call of the Abg. Hanger.]] In the budget speech, the Minister of Finance says: We have achieved an excellent economic policy through the corona crisis. Well, let's see how it goes. He doesn't want to see any problems. Do the Austrians want the task of neutrality? Do you want us to position ourselves as a war party through the unconditional acceptance of EU sanctions? These are fundamental questions, and it should be an abuse of our constitution and democracy if we ask the Austrian people whether they want to advance poverty, whether they want an economic recession and whether they want to give up our neutrality? One would simply have to inform the people about the consequences of the economic war against Russia and then ask them if they would like to do so. How such a request can cause such resistance is my mystery. It was promised in Brussels – and you also said it here in the Government Declaration at the end of February: The sanctions will end the war and they will harm Russia much more than Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Both are not true. Colleague Jeitler-Cincelli says: We're good on our way. – Well, I would also say that we are super on the road economically in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Let's see what comes out of it: In any case, both objectives have not been met. The war is not over, but the war is just in the fatal spiral of escalation that we predicted. Unfortunately, the EU also contributes to this. As we stand economically, I think the Austrian population every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22893	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask, as agreed, whether we can come to the vote immediately. – I will be notified of approval. Then I'll go like that. [[19:55:03]] Vote on agenda items 23 to 28
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e22921	We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft federal law which approves the federal law approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location and amends the Federal Act on an energy cost grant for energy-intensive companies, including the title and receipt in 1732 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 24: Draft Federal Act amending the Hardening Fund Act, 1734 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Götze - (DE) Thank you, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Wöginger: There were two more motions for resolutions!]] My Croquis doesn't look like it in itself. I am still asking for certainty whether there is still a motion for a resolution here. I'm gonna interrupt for a second. . I am not interrupting the session, we are in the voting process, but I would just ask you to look at the Croquis again for security. We have also decided on agenda item 23 by a majority in third reading, and now there is a short break. As rightly mentioned, we are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues in relation to ‘the ban on smoking in the interiors of gastronomy on a voluntary basis in connection with the so-called heating ban on the execution of the Company Energy Cost Grant Act – UEZG’. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues, on the preparation of a national gas price cap and so on. a gas price brake’. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strasser and Mr Hörl.]] – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft Federal Act amending the Hardening Fund Act in 1734 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Götze, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, on points 1 and 4. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who gives this the consent? – This too is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We come to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft federal law which amends the Machines - Transport and Notification Act, the Electrical Engineering Act, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition and the Commercial Regulations, together with the title and receipt in 1673 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 26 vote: Draft Federal Act amending the Commercial Code in 1674 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment to Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Elisabeth Götze, and others. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Elisabeth Götze and Mr Cots have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of paragraph 6a and point 14. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously approved. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. – These are adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Axel Kassinger, colleagues, on 'the urgent re-codification of the trade order'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 27 vote: Draft federal law, which amends the law on measures and eich, together with the title and receipt in 1675 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. Vote on agenda item 28: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 1733. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[20:02:46]] 29. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2793/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law that amends the holiday law, the Land Arbeitsgesetz 2021 and the Home Labour Act 1960 (1683 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23049	We will now reach the 29th. Debates of the European Parliament There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23077	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! This item on the agenda is now about changes in the right of holiday, and once again it is quite clear on which side is the Federal Government of ÖVP and Greens: It is clearly on the side of employers and corporations. At the moment, workers: women who end their service from today to tomorrow without reason – that is the so-called unauthorised early retirement – do not receive a disbursement of the rest of the holiday days. To this end, the European Court of Justice has now decided that this scheme is unlawful for the Union. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Federal Government is now on the move to find a Union law-compliant regime. There would, of course, be two options: either a job-friendly or an employer-friendly solution. Surprisingly, the Federal Government has opted for an employer-friendly solution, which is to say that the remaining leave is paid only to a maximum of four weeks. Our proposal would, however, be the more labour-friendly variant of the fact that the fifth or sixth holiday week is also disbursed. That is why we should have simply deleted the previous regulation. Interestingly, there are also several decisions of the European Court of Justice relating to the right of holiday, namely a decision indicating that the holiday cannot be delayed if the worker or the employee has not been given the opportunity to consume his/her vacation. We all know that the consumption of leisure leave is an important factor for the regeneration and health of workers:inners. Nevertheless, there are employers who do not allow their employees to spend their holidays for years – more than three years – and then this holiday will last for a while. Therefore, on these two points mentioned earlier, I am tabling an amendment which should be distributed in the hall. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: He's already here!]] - Very good. However, in the sense of the reduction of the time required by us again and again, it would be time to introduce the sixth week of vacation for all if the holiday law is already open. [[Abg. Tashner: Sure!]] Our request is already in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and I invite all the parliamentary parties to agree to our request. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23240	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Michael Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23267	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is not possible today to come to the speaker's desk after a Member of the SPÖ, or a Member of the SPÖ, without taking note of the prefaces. If we were to deal with the proposal and what we decide today, it would be necessary to recognize that we are regulating something in relation to a ECJ decision taken at OGH's request, precisely in relation to what you have just criticized, namely that this right to leave is in the future. This will be decided today. They put themselves here and say: The government is not on the side of workers, but only on the side of employers. – You didn’t actually understand what we decided to do. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well, you didn't understand!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nuss tree.]] We decide exactly what we do. Without wanting to defend the content of colleagues in Kassager: Previously, it was also the same with colleagues Lercher, who simply came here and put something under him, which was not at all said, because it was claimed the opposite. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's what you defended me with! Thank you, thank you!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, now I have to speak, I can't...!]] It was also the same with the budget today: We've just gotten started with Colleagues Krainer. He's been talking about anything, just not talking about this budget and putting any things in the room that aren't there. It's a style that's really unnecessary and a shame. You really have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are in line with the ECJ's decision that this right to pay for the four holiday weeks is granted. A small editorial error is contained in the application, and I am therefore allowed to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] [[20:08]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23441	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23468	Mr Hammer, you are right, of course, it is a decision of the Supreme Court, but one could of course have solved it differently. It is now the case that part of the holiday will still be paid off, but the rest will be lost – that means if workers have a longer vacation, he will fail. To this extent, Mr Nussbaum is of course right: They are always only on the sides of those who can afford it well anyway. They never stand on the side of the workers. [[Abg. Haubner: Go, go!]] You have also proved this in this bill, and therefore we will not agree to the draft law in this way. We could have solved this differently, but we have already discussed it in a very long and very detailed way in the Committee. It cannot be that one always decides the minimum of what is specified. In times of crisis, especially in times of inflation, one can stand side by side with those who don't have quite that easy and for whom it would be important to get a little more and get a little more than what is specified by the court judgment. In that respect, I have to tell you, you could have paid off the total vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23503	Next speaker is Mag. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23532	Mr President. Mr. Minister! As early as July 2022, we decided here in the National Council within the framework of the Service Law Novelle for the employees of the public service, that, if early retirement is not justified, a leave allowance should be paid to a minimum of four weeks. This means that what we are doing here is nothing but to understand this regulation for the private sector and agriculture. That is, in fact, that has been decided for the public service here, and I have looked at it in an extra way, also with the voices of the liberals. The SPÖ did not agree at the time, but at the time the reason was the national teachers:innen; of the four weeks there was never at all the talk that this would not fit at all. I believe that we have to say quite clearly what this is all about – and I think it is good that there is this scheme, I think it is very good that the European Court of Justice has decided here, that it has clearly spoken correctly and that, thanks to EU law, workers:internal rights have now been extended and extended. Nothing has been circumcised, on the contrary: The rights have been extended thanks to this claim. Previously, the regulation was that they did not receive anything, no holiday replacement – now they receive a holiday replacement due to this decision. And what group? – Name of the group of workers: women who have not received anything so far, because they had an early unjust retirement. That is, they have dissolved their working relationship with immediate effect, without notice and without reason. This is not a legitimate departure, where people are not paid for the fact that working conditions are dangerous, that they are life-threatening, that they get sick, that they are sexually harassed, say: I'm not going to work anymore. – In such cases, of course, they have all the rights. It is also a rumor that, at once, existing holiday claims from previous years can no longer be claimed. It remains, as it has been. What actually happens is that four weeks of annual leave will be paid off from the year in which early retirement takes place, as decided by the ECJ. I would ask you to agree to this improvement for workers. Again: It is an improvement – it is a claim that has not existed in recent years and decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23569	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 29 to 37 and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:13:21]] 30. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2763/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the field of pay-side costs, and create wage-negotiation margin (1684, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23605	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23635	Mr President. Minister! High house! Inflation rates are high and there lies in the nature of the The fact that the employee's representation also imposes high wage demands, because it is a matter of keeping the employees' wages and salaries their worth. However, one must react to this because the companies are under multiple pressure: On the one hand, they are under the pressure of high energy prices, in Austria they are also under enormous red tape, and now we have particularly high additional wage costs in Austria. There we in the OECD are in fifth place, i.e. among the developed industrialized countries in the very frontal field, as far as the level of additional labour costs is concerned. Pressure from three sides in an international competition, and there is the question: What can you do? – The Republic has not made the high energy prices, but the Republic has done the bureaucracy and also the high additional wage costs, and there you have to start. In our opinion, it is about reducing the additional wage costs. This gives the companies the air they need so that they can pay higher wages so that they can meet trade union demands so that they can ultimately remain more net. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In fact, we have a lot of additional labour costs, which finance everything possible, but not the concerns of the workers. For example, the Chamber 2 to the Chamber of Commerce – which we finance away from the wages, but which has nothing to do with the interests of the workers – could be eliminated, and nothing would be missing for the workers. We have much too high contributions to legal accident insurance, which would be much cheaper. The official's insurance scheme shows: That's about half. We have housing promotion contributions. Why do workers have to pay for housing promotion with their salaries, even if other workers or non-employed persons can get money from the means of housing support? - That doesn't belong to the wages on it. In the same way, family benefits are not financed from the workforce alone, but, if so, generally from the budget. If we were to finance these things, which we are now financing away from the wage, or simply delete them, then more air will remain for companies to pay higher wages, and that is what it is about in days like this. That is what this request is aimed at. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23692	Magnificence comes to the fore. Klaus Fürlinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23716	Mr President. Minister! Thank you first of all, Mr Loacker, for taking up the issue of labour costs. That's always an interesting topic. It is a good topic, and of course we have also fought for an election campaign in 2017 and 2019, and we have also observed some of what we announced at the time, Mr. Collegue. Over the last few years, we have reduced contributions to insolvency insurance, to unemployment insurance, to accident insurance – everything you mentioned here earlier – in order to counter high labour costs. I admire you, however, that you have been in the House for a long time, and you are still in the juvenile phase, because with this request – and you have been silent for a little while – you want to reduce the cost of wages and side-by-sides by a third. If we take them away there, and that's the hint of argumentation, then this contribution has to be paid from elsewhere. That is to say, you have to take it out of the tax pot, and then it will eventually pay back either the businessman or the employee. The cost of housing and all these things remains the same. [[Abg. Loacker: The Chamber of Commerce would be gone!]] I do not think it makes sense to provoke a system failure by removing a third of these costs from the outset without a counter-proposal. That is why we have also rejected this proposal in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. In connection with your reference to the wage negotiations and your demand for the multi-net-vom-gross, it is not often enough to indicate what we have done in this House right now and what we are doing by abolishing the cold progression. For decades we have been discussing, for decades nothing has happened – but now, ladies and gentlemen, we have done it in this House, and that is quite certainly the biggest multi-net-vom gross we can afford, especially for the upcoming wage increases. In this sense, we have taken a great deal of advantage of your request and decided today, and I hope you're happy about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23753	Michael Seemayer comes to speak, this time only. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23777	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A request made by Mr Loacker, who is trying to make room for negotiation in wage and salary negotiations, is always interesting. In most cases, it is against the Chambers or the Chambers; this time, the additional wage costs. What are additional wage costs? – This means that everyone understands something different. These are once the social security contributions or the wage tax, another means the holiday, the payment, holiday money, Christmas money – everything can be understood by additional wage costs. The main reason for this request is the reduction of contributions to the Flaf, housing and municipal tax, but also the contributions to AUVA and unemployment insurance is obviously still too high. Obviously, the chamber contributions were also cited as a potential for savings, which was not to be expected otherwise. The fact that the additional wage costs for the assessment of the site question are completely inadequate alone proves that nobody wants to produce any additional wage costs where there is no or only very low wage costs. These are usually the very unattractive locations. In other words, we have very probably a location advantage through meaningful location policy. [[Abg. Loacker: I referred to OECD countries – not Rwanda!]] - Yes, OECD countries. It makes sense to use unit labour costs for such comparisons, and we are excellent here, as we are better than many other economically strong countries. Caution should be exercised only if one looks at the last reductions in additional labour costs. Thus, the reduction of AUVA contributions leads to the hunger of the accident hospitals. In Upper Austria, Industrial Germany number one, there are no more beds for the supply of serious fire injuries that unfortunately occur in the daily working world. Several times a year serious injuries have to be flew to Vienna, Graz or Munich if there is even a free bed there. What that means for partners, for the family, if they have to drive hundreds of miles to visit the family, I don't need to explain to anyone in here. In recent years, there have always been reductions, it has been pointed out: Reductions in additional wage costs, reductions in service providers' contributions, AUVA contributions, ISG contributions have been reduced several times, a total of over EUR 1.3 billion. How often do you think there was more room for collective treaty negotiations? - Not! This does not lead exactly to anything about the CV negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to room for KV negotiations, you have to look somewhere else. In the metal industry alone, the value of production has increased from 70 billion to 75 billion euros over the last three years, with constant personnel costs. Within a year, profits doubled and 80 percent were exhausted. So don't worry, we know where we need to look at KV negotiations!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23822	Magnificence comes to the fore. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23846	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Loacker, you're going to be quite surprised, I'm sure I can get your address, the relief of the factor of work. It is indeed true that in Austria, with regard to the so-called payroll tax, i.e. wage-related taxes, we are quite at the top of the world. Austria, I think, is only being overtaken by Sweden. We're just in front of France, and then we're pretty much at the end of the flag rod. It is really a question of why, for example, charges such as the housing contribution or the municipal levy must be abolished on the basis of the total wage. This is quite a legitimate question, whether there are alternative forms of funding, because it does not necessarily have to be that way. I think it is at least a progress made by Mr Loacker that, in his request between social security contributions, he differs as an additional wage, which he does not really want to reduce, apart from the accident insurance contribution, and the payroll tax which he wants to reduce. Only the big problem is: The money taken there is not washed down or buried or hidden anywhere, but it serves to finance certain state benefits, certain social benefits, certain tasks. And if we no longer want to finance this on the basis of wages, then we have to finance it on a different basis, then it takes alternative forms of financing, and we have to think about it. If wages and salaries do not work for it – where I am quite sure I am, yes, you can discuss it – then it would be an alternative way to finance it, because a further increase in income tax, wage tax, even mass taxes, as well as sales tax will probably not be, probably especially recommend income-related taxes, where we are at the bottom of the flag bar in Austria, or a further ecologicalisation of the tax system in the context of an eco-social tax reform, an even further where we say: Social contributions are reduced, i.e. these payroll taxes, for which environmental taxes will be increased. This would actually be a profound structural reform that would relieve workers and reduce tax weighting. I can only honestly see no majority in this House at present. I'd be very pleased if the NEOS would say: Yes, this is a good idea, we are actually talking about reducing the labour factor and taxing wealth transfers, for example, higher inheritances! [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Then at least another step would be taken in this House, perhaps to increase the level of tax justice, to relieve workers, and to increase capital and environmental consumption. Yeah, we can talk about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23889	Mr Michael Bernhard came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23913	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have now made my speech, because, according to Mr Loacker's comments, there has been a relatively difficult explanation of arguments. I would like to start with something that Mr Fürlinger has brought into the field. He said that our proposal from NEOS side to remove non-employee-related additional labour costs from the additional labour costs and to finance the tax budget in general makes no difference because all costs persisted. And, of course, that's not the case! This is not the case because, first of all, the Chamber 2 which we have referred to, which is financed by the Chamber of Commerce, does not necessarily have to be further financed, because the Chamber of Commerce is on so much money, at the moment EUR 1.6 billion in reserves that it can live for a long time without the Chamber 2. And if it were to work more efficiently and did not employ loud breakfast directors, then there would be much more. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Thank you for the objection: also breakfast directors, of course. It is basically the case that you can delete 2 at the chamber envelope – not suspend it, but really delete it. A second example, Mr Fürlinger, is – Mr Loacker has also done this – that: In the case of accident insurance, it is a matter of providing official insurance that the times have changed, that thanks to God, there are fewer accidents at work and that this reduces costs and can therefore also be reduced in the case of additional labour costs. The third point is the promotion of housing. This is used in the countries for the purposeless support of the national budgets. This means that only because the countries do not operate better do the workers have to do something about their wages, and that under the cover of housing. This means, quite specifically, of course, that costs fall away when you look closely at the tax budget, which is generally discussed again, and then financed differently. Another point, Mr Seemayer, which you seem to have made, I do not think that if we had NEOS, we would have understood: We're talking about... that there are now extremely high wage and salary demands on employers, which they cannot simply pass on. This does not mean that you simply make all products and services more expensive by x percent. In some cases, it's not going anywhere. That is to say, the idea is to shape the framework conditions for companies in such a way that workers can really be given as much salary and wages as the union partially demands – probably not entirely up to the level, but at least to an extent that the enterprises can continue to exist, because if they do not exist, there is no one who pays salaries and wages. In order to enable both of them, our access to reduce the additional wage costs would be appropriate. This is not particularly difficult to understand, and I think it is also in the sense of trade unions, because if their members do not have a job, they will no longer be members of the trade union. That is why it is in the sense of employers:innen and therefore I really do not understand this rejection.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e23975	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is obviously not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 29 to 37 and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:28:32]] 31. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2796/A by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Barbara Neßler, Ladies and gentlemen concerning a federal law amending the labour contract law adaptation law (1685, e.g.) 32. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2740/A(E) by Mrs Petra Wimmer, colleagues, on the reintroduction of the right to special care (1686, e.g.) 33. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2129/A(E) by Mrs Petra Wimmer, colleagues, on the extension of the special care period for Covid-19 (High-risk children) (1687, d.e.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24048	We now come to points 31 to 33 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. In this case, too, oral reporting has been waived. Petra Wimmer is the first to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24078	Mr President! Minister! High house! Yes, we all wish we didn't have to deal with Covid anymore. For over two years we have been dealing with the pandemic, the disease, the effects, but unfortunately it is not over yet. The current rising figures show a development in which we have to deal with it even longer and that in politics we have to ensure that the framework conditions regarding the challenges that Covid brings with it, with all the impact on daily life, are designed in such a way that all people can deal well with this threat. That is why I and my group are particularly concerned about the special care period. Time and again the claim expires, we have to extend this claim again and again. This leads to uncertainty for the families concerned that: If a child has to stay at home, who has to negotiate with the employer again, and for the employer too, it needs to be planned. Therefore, an unlimited right to special care time is very important to us, that would be the solution in the sense of all those involved. I'm trying again today, I'm tabling an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] What sounds so technical means that the right to special care time is unlimited. This would be a very important step in the sense of the families and also a sign that the government finally understood under what enormous pressure the families stand under. I would ask you to agree to this request. The families just need this security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, it is also very unfortunate that the government parties have rejected my request regarding “enlargement of the special care period for covid-19 (high-risk children), i.e. for very, very sick children, for children who are particularly vulnerable. During the last two years, these families have found no hearing and no understanding at this federal government. With the rejection of this request, you leave it alone again with your concerns and fears. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24230	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The word is now Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24258	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen and dear spectators here on the gallery and at home in front of the screens, provided they are still there at this somewhat later hour! Yeah, we're going to extend the special care time again because we don't know how long this pandemic will last. Everyone, I think, here in this hall and everyone out there hopes that this pandemic will soon come to an end and we will not need any more such requests. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Worm: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That would be a good approach!]] We extend this special care period for parents who can be used up at three weeks, and for entrepreneurs it is important that the cost of the Covid-19 crisis management fund be taken over. At this point, I would like to say that in the past it has already been so that it has been a challenge for entrepreneurs to deal with this pandemic with their employees, and even now it is one to deal with this energy crisis. It is a challenge for everyone, for the entire society in Austria. It is also challenging if employees fail in the short term. The productions are still, customers can't be operated, orders can't be executed, heating technicians don't come into the house, children can't be cared for by educators or educators. But it is not only in times of pandemic that it is important that childcare works. It is important for the economy that childcare is expanded and family and profession find compatibility. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to appeal here as regards health: We need healthy employees, I need healthy employees in my company. And health keyword: That means in this pandemic, even if the FPÖ does not want to hear that we are getting vaccinated. The vaccination has shown that it works that many people, thanks to most people, have a very mild course, so to speak, that they do not get as sick as we saw in the beginning of the pandemic. [[Abg. Belakovich: What about the unvaccinated who have a mild course?]] [[Abg. Worm: Whoever he wants!]] What does Austria now need for a stable location? Finance Minister Magnus Brunner has today presented the future budget, in which many measures have been taken, as we come out of this crisis: Reduction of income tax from 35 to 30 and from 42 to 40 percent, abolition of cold progression. What does that mean in concrete terms? – If you got a wage increase, it happened that because of the tax you had less in the wallet that, although you earned grossly more, you nevertheless got net less out than before. This is a sluggish tax increase, and we will end it after 40 years – please, after 40 years we will do this! This government is doing this now and putting it into practice. The special family bonus of 180 euros was paid out, the family bonus was raised to 2 000 euros in July of this year, then 500 euros of climate bonus, which hopefully everyone in Austria has now received, and many more, many more measures, such as the electricity price brake. [[Abg. Bernhard: Not yet!]] Entrepreneurships and employees have shown what is called cohesion in the corona pandemic, and this is also the focus. Together we are strong and together we do. Finally, I would like to thank all employees and especially all entrepreneurs that they have gone through this hard time. There are also tough times ahead, but they will also be able to survive these hard times and thus maintain jobs in Austria. We in Austria have the lowest unemployment rate, and once again: [[Abg. Worm: What do we have?]] That's great. Thank you very much, this is your merit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24379	Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24400	Dear Bureau! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and those who may still be there via live stream! The special care period is now being extended, retroactively with 5. September, and that is where the Minister of Family Raab and you, Minister of Labour, say the special care period is an important support for families in difficult times. – Yes, we agree with you, but this insight comes a little late, because retroactively means that the parents have had no security at school and so far, whether there is this special care period. Acting forward looks something different. The scheme expired at the end of the school year and you left the parents alone with this concern. Three weeks of special care, with full pay being paid, parents actually help if no other child care is possible – if the child is coronapositive and can not go to school in the kindergarten, to the crab group; if the class is officially closed because there may be too many corona cases; this applies to children up to 14 years of age, but also to people with disabilities, if the facility has closed, or even if the 24-hour care, which care should fail. So far, this special care period has been used for 107 000 people, mostly children. In relation to all other corona funding, 26 million euros are a small drop; these 26 million euros are financed by the federal government to employers. We support this measure for all families affected by it, because just after the summer holidays the holiday is usually exhausted or the rest already planned fixed for the care in the Christmas holidays, and unpaid vacation is absolutely no option in these times. Let us help the parents who perform, work, and pay taxes in Austria to meet their care obligations! You have enough worries in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24439	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24464	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned this: It may feel like this, but the corona pandemic is unfortunately not quite over, and therefore it makes sense to take appropriate measures for the worst case, which we do with the extension of the special care period. The special care period can be used for up to three weeks – even if the special care period was already used before. A time-limited version, as the SPÖ wants, I consider it to be of little use. Why? – Because, of course, we have to react more flexiblely to the pandemic and, on the other hand, we have to rely on the special care time on the Covid legislation or the quarantine regulation. I believe that the important thing is the legal claim that the three weeks can be used again, and we really do, with a far-reaching view, ensure security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is exactly our job: Reducing worries where we can reduce them. Reduce anxiety: If we are honest, we have to admit that the prospects for the future are not exactly rosy – corona, climate crisis, inflation, war in Europe – and just as a parent, we are again thinking about the world in which our child is released. [[Abg. Belakovich: Aha!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, with a ghastly government it goes again!]] That is the point, ladies and gentlemen: We should also ask ourselves again and again what world we want to hand over to our children. We know the challenges are great. We are already in permanent crisis mode throughout the entire period of government, and what happens easily is that a crisis is then balanced against the other crisis, which is anything but targeting. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, so if you have anything to say about the pandemic now, I would rather not know. [[Abg. Belakovich: I think so!]] Too bad. I would like to say one more thing: Unfortunately, I do not think we can delay the climate crisis, and we should never forget who must finally bear the consequences for our political decisions. [[Abg. Belakovich: The children!]] – These are young people, we should never forget that, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24565	This is the word of Fiona Fiona. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24587	Mr President. Mr. Minister! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! Today is again a day of the Husch-pusch laws and thus also a day of contradictions. A number of proposals for initiative are submitted by the ÖVP and the Greens without consideration. As a result of the regulation of the pension increase, it has already been decided today that compensation beneficiaries will receive an additional one-off payment, but not minimum pensioners. Regardless of whether to grant a single payment to these two groups or not, compensation recipients are, in fact, the retired minimum insurance beneficiaries. One group gets the money, the other doesn't – it doesn't make sense. In addition, it was decided today that a person who retires quickly in 2022 will receive a special pension increase of 2.9 percent, but someone who goes into retirement only a month later, 2023, does not receive this increase. So again – completely valueless, whether you support the increase or not –: This selective pension increase is simply the result of a Husch-pusch-leggestgebung. We now also have such an illogical law under this agenda item on the extension of the special care period specifically for Covid. First, the law only runs until 31.12.2022. That's free. If the government assumes a new covid wave, it will certainly not end with 31.12. Secondly, if the government completely forgets that we already have a basic immunisation of over 90 percent, it says: further infections are milder, apart from the fact that the follow-up variants do not usually become more aggressive. What surprises me, therefore, is that the government, according to law and explanation, considers Covid-related blocks in schools and kindergartens to be quite likely. My inquiries have shown that Covid-disposed students were as good as never at intensive care stations. Over two thirds of the under 15-year-old covid intensive cases were mainly premature or infants of mothers with covid. I assume that these children have not been inhaled, but are located in surveillance stations for safety. So after three years of pandemic and over 90 percent of basic immunization, let us finally stop making children afraid! We do not adopt such laws in the case of other diseases. However, I find something curious that FPÖ is voting in favour of one of these three special care applications. This is not quite true if one claims for three years on every occasion: Covid doesn't exist! But if there is money from the state, then Covid is also for the FPÖ quite en vogue. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Today the FPÖ is the political wurlitzer and plays everything, from Coronaprotestsong to the Corona Action Orchestra as in this case. How about a fact-based middle path? Thank you. [[Also performing the thanks in sign language:]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24649	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I also put the votes to this effect at the end of the negotiations on agenda items 29 to 37 and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:47:11]] 34. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2720/A by Mr Mag. Ernst Gödl, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Foreign Employment Act (1688, e.g.) 35. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2803/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on AMS training: More than 50 percent of foreigners! (1689 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24701	We come to points 34 and 35 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dietmar Keck has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24737	Mr President. Minister! Now it is decided to amend the Foreign Employment Act. The scheme will allow the AMS a discretionary margin in the context of a differentiated examination for repeated, i.e. twice unauthorised employment of foreigners. After consulting the Regional Advisory Council, in justified cases, it may be excluded from the barrier to further approvals, which lasts for a year – that is, in about what we are going to decide now – “if the company makes it credible that it will prevent further unauthorised employment of foreigners through concrete technical, organisational or human measures”. That's so rough of the law text. Obviously, it is larger companies that are affected by this change, but also social companies such as SOS Kinderdorf. All this has been covered or raised because the regime has become acute in connection with Ukraine, as a ban has been imposed on such companies and therefore they have not been able to hire anyone from Ukraine. However, this regulation – and this is the shameless thing for me, if you can say so – should apply in principle to all companies in Austria in the future, and this is also unlimited, ladies and gentlemen. That is, we open the market completely here, so that it can always be excluded from wrongs. This is unacceptable, and this will open the door to illegal foreign employment, ladies and gentlemen. And one more thing, when I look at it, towards the ÖVP, to the true face of the ÖVP: On the one hand – if you listen to the Minister of the Interior – you make massively mobile against illegal immigration and see that you get it, and on the other hand do it You here in this House are now officially engaged in illegal foreign employment. So, ladies. And gentlemen of the ÖVP, see that you really have a line, but don't play as you just need it!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24773	Next speaker is Mag. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24797	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are always looking for pragmatic solutions. Addressed to my Lord's Preacher: It is not about the case that someone employs deliberately, deliberately foreigners, without notifying them, but about those cases in which it happens by mistake, perhaps because of a technical defect, because of a human deficiency, where it can therefore be made credible that an employment relationship has not been reported, for whatever circumstances, but, as has been said, not for intentional reasons. It's about pragmatic solutions, because what does that mean? – Now such a case happens, and then for a year, such a business cannot employ any other foreigners, although there are many on the labour market. You spoke to it yourself: We currently have many Ukrainians on the labour market, who are legally residing with us as a displaced person, and thank God also for integrating themselves into the labour market. In order to find a pragmatic solution, a number of security measures are also provided, including the need for advice from the Regional Advisory Council in these cases. It should not be so that the door and gate are opened, on the other hand we would expressly deny ourselves, but it is about those cases in which the current provision is far too rigid, because it is only a mistake in a This is the case in the case of a company which has been engaged in an Therefore, we are sure that this discretionary room, which we thereby grant to the AMS in conjunction with the Regional Advisory Council, is a common path. That is what we would like to decide and implement. We also have to deal with a second request on these two agenda items, which is very interesting and which has been tabled by the liberals. It is about the fact that the liberals are practically assembled that there are too many people with a foreign citizenship who are reported to the AMS. I would like to make a few comments on this. First: We are in the European Union, and there is now the fundamental freedom of movement for workers. This means that people living in the European Union can in principle also pursue employment in other countries. This also applies to: The 300 000 people from Austria work and use this free movement in other EU countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We cannot limit this access to the labour market, as has been said, for European legal reasons. However, I would like to mention one aspect of integration in this context. I would even see it as particularly positive if many people with foreign citizenship also report to the AMS and apply for a job, because, I believe, we agree that integration of foreign citizens, especially those who are legally resident in Austria, or displaced people from Ukraine who are legally resident in Austria, is also taking place through the labour market. It is very desirable that they try to integrate themselves into the labour market. And they document this by reporting to the AMS as being willing to work and work. I therefore think that with this amendment of the Foreign Employment Act, we are seeking a pragmatic solution that serves both companies, if, by mistake, they have not correctly reported employment, but on the other hand, they also allow as many workers as possible – whether foreigners or foreigners – to enter the labour market and thereby generate income and secure their own existence. So this measure, I believe, is a right way to strengthen the labour market and allow a pragmatic solution. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24864	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24888	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices you still listen to! Let's take a look at the elegance of our colleague Gödl, who believed that he could sell it somehow now, and look at the facts about what's happening here: The Austrian People's Party, together with the coalition partner, the Greens – which is now little surprising – makes the Foreign Employment Act a little more liberal. We are now opening up the labour market, and in the case of illegal employment, tolerance is taking place, so black work is a bit of a cavalry crime. This is the way the Austrian People's Party is now going to have, of course, the cheapest wage workers for industry, for its donors. What you're following is nothing but the way to wage dumping. Those who then make little money can be happy with transfers again. We have already discussed this enough today, one-time payments: It makes the citizens:the workers, and they turn them into dependent persons. – This is a way we simply don’t want to go. We want all workers in this country to earn decently. We do not need a wage dumping by bringing low-cost workers who are not allowed to work here, because they do not have a work permit to work in the industry. But that's your way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl shakes the head.]] – You can shake your head now, but that’s exactly what you do with this provision. [[Abg. Gödl: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is not about the fact that something has once been overlooked, a deadline, just as you are trying to present it, but it is very much about bringing the industry low-cost workers. This is about providing low-cost workers for the IV, for the ÖVP clients. On the other hand, then, you'll be back and say, We are for very strict immigration laws! - No, you're not. They are happy if we have the lowest-cost workers so that the unit price in industry can be reduced so that the profit margin can be increased. [[Abg. Gödl: It's about capable forces! It's about social workers!]] That is the truth behind this very provision, and you will never get our consent – never! . because we are already on the side of those who work properly, who report their employees neatly, decently, who pay the social taxes that taxes. These are the entrepreneurs who are strong, but who are weak with your measure It is precisely the honest workers and honest entrepreneurs. That is exactly what we reject, and therefore we strongly reject this evasion of immigration laws, the laws of the foreign labour force. It's just about working low-cost workers. [[Abg. Gödl shakes the head.]] You can shake your head a hundred times now, we have discussed it in the committee, and this is exactly what it is all about. [[Abg. Gödl: Please! Please! We're in Parliament, not at the main table!]] This is typical Austrian People's Party: You're making client policy for your industrials and your donors. You'll never get us into the boat.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24967	Next speaker is Mag. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e24992	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Belakovich, this law has you, whether deliberately or not, but really misunderstanded, because it is not about making any regulations God knows as more liberal or avoiding or even about cheap labour. [[Abg. Belakovich: No!]] No, read the law! [[Abg. Belakovich: That's exactly what it's all about!]] You obviously haven't read the law! It is simply a question of making a system that has so far been in force in the Foreign Employment Act, a rather strict regulation, a constitutional one. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, that's not the point!]] Why? – Because the previous legal situation has provided that an employer who has been entered twice within 12 months has not employed foreigners in accordance with the rules - - - Yes, twice already, yes! [[Abg. Belakovich: Exactly, twice!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: A repeater!]] If you are a correspondingly large employer, this can happen to you once and if you are a non-profit company or an NGO without your own HR department and without house judges, you can also do so. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a repeater!]] [[Abg. Worm: Does it also have black workers?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: With the NGOs too!]] Twelve months are a long period. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] Mrs. Colleague! The previous law has provided that there is only one response to this, namely, that twelve more months no employment permit, no matter how the individual case is, whether it has been a very short-term period, whether the employer has negligently relied on the employee, the employee or whether this has happened deliberately and systematically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That is to say, there have been unfair sanctions on the subject of the law, with a clear intervention in freedom of employment and property. And this is not necessarily constitutional and, as a general rule, unconstitutional, according to the permanent jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The fact that you, Mrs Colleague, are not particularly concerned about the Austrian Constitution also proves that your motion for a resolution, in which you are making it possible to define on just four lines the succus of the current policy of this club of the Freedom Party, which is hostile to foreigners, a denial of Union law, a denial of Austrian law – and the measures against Covid-19 – at the same time only the worst pandemic that this planet has seen for 100 years – are also stupid. [[Abg. Worm: Be moderate in your tone, Mr. Cot!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Now it's enough!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Worm: Go down with the sound!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, that's right! Put your mind out!]] You can do so in your request for four lines, and I can only congratulate you on that. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25208	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 29 to 37 and continue to complete the agenda. [[21:01:17]] 36. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 2760/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in relation to payment reductions in the Chambers (1690, e.g.) 37. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1340/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on collective agreement for the Chambers of Workers (1691 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25260	We now come to points 36 and 37 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25290	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yeah, it's already around: Now come again the loacker with the chambers! But you just have to call the child by name: They're two big cash stores. We have a black money store, the Chamber of Commerce, with 1.6 billion euros of reserves, and a red money store, the Chamber of Labour, and the tension is that not only the revenue, that is, the chamber envelopes, but also the reserves that build up, grow faster than inflation. Now, from 2010 to the end of the previous year, we have had an inflation rate of 23 percent, but the reserves in the Chamber of Labour have grown by 69 percent. It is also clear that there is no argument that is often put forward: Yes, we have more members and therefore we need the money. – Well not, because if you needed the money, it wouldn’t be in any reserve, then you would spend it for member care – but it will be bunked. Then the daily “The Press” asks Mr. Chamber Director Dr. Klein: What do you need the money for, and then he says: We need to finance new buildings! – With half a billion euros in chamber deposits? I wonder if he wants to rebuild the World Trade Center. No one needs what they've got. This is money for the active population, which has been pulled out of the pocket of the people and used only for the SPÖ-pre-department organisation workers' chamber. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What the valued audiences don't know: If, for example, a Committee meeting is held in this House, then there is always someone from the Chamber of Labour in the fractional preliminary meeting of the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: And the Momentum Institute!]] – The Momentum Institute anyway. I wonder, Is that a party organization, or what is it about? Then these carpenters come from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers and say: People should earn more! - Great thing! [[Abg. Loacker!]] Yes, then leave off the workers' chamber contributions, then all have more net of gross! That would be an announcement. If the Chamber of Commerce were to reduce the Chamber of Commerce' contributions, we would have fewer additional labour costs. Now comes the following argument: That's so little anyway. I think Mr Koza will probably say: It's only 7 euros a nose anyway! – Of course it is not! As this 7 euro bill comes about, I must look forward to it. In Austria, the average employee earns 3 200 euros gross in full time. That means that this person pays in 192 Euro Chamber of Labour. Now I'd like to know how many clubs you're with, where you're paying contributions in 192 euros? [[Abg. Koza: In the SPÖ club, they pay a lot!]] No one has to come to me with legal protection, because a labour protection insurance does not cost 192 euros a year. So this is a huge money store, a money destruction machine at the expense of the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25361	Mrs Bettina Zopf. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25386	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers, who may still be watching at this hour! On your request, Mr Loacker, the Chambers: I have already said it at the Committee meeting: In good times as well as in bad times, of course, we stand at our chamber system, of course we also stand for self-administration in the Chamber. Of course you have to ask quite clearly: Where do good times come from? – We have many economic operators, therefore many Chambers of Commerce, many workers and so many Chambers of Workers contributions. Wealth does not come by itself, but prosperity is indirect policy. Thanks be to our Minister of Labour, who works to ensure that we have high levels of employment, that our businesses work and that the whole cycle runs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is his job! You don't have to say thank you!]] Your criticism of the collective agreements, Mr Loacker, of course we are taking part. We also have other instruments there, as we do in self-government. We must look at whether even in the Chamber of Workers are top earners, who are always criticized by the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] If it really should be the case that homemade top earners are employed there, then I find that very exciting. I am not a worker's chamber member myself, nor in these control systems, but I do believe that this criticism is a task for us to look at it more closely, because I do not think it is right to criticise and do it myself. That is why I thank you for your criticism. We'll take them with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25434	Next speaker is Mag. Christian Drobits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25459	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Well, I just think of it: The self-proclaimed chamber hunter rides again. He rides fast and fast and he gets more and more bitter. In the last four or five years, Gerald Loacker has already made 40 attacks on the chamber system in Austria, 40 attacks which he has now summarized in a book, and each time he laughs and says: [[Abg. Koza: 40 already!]] All right, I'll try it! Just, my dear Gerald, these attacks are not necessary. You know, we once invited you to a meeting in the Chamber of Workers, where your colleagues Fiona Fiona and Helmut Brandstätter were there. Everyone said: If you have any questions, come and see! Everyone was there, just Gerald Loacker not. I don't think that's what interests you. You're not interested in the matter, but you're just interested in destroying this chamber system, and destruction means to you: You want to make a free market economy. You want not representatives of the board to do this, but you want to achieve that the free market economy, the free market that regulates it, although you actually see in times of crisis like these years what that means. Because of the example of the reduction of the payment, which you have given me, I can answer the following: Today I spoke to the workers' chamber director in Burgenland. 8 Euro averages the working-chamber housing paid in the Burgenland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] If you lower the payment from 0.5 to 0.4 percent, this is 1.76 euros per month. Do you know what that means to the Chamber of Workers if you did it in general? [[Abg. Loacker: Nothing!]] The services, service and staff would have to be withdrawn. You would destroy the working chambers, the small working chambers. You are the guarantee that in the future workers will no longer have representation, that they will have to go to lawyers, pay them dearly, and stay on track in times of crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: How is that in Denmark and Sweden?]] You are also the one who tries in the final effect to compare the UGB and the Financial Regulation. These are pears and apples. Actually, as a learned tax advisor, you need to know that there are differences. But you don't distinguish because the thing doesn't interest you. You are only interested in the attack on the self-government, the attack on the chambers and now also the attack on the Federal Ministry, because you are now also saying in the tone that the ministry or the supervisory authority is sluggish. This too is a new attack, a new weapon you use to finally destroy the chamber system. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, but the Minister...!]] In that sense, I really ask you: Come with me again! I'll give you another hand: Let's go again, let's talk about it! They show you everything, but you don't need to make further applications in the next few years that are pointless and don't bring anything. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25547	Magnificence comes to the fore. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25576	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Loacker, I have to tell you, I'm a little disappointed by you. It is not true now that the regular applications against the chambers, the chamber system and the corresponding replies to it would not almost be a certain parliamentary folklore. But this time you do us really very, very, very easy, I have to say quite honestly, because your applications you have submitted really do not give a lot of meaning. The interesting thing is: You urge the Minister to put in place the most appropriate legal measures so that workers' chambers can conclude collective agreements, legal measures that have been in place for a long time. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, the Court of Auditors also says!]] According to § 78 Workers' Chambers Act, the Chambers of Workers already have collective contractual capacity, i.e., this legal framework condition is already given. The problem is: But the Minister has no way of forcing a collective agreement, and I do not think we want to do so either. Fortunately, there is a kind of freedom of contract, which is also protected in the ILO core labour standards. That is to say, this is a request that is in principle relatively pointless, because it is already fulfilled, but which, of course, now gives me a rather great joy, because you have still written in the explanatory text why you want to have it: because in the Chamber of Labour the salaries are supposed to be so bleak, a privilege castle, whatever. You then quote in this request: The workers in the Chamber of Labour earn really 4 700 euros gross after 40 years of employment, and that would be a privilege that no other employee or employee would have in Austria. [[Abg. Loacker: Every 40 years!]] After 40 years, 14 times, that's what your text says. This is of course very interesting. We know that in the Chamber of Workers mainly experts work. These are very often academics:in-house, well-trained people in the field of economic policy, labour law advice, social law advice, these are employees, which are very often very well-trained employees. The interesting thing is: There is an income report from the Court of Auditors. Mr. Loacker, you know him, too. If you look at the Court of Auditors' income report, which is what employees deserve, for example, after a certain degree of company membership, you can see: Employees who work in a farm for over 20 years – you have spoken of 40 years – earn 66 000 euros in the media in the year. That means 50 percent earn more, 50 percent less. Do you know how much 66 000 euros through 14? – 4,700 euros. This is the average employee income after 20 years in a farm. This is not an incredible privilege, it is not an income that represents a dream content – no! – but that’s the median after 20 years of operational membership. That is, workers' chamber staff – experts:innen, academics:interns, well-trained people who provide expertise in the representation of interests, work in consulting – earn 4 700 euros after 40 years. These are not dream salaries, they are actually relatively normal employees. If you do not believe it, look at the 2020 Court of Auditors report! The other is, of course, the usual story with the AK cover: In fact, we also conduct the discussion regularly. In 2010, the AK had 3.29 million members, and in 2022 there were 4 million members. The higher contributions result from the larger number of members alone, and income also leads to more contributions. It is also interesting if I actually charge the AK levy on the annual income – not on the twelve months – because then I come to an AK levy of 0.43 percent. We're even very close to 0.4 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25626	Next speaker is Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25656	After the defence of the Chamber of Workers by colleagues Koza, I will now return to the Chamber of Commerce again. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Again on the facts that my colleague Loacker made clear earlier: Since 2010, there has been an inflation of 23 percent. At the same time, the economic chamber deposit grew by 29 percent and the payments of the Chamber of Commerce grew by 35 percent. Thus, the Chamber of Commerce has taken more than the average cost of inflation since 2010. The question is: Does the Chamber of Commerce need this money so urgently? Is this within the meaning of the members of the Chamber of Commerce, a chamber where one cannot leave? – It is quite clear: No, she doesn't need that. One must not forget, for example, the chamber envelope 2 which will soon be celebrated again. ==References== ==References====External links== It has been launched to ensure that workers are discharged. This has become obsolete in 2003 with the introduction of the pension funds, but the chamber envelope 2 has remained. These are more than 300 million euros a year that are missing from the farms, for example, to pay higher wages and salaries in the future, or to have a better economic basis to manage even through the energy price explosion. If you compare it in the size structure, it is probably a banal example, but let's look at how other chambers come out that have fewer members: If you calculate this, there is one that is similar in the corporate structure, namely the Chamber of Commerce in Hamburg, which has 170 000 members, one third of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. It takes 50 million euros a year. If you calculate this in Austria – let's go of the external economy – we would be at 150 million euros a year. What does the Austrian Chamber of Commerce need? – 1.1 billion euros a year, a multiple of them. You have to say quite honestly, it is not comprehensible. The Chamber of Commerce is based on deposits of EUR 1.6 billion, with a budget of over EUR 1 billion. [[Abg. Luke Hammer: 1.7 billion!]] There is, of course, a call from colleagues Hammer of the Greens for solidarity in the Chamber of Commerce, which we, as NEOS, are very much in favour of. There are also voices on the part of the ÖVP, which say that you can clearly save there. It is clear that at the end of the day, the Chamber 2 costs the economy the possibility to pay higher salaries and wages. Just as we see at the Chamber of Labour that there is potential to save, there is also in the meaning at the Chamber of Commerce. In this sense: If you really want to make yourself fit for crisis, then first it is necessary to remove the chamber envelope 2. It is necessary to shorten chamber size 1. Fortunately, the sections decide on the basic budgets, and they go into the crisis differently than the Bureau of the Chamber of Commerce does. It is high time to save, and I think we should take the first step today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25695	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on agenda items 29 to 37. [[21:18:11]] Vote on agenda items 29 to 37
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e25725	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Before we enter the voting process: Do the clubs want a break? – That is obviously not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Draft federal law amending the Holiday Law, the Land Labor Act and the Home Labour Act in 1683 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Mr Koza, ladies and gentlemen, as well as an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag.a Verena Nussbaum, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The Members Mag.a Verena Nussbaum, Members of Parliament, have a supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 1 and 3 and insertion Z 1a. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Markus Koza, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the rate of introduction to Article 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag.a Verena Nussbaum, ladies and gentlemen have a supplementary or amendment request concerning Art. 2 Z 1 and insertion Z 1a. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are for this to be an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The Members Mag.a Verena Nussbaum, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Mr Koza, ladies and gentlemen, also have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading too, to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1684 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Draft federal law amending the labour contract legislation in 1685 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Petra Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Petra Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraphs 1 and 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1686 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1687 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 34: Draft Federal Act amending the Foreign Employment Act, including the title and receipt in 1688 of the Supplements. Who is for that, I ask him to sign the consent. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 35: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1689 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1690 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1691 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:24:19]] 38. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on amendment 2549/A(E) by Mrs Petra Wimmer, colleagues on the participation of fathers – reforming family time bonus (1693 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26018	We're coming to 38. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Wimmer. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26045	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We have recently heard here in the House, in the media or, of course, in the budget speech today, how much the government cares about the families. One-off payments are often listed for all Austrians, no matter how high or low the household income is. Yes, in the short term, one-off payments help, but they only help – as the name says – once. Mrs. Minister, there are families in Austria who can no longer afford daily life now. How will these families only go in November or December or in winter when the cold season comes when the annual accounts of the energy suppliers are tumbling in the house or doubling and triple the prescriptions for the next months? How are these families supposed to pay for this? The social institutions are already telling us that people seeking help are sitting in the advisory bodies that are desperate and crying. These are people who have so far not needed support from public authorities or from charities who have not yet depended on it, but are now asking for help in the institutions. You know exactly how I – you too are in contact with many people – from e-mails, from personal conversations, from letters that the single parents:innen, the minimum pensioners:innen, the families with children are particularly affected by poverty. All of this is a call for help from people who cannot resort to reserves that they could now consume in these difficult times. There are just a lot of people on the track who don't have a big lobby and who are desperate. We also need to take care of them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to my rejected request for reform of the family time bonus. As requested in my request, the government has already implemented that the family-time bonus is no longer deducted from childcare allowance. This is good, because we need every incentive – and above all a financial incentive – so that more fathers go to Karenz to bring more fathers into the family immediately after birth, as well as in the partnership of childcare. Nevertheless, the family time bonus must be reformed. It must finally be reformed. One point from my request is that there is no claim to family time bonus – that is really incomprehensible – if the mother has to stay in the hospital immediately after birth or has to go back to the hospital. It can just happen. These families, these mothers, these newborns need support and no bureaucratic obstacles. This regulation makes no sense at all, it must be changed urgently. In the Family Committee, the Greens have signaled that there should be a solution. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties, at last to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, we in the Family Committee, with a lot of requests, urge that at last movement should come into the reform of the childcare allowance. There is also a lot to be done in Austria in the case of father participation. We are lagging behind when we look at other countries like Sweden or Finland. There, the fair division of karenz among both parents is simply already lived reality. In this respect, there is still a lot of air up in Austria. I'm looking for you, Mrs. Minister: Take advantage of the opportunity of the forthcoming budget to make choices in the reforms! We expect your proposals and are happy to join them if there are improvements for the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26118	I can welcome Mrs Raab back to our house and now ask Joachim Schnabelan to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26142	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at this late hour! Mrs Wimmer von der SPÖ, at least in the last part of your speech, you have addressed the real issue and have more or less devoted your time to the family time bonus, which is in fact the subject of this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Please go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan]] They also said right away – and this is what we decided this morning – that we have adjusted this family time bonus in such a way that he will no longer be charged with the child care allowance at a later entry of the father into Karenz. Dear ladies and gentlemen and especially appreciated families! We have three pillars of family benefits. The first pillar is the direct cash benefits: the family time bonus is one of them, but also the family allowance, the multiple-child allowance, the child allowance and the childcare allowance. These are five large parts of the direct cash benefits, and all five of us have indexed and all five will be valorised in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner]] We really made a big milestone for this pillar of family benefits. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second pillar is the benefits in kind. After Mr Brunner's presentation of the budget today, Mr Lercher said very clearly that this EUR 1 billion for childcare had not yet arrived. We have decided on the 15a agreement in June – your connections, Mr. Lercher, to the Steiermärkische Landtag are good – and the Steiermärkian Landtag has agreed on the 15a agreement in July and the municipalities can now apply for this agreement and expand the childcare offer. The local authorities also receive a lot of money from the ongoing funding, in order to be able to expand the offer, in particular for those under the age of three. [[Abg. Erasim: Family time bonus, please!]] The third pillar, especially estimated families, is the tax benefits. You have to say this again: In the context of the eco-social tax reform, we have increased the family bonus plus to 2 000 euros, preferring to provide support to families this year, and to increase the amount of the child to 550 euros – which is temporarily lower – and is already paying this year. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not for everyone, only for the creditors, you know that!]] So even with this third pillar, which we still needed many years ago, we have done a lot and now have a truly generous offer for our families. In the European section, we are among the top three different numbers as regards our family benefits and have a large offer for our families. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, estimated families – 1.2 million families in Austria with 1.9 million children –: From the point of view of the ÖVP, we have done a lot in the past and also with the decisions made today for the families and there is clearly the manuscript of the ÖVP as a family party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26250	The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Ecker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26272	Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and perhaps still via live stream! Flesh and blood make you a father, but first time and love make you a dad, and not for nothing is the family period called very loving dad month. For the family, experiencing and shaping the first weeks of life is a time that never comes back in this form. The bond is well strengthened from the beginning and the involvement in the process, which is often very turbulent, because perhaps there is also a sibling in it, also strengthens the fathers. Mrs Minister, you always say that higher fatherhood participation is also your goal, and yet this SPÖ request is rejected today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is incomprehensible to us, because this concerns very few cases in which the mother has to stay in the hospital longer or during the period of the family season a hospitalization is necessary. In the application for the papal month, exactly the date of the beginning must be stated, and the mother comes home one day later or has to go to the hospital again, then the family time bonus is rejected for the entire application period. This cannot be in the sense of a father's participation, which is always demanded by the Federal Government and is also very expensive. This is totally counterproductive. Ladies and gentlemen, families need security, including financial security, and if they are not given, then fathers in advance already abandon the application because perhaps pregnancy is complicated because perhaps the mother is chronically ill, because it is foreseeable that perhaps a hospital stay might be necessary, and the danger that you will be there as a family without income, without money, is too great for many. This is precisely because the Fathers support would be very, very valuable. That the 700 euros, as we have just heard, will no longer be charged with the childcare allowance, yes, that is the only thing that can be said positively, because an adjustment of compensation for the papal month would also be necessary, not just an annual inflation adjustment. Especially in these times of enormous inflation it is not possible for many to take the family time bonus. High house! We hear it again and again: Rent, food, fuel, all of this also affects families enormously. For newborns who are not fully six months old in this year, there is also the 250 Euro climate bonus and the cost compensation. But baby food has become extremely expensive and with a newborn 19 degrees in an apartment is unimaginable. What Are you saying, Mrs. Minister, as the highest representative of the families? At the Committee meeting, there was no single speech from you on all 17 agenda items. Don't you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26322	Mrs Barbara Neßler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26346	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now saying something about which we are rather reluctant to speak in our society: When I was a child, my father came home from work very late, and we often didn't see each other anymore because I was already in bed. He didn't do that because he liked it, but because he had to. And if I were to ask in the round, then probably many of you or you could report similar experiences. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about reality on the subject: The Father's Care in Austria is still 13 percent in 2022, and in the context of this, the so-called Carework is also a subject that is still under the radar. This is the unpaid work, the housework, the child rearing, and, as we do not have to imagine, it remains with the woman. This work is always seen as self-evident. So, and what have we done about what has almost happened in the course of the package? – In a recent evaluation, 30 percent stated that they did not take advantage of the papal month, because the money replacement will be deducted later on from the childcare allowance. We've changed that. We have reformed the papal month or the family season bonus and removed the financial disadvantage. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Bernhard.]] In doing so, we have created an incentive for father participation, enabling men to be with their children in particular at the beginning. This is also so important because if you look at a re-entry monitoring now, you can see that – even if it's only under three months of age – men go in father's care – the chances of women getting back into work. This measure, as well as the increase in the amount of child care allowance, is extremely important. It's clear that we're not in the end. We will look at the smaller points – the colleague has addressed the exception for hospital stays – as well as the greater improvements in the compatibility guidelines, up to the models. We're not at the end because we have a vision where we have to go. I don't want a generation anymore, in which fathers are missing and come home from work when their child is already in bed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Both parents must have the right to spend time with their child. One day it must also make no difference whether a woman has children or not, she must always have the same career opportunities. I would like to add that there is no longer any discussion at all about who takes care of children, who takes care of care, who takes care of unpaid housework, because an equal distribution will simply be self-evident. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Where do you actually live on which planets?]] There we must come, ladies and gentlemen. We have taken one step and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26395	Next speaker is Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26424	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Neßler spoke about her or the green vision of the future of the families. I think much of it we share NEOS even as far as the future is concerned, but on the hard soil of the present is much of it still in very, very far away. Mr Schnabel mentioned earlier that family policy clearly reads the manuscript of the ÖVP. When we talk about father participation, we are actually talking about a really unresolved problem because the 13 percent of father participation is still very kind. [[Call at the SPÖ:... Problem!]] The dad month is one month at the beginning, where you get 700 euros. This is an attempt to be at home with the newborn at all times. At this point we have made some improvements that are not insignificant. For example, the partnership bonus, i.e. the model that ensures that fathers and mothers share child care time together in this phase of 40 to 60 percent, is currently used by 1 percent of parents. 1 percent! 99 percent of all families do not have a distribution within this 40 to 60 percent. In the case of father participation, when it comes to the income-dependent childcare allowance, the fathers are 30 percent. However, the 30 percent do not mean that 30 percent have taken on the larger share, but 30 percent have taken part in the income-dependent childcare allowance in some way. That means we're still talking like in the '80s and '90s that men in some form may be heroes, if they're a bit of a 1 percent or if they're one, two, three months at home. Perhaps we should also change the discourse, perhaps we should talk about mothers' participation in the future, so we say: Okay, we have the goal that this will be a matter of equality! because apparently this old discourse, in which one says: Men go more into responsibility!, not successful. The question is: Is it the political instruments, or is it the men? – I do not believe that it is for us men, fathers, but, of course, we have to go a bit far – I think we have a big topic, namely the manuscript of the ÖVP in family policy. What Mr Schnabel is so enthusiastic about, why he is so proud of, is really the scourge of a family policy based on equality, which we so urgently need. How do you recognize that? – I would like to join you directly. In the Family Committee, we have made it very clear to Mrs. Minister that we have not seen any relevant further development in father participation for years. It has promised us that it will invite all political groups to the ministry for a debate on the subject, in which we can also discuss the different models for increasing father participation. She never gave up the invitation. She simply did not invite the political groups, although she promised otherwise in the Family Committee. What is the practical fact that family policy is not a priority for the EIA in the sense of a father's participation? – The budget targets for the year 2023, i.e. the targets for developing fatherhood participation, are actually identical to those of 2021/2022. In other words, the ÖVP does not even intend to increase father participation. That's the ÖVP's manuscript. If we want a modern family image, if we want more responsibility and family benefits that support it, we simply don't need a handwriting of the ÖVP in a government in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26463	Mrs. Dr.in Susanne Raab has now made a statement on the matter. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26484	A nice evening, honourable Members! I would like to address the first contribution made by you, Mrs Wimmer, because it is really important to me. I was there this afternoon, and there were really milestones of structural changes in family policy. So just talking here about “one - time payments ” that you pour out to the families is simply not right. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party and Greens) - call of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek. ) Today it has been decided the valorization of all family benefits. It was decided today to abolish the cold progression. Yes, of course, this also supports the families in Austria. We have launched structural measures, such as investment in childcare, in recent months. Yes, never before has a government invested so much in childcare to support the federal states in the development of childcare. These are very structural measures that we are setting up. The second thing I would like to say is: Mr Bernhard, I would like to contradict you to make it clear that we have a dusty family image in the ÖVP. That's just not right. [[Abg. Bernhard: Well! ...!]] We want an equal distribution of family obligations. We do not want to dictate how families should live, but we want a living freedom of choice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The families should decide for themselves which family model they choose, and we as a state set the framework conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard]] We do not rule in the families, but we support the families in living this freedom of choice. And yes, we remove obstacles, such as through the reform steps we are taking today in the family season bonus. These are things that annoy people and the family – I know this from the conversations with the families – and so we do this today, that the family time bonus is ultimately counted on child care money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to say this later on from a personal point of view: My husband has been in Karenz for a year now, and I have seen what it actually means for the dad when he can have a very active papal role from the beginning – and I have returned here after two months. That is why I want to strengthen Fatherhood participation not only as a self-interest for mothers, but also simply because I see the added value for the fathers and for the families as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26549	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Family and Youth, and I continue to complete the agenda. [[21:46:51]] 39. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment 2608/A by Michael Bernhard, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Childcare Act (1694, e.g.) 40. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the motion for a resolution 1733/A(E) by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on the annual adjustment of family aid to the rate of inflation (1695 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26600	We come to points 39 and 40 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26628	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing here with points from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on child care and the valorization of family benefits. Second, you can already find it well. But where we see urgent need for action, this is the issue of child care. This shows us this variety of requests that are constantly being made in this committee. There is simply a need for action. The fact that all these requests would be made once, that they should be put to work, Mrs Minister, with the involvement of all the parties represented in Parliament, would be really important. The reform of the childcare allowance is simply inevitable, and we would really ask you to do so. But where we do not engage in any activity – and that brings me to the very point that we have just discussed – that is the division of karenz times in Austria. It's just fact that eight out of ten fathers don't go into Karenz, and of the two fathers who go in Karenz, only one goes for more than three months. This is also because women have no freedom of choice. It's a Mar. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It simply turns out that women continue to do most of the unpaid work. Why? – Because the educational facilities are not sufficiently extended because they are not free. [[Abg. Baumgartner: That's not true!]] - That's right. Childcare facilities are not sufficiently extended. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] – Well, it didn’t take the children’s billions if, as you say, the facilities would have been sufficiently expanded, Mrs. Colleague. [[New call of the abg. Baumgartner.]] That's where the cat bites in the cock when you say that. If the child training facilities in that country were sufficiently extended, your package would not need to divide this mogel pack of 1 billion euros into five years. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then it would not need the social security paper, which this year calls for EUR 1 billion for children's education facilities annually, Mrs Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] As mayor, you would need to know how poor child education facilities are being developed up and down in this country, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Baumgartner.]] [[Abg. Strasser:... are at home in Lower Austria!]] Lower Austria is a special example: We know that there are poor child education facilities. [[Abg. Straster: But the people are happy!]] [[Abg. Disoski: No, they are not!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] They are not free of charge either. People are only partially satisfied because women have no freedom of choice. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Straster.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] It is really inconceivable how one can ignore the issue of Father's Care that in Austria many fathers still do not go in Karenz, so ignore, dear ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Other countries show us how equality can be lived. If we look at the Scandinavian countries, let's look at Iceland, where karenz times are compulsoryly divided between both parents! By the way, it is there whether it is a rainbow family or a heterosexual family. We've already talked about it: Women continue to experience occupational disadvantages by going to Karenz. It is the unpaid years that women bubble – the women really bubble – in order to live in poverty at the end of their working life, because unpaid work is just not paid and women vote it most simply. That's just some of it, and that's why we also have to motivate fathers to go in Karenz. There is still a great stigmatization in this country. Men are confronted with prejudices, with stupid sayings in the job. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] We could abolish all of this if we were to create legal regulations for the compulsory division of periods of leave. [[Congratulations to Mr Disoski and Mr Schwarz.]] That would be really important. It's not just about the first few days or weeks together with the child, it's about a really long time with the children at home, that's important. We miss clear political statements, clear political messages, whether here, in the Committee on Family and Youth or in the National Defence Committee. There you could really send a strong signal by allowing many federal armymen, potential fathers, to go to Karenz. This request has been postponed and others are rejected. Father's choice is not a matter for this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26809	Dr. Gudrun Kugler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e26834	Mrs Holzleitner, I have just seen if I have looked at the item on the agenda or you. They have not lost a word on the two requests we are discussing, but they have actually taken up the previous item on the agenda and many other issues. [[Abg. I got it! I did! Childcare allowance...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: Quiet!]] [[Call at the SPÖ – towards Abg. Kirchbaumer –: What's going on with you]] I would like to underline what Mrs Bundesminister said, because she has done exactly what you have mentioned. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP:A rest is!]] [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress once again the speech of the Federal Minister. This item on the agenda is a completely different subject, and I would like to talk about it now. We have two requests on the value adjustment of family benefits, and I am referring to them now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner]] There's something I need to say in advance: Why have we placed so much on families in our discharge package? – That has two reasons: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Seidl.]] One is that when we relieve the families, the aid in the context of the problem of inflation comes quickly and easily to the people they need. The other reason is that families do a lot of things and we want to recognize what they do. That is why so many family benefits are included in the discharge package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We support families with a mix of measures. A lot of things have already been done: The family bonus has been increased prematurely, the amount of the child added, there are double family allowances, but also a regular legal adjustment of the family benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a decades-long call. That we have succeeded is a very big step – not only for us in this legislative period, but far beyond this period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does the value of family benefits mean? – In 2002 it was possible to buy 51 kilos of bread from the family aid per month, and in 2018 it was only 36 kilos of bread. Today it would be less. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] We are building up so that such a loss of value can no longer arise. That's very important. This may be interesting for the SPÖ: Of course, such an adjustment to value is an arm-repellent, poverty-avoiding measure. There are two proposals from NEOS, which can be criticised. I do not now take the time to deal with every single point, but a lot of what NEOS demand is already covered. There is also a request from the liberals, one to one covered by our package of measures. That is why it is difficult for me to understand why you have put this into practice once again, after we have already sent it to the Committee on Social Affairs. Perhaps it's easier to understand why NEOS are doing it, and why the SPÖ is so critical about it when you look at Vienna. [[Abg. Bernhard: Now I'm excited!]] What the covenant does is to relieve people, and this is now automatically adapted. What Vienna does is exactly the opposite: to burden people, by automatically adjusting the value not of social benefits, but of the fees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: day-order point!]] The increases in fees we see in Vienna – and now I look at NEOS in particular – not only meet the rich, but also meet the poor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] Many people who already live on the poverty line are being driven further into poverty. Vienna not only increases the fees adjusted to inflation, but far beyond. I'll give you a few examples: Since 2010, it can be said that inflation as a whole has totaled about 30 percent, but the fees in Vienna increased far more in parking plus 83 percent, graves plus 88 percent, library plus 77 percent, dogs plus 65 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:Themen Failure!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Hear!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable! We have always celebrated it.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: The SPÖ must be gone!]] Similarly, we can say about wastewater, waste disposal and Vienna lines – everything has been increased far beyond inflation. [[Abg. Gerstl: The SPÖ must be gone!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With district heating – we have already talked about it this morning – we have an increase of 92 percent. Other federal states or other cities have not done this. In Linz, Salzburg or Klagenfurt it is 15, 28 or 5 percent, but not 92. [[Abg. Gerstl: The SPÖ must be gone!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We therefore decide on regular legal adjustments for families. We won't let you do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This has an effect far beyond this legislative period. This is a measure for 1.2 million entitled persons, in favour of 1.9 million children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the times of crisis we are experiencing require a close of our shoulders. Just as you're doing politics here, I don't see him. But our hand remains stretched out.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27097	Edith Mühlberghuber is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27122	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kugler, you just asked why we made our request again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We brought him in in 2021, he has been postponed twice in committee, so he has not been reintroduced. [[Abg. Kugler:... acknowledge!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that life is getting more expensive, taxes and taxes are increasing and the cost of renting and energy is increasing. Especially the families feel the strain extreme. We say having a family must be quiet again. The state has a special obligation and responsibility, which the black and green government must also fulfil. The last price difference in family aid was increased by 1.9 percent in 2018. Inflation totalled 17.5% from January 2018 to September 2022. Let's look back a little bit further: Between 2003 and 2014 the family allowance has not been increased at all for 11 years. Go back one biterl and refer to the year 2000: Since then, family aid has decreased by 40 percent. From 2000 to today, it would have needed an increase of 40 percent, which would be the loss of value that has been lost. It is indeed true that families today receive 40 percent less than they did at the time. One cannot imagine such an enormous loss of value. It's extreme what the families have had to buy so far. Especially now, in times of record inflation, our families need to be significantly relieved and supported. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In our proposal of June 2021, which we are currently depositing, we are calling for family support to be increased to such an extent that the loss of value that has arisen in recent years will be balanced, and in the future the value of family support will be ensured by an annual index adjustment. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In part, our application will be implemented from 2023 – which is also pleasing – and family support will increase from the coming year following the adjustment factor, which is expected to be about 5.8 percent. We are pleased that the government parties accept our call for financial support for families. However, the massive loss of value that has occurred in recent years is not balanced. It is a pity that this compensation will not be implemented. Therefore to the government parties for the next time: Take over our requests completely and don't always do half things!
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27176	Mrs Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please take the floor, Mrs Delegate.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers:innen! We have already talked about this today, but because it is so great, I would like to stress it again at this item on the agenda: the indexing of family benefits – a huge success! Years, if not even decades, she was in the waiting loop, and now that is being implemented. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, at the right time, you have to say that, because inflation has been very high for months and people – we don't think we need to repeat that again – feel the price everywhere. Over 1.3 million people in Austria will benefit from this indexation. The good thing is: This goes all over the population. Family allowance, study allowance, childcare allowance – all of this is affected. The structural changes that are always and always rightly required from all sides – Minister Raab has also mentioned them – which, of course, needs to be done in family policy, which are now carried out with the valorization. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to comment briefly on two or three points of improvement, some of which have already been mentioned briefly today. Those who have children in school know that in September with the family allowance, the school start-up fee will amount to 100 euros. For many families these 100 euros are very, very important, they need them to get the school matters for the children. Well, everyone who has children – I have two children – knows: September, stress enough anyway, And then you have to wait for the money. I really think the change is very good that this start-up package will now be paid out with the family aid in August. This makes it easier for parents to take away a little pressure, and that is really a good thing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point, today also mentioned more often: the papal month. Up to now, 700 euros have been deducted if you take advantage of the papal month and later you go to Karenz as a father. This now falls away, and this is really a reason to hope that this incentive will also help more fathers to take advantage of this papal month. I remember when I was with my first child: My husband saved his vacation forever, actually the whole pregnancy, so he could stay at home for a few weeks. This situation is changing for many families now, and I am very pleased. Finally, I really want to thank all those involved in this major package. I am very pleased that approval is also very great in this House, because it is really a big step and also an important sign to the people outside that we are bringing things forward here together. - Thanks again.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27261	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27282	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Minister, I would like to take a very brief look at what you said at the previous item on the agenda, because it was also addressed to me. We talked about the father's participation. I find what you describe from your personal experience, of course great and don't want to add anything. There should always be freedom of choice in a modern family. I just think, or I want to tell you in my speeches, that what you are going to live for yourself has not arrived in the political reality of your ministry. The question of whether there is really a commitment to more fatherhood participation has not come as much as what we live at the personal level from the legislative bodies, the budget targets and from the parliamentary debates that you, as a minister, have influenced. I think that's something you need to reflect. I really want to disagree with you on two points. As a liberal, freedom of choice is also very important for us, the question is: Is there a freedom of choice for mothers and, of course, fathers if child care is not available throughout the day? A comprehensive childcare is the prerequisite for freedom of choice, and it has been prevented by several parties for decades, but in particular by the ÖVP very often. I know that the Chamber of Commerce and Karlheinz Kopf have also dared to do something about the right to childcare, but this freedom of choice does not exist today. However, freedom of choice is the basis for free choice. There is no such thing at the moment, so we need family benefits that provide a greater form of freedom of choice, and this is probably only about financial conditions – we are discussing these today. The other point I would like to object to is: You said: Fatherhood should not be “self-interest” for mothers. Of course, you are right about the high emotional value. I am a triple father myself and my youngest daughter is so big, just 13 months old, every minute I can spend with her is incredibly beautiful. [[performing a corresponding gesture]] This added value is undisputed. But – and I disagree with you – it's about the mother's purpose, it's about the mother's self-determination. [[Federal Minister Raab: But not only!]] It is about creating a system in which paternal participation is simply increasing significantly for the purpose of self-determination of mothers. This is, of course, the central objective, even in an equal family policy. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I would now like to come very briefly to our request and to Mrs Kugler, who has tried to describe a great fear scenario regarding the city of Vienna. – I am not a politician responsible in Vienna, I do not know all the details. As far as Vienna is concerned, they did not talk specifically about family policy, but they did. You say you didn't understand why our request was filed. [[Keeping a document in height]] We submitted the proposal NEOS in spring. They brought in the discharge package in the autumn. That is why, half a year before you put in your package, we have put concrete proposals for improvement in the parliamentary discourse. The fact that you did a large part of it half a year later is to be recognized. They have not dealt with two points that are central to our view, including the issue of the costing and the burden on families. One thing is: The aid you can obtain for child care if it is not enough to live has not been adapted to inflation. The second point is: In the case of dependent child care allowance, it is such that the limits of the remuneration have not been adjusted. Both are elements that have not been adapted. It has been adjusted in the area of flat-rate childcare allowances, the day rates have also been adjusted. However, some of our proposals have not been accepted – we also consider them important. It's just like this: We were half a year earlier, so we could not respond to your proposals at the time. - Good evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27343	The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27364	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “For responsibility for tomorrow – safe in the future”: With this budget speech we have started the day well, and the bow is stretching up here, because this item on the agenda is also a very pleasant one. But the more together we explain what we have done to family politics, what we have achieved, the louder the criticism of the opposition, the more the criticism of the opposition becomes. [[Abg. Bernhard: Very constructive!]] Obviously, we're doing a lot of things right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially in these challenging times, we are strengthening the families as never before. With the higher family bonus plus and the higher child surplus – it has already been said – we relieve the families of EUR 175 million this year. With the special family allowance of 180 euros per child in August, we paid the sum of 3.1 billion euros of family aid this year – an incredible value! – and, ladies and gentlemen, through the valorization of social and family benefits, we now expect a discharge for the families of 363 million euros for the year 2023 – a truly incredible achievement! [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Unmistakable!]] Thank you, Mrs Minister, for your commitment to the families in Austria, for your tireless commitment here in the negotiations, that we have a result on the table for the families that can be seen! [[Calls:Thank you]] [[Abg. Shetty: This is the woman minister already unpleasant!]] I think you're really the shooting star among the family ministers. Thank you for your commitment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you a good night now. [[Calls:Good night]] I hope and know that we have done something great for the families with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27460	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does anyone wish a final word on the part of reporting? – That is not the case either. [[22:12:14]] Vote on agenda items 38 to 40
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27485	We come to the moved votes. Can we vote? SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? ÖVP? We arrive at agenda item 38: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 1693 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. More movement, ladies and gentlemen! – This is accepted by a majority. We come to Agenda item 39: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report in 1694. Whoever does this is asked for a sign. – Thank you very much, this is accepted by the majority. We arrive at agenda item 40: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 1695 of the supplements. Whoever does this is asked for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:13:22]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2022-10-12-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00178_d8e27551	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed requests 2842/A(E) to 2873/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 13. October 2022, 9 a.m. The agenda was done in writing. I thank the Federal Minister. The sitting is closed.
