ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, guests invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:59]] There were 361 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Ruslana Bogdanović Zelika, Viktor Mikolaajovich Ostapčuk and Yuri Dmitrovča Čertkova. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let us congratulate them on their birthdays and wish them success. Deputies! Dear colleagues! You have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. That's why we're starting to work. And there's a proposition. I'm asking the people's deputies to listen. As you can see, the schedule of meetings for today provides for many important issues. Yesterday we considered only eight issues of the agenda. We passed two laws and one decree, one bill on the basis, two bills sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. And one bill and one draft decree were rejected. This efficiency is very and very small. Among the issues that are involved are a number of draft decrees for commemorative and Jubilee dates. We've only been carrying paper for six months. I have an offer. Taking these urgent questions into account, consider them first and make decisions about them without discussion. In accordance with the requirements of part five of article 27 of the Rules, I will announce the registration numbers, the names of the draft decrees for which we will make decisions, the initiators of which. And I'm going to put each of these rulings to a vote. Will you support this, national MPs? I ask who is in favour of this procedure for considering decisions on memorable dates, and I ask that you vote. [[10:05:39]] For 263 Against – 1, held – 1, did not vote – 116, total – 381. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 136, Fatherland – 50, Vitalia Klicka – 27, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a draft ruling (registration number 1065), which is a draft decree marking the 300th anniversary of the birth of Ivan Grigorovich-Barski (design of the national MP Mikoli Tomenka) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:06:53]] For 318 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote -70. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 143, Fatherland - 58, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 34, Company - 28, non-fractional - 18. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Decree (Registration No. 1067). This is a draft decree to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of Semin Gulak-Artemowski (the Bill of the People's Deputy, Mikli Tomenka), for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:07:56]] For 323 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 66. I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of 100th anniversary of Basil Svida's birth. Project of the People's Deputy, Mikli Tomenka. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:08:34]] For 328 Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 61. I'll take the order. I'm voting on the draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of Eugene Petrushevich's birth. Project of the People's Deputy, Mikli Tomenka. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:09:13]] For-179 Against 2, held – 32, not voted – 175. The factions. Region Party 29, Fatherland 66, Vitaly Klicka Strike 35, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-factional 15. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Decrees (registration number 1170), the Bill of Order marking the 150th anniversary of Timothy Bordulak's birth. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:10:11]] For a hundred and Against – 1, held – 40, did not vote – 191. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote, I'm betting on the vote, let's go through the list, and then we'll come back, because now you're confusing. Don't. Draft Decree 2070 – the celebration of 240th anniversary of Vasil Karazin (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to you later. [[10:11:00]] For-154 Against 3, held – 33, not voted – 205. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on draft regulation 20. Attention! 2075. I'll give you my word, let's go through the list, because we won't take anything. The 2075 Bill is about marking the feat of heroes under Krutami (the draft of the national deputy Oleg Tajnibok) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:12:01]] For 168 Against 7, held – 26, not voted – 191. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u2	The factions. Region Party 12, Fatherland 69, Vitaly Klicka Strike 36, Freedom 33, Ukrainian Company 0. I'm voting on the draft Resolution 2076 on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Vladimir Vernadsky (Prof. Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:13:01]] For 210 [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen! Look, I'll tell you what! Again, listen! I'll put it to the Vernadian vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] In a minute, everyone. Please, strike faction. I'll give it to everyone in a minute. Please, strike faction. I got it, I got it. Herotschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues from the majority faction, we would very much like you to work as constructively as your President and your Prime Minister, who this year, last year and the previous year, celebrated the battle of heroes under the Kruts. This is our story. And we can't share history with you. We cannot dance with you on the bones of 19 - year - old boys who died because of Ukraine’s independence. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Head! We ask you to return to these questions. Well, you can't define a vote depending on the author's last name. Think of the content of the decree, not the author of the vote! Dear colleagues, we support your constructive bills regardless of your surnames. That way we can't share the Supreme Council, we can't share our history. Dear colleagues, we ask you to return to the heroes of Kruth, return to Vernadiansky and give the constitutional majority here. Please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u4	Party of regions, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head! There was a misunderstanding because we had not heard the name. [[B in m in s a l in]] So maybe we should talk about these decisions after all. When we discuss these decisions, people at least get to know each other. There has indeed been a misunderstanding about the Vernadian vote. I propose to return to the vote in the same way as with the hero Kruth, who is celebrated at the state level every year. Please. This was a literal misunderstanding, and it needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u6	Yes, Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u7	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, this day is likely to be remembered by many. I'm convinced that, unfortunately, very unfortunately, some of the people in the Party of Regions have higher education, but no secondary education. Listen! () [[Applause]] Look, who's Karazin? An outstanding scientist, whose name is Kharkiv National University, and Chechtov's hand mows trin-grass not to vote for it. Vernadiansky, listen, people with a world name that we have a Ukrainian, Chechchev's hand cuts trin-grass. I don't know. Shame! I just don't know anything else, I'm asking you to come back to this, even though I can fix it. And Croats -- just like that, you put on the wreaths, you shed this artificial tear, and you can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u8	I beg you, the Communist faction, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u9	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Here some spoke of the division of Ukraine, referring to the past, a distant history. And I'm going to remind you of a few days ago, as you shared Ukraine, when it celebrated the most sacred holiday on May 9. Here's your partition of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the first one. [[Applause]] The other one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Trinity, we also studied in schools and we know how you studied. [[B in m in s a l in]] Third. Volodymyr Vasilovich, the point is that we need to accept the principle question. They did not vote for Vernadian and Karazin for just one reason: the memorable dates, unfortunately, have passed. I mean, if we come up with an agreement that, despite the fact that the anniversary date is over, but we still vote, then there's absolutely no doubt that we need to support these decisions. But you have to define the principle: the back number is whether or not we're marking the date. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u10	Please, from "Freedom" who? Farion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u11	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! I want to emphasize what I reported yesterday. What's happening in the hall today is a testimony to a very deep, colonized consciousness. I would very much like us in this room to help each other get rid of the colonial way of thinking. I would very much like the Supreme Council to stop being a business club and a way of making money, and also to be not only an environment for knocking on primitive bills, but rather a strategy for our nation's development. Our humanitarian field is catastrophically polluted by the Soviet perception model of the world. These decisions that have been made by the Committee on Spirituality and Culture are one of the most powerful ways of decolonizing our consciousness. So not to support the Petrusevic ruling, which means to deny the beginning of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, because despite this man's controversial outlook, this is one of the most powerful parliamentarians of the 20th century. Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u12	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u13	not to vote in favour of the decision of Timothy Bordulak – it means to deny the national foundations of Ukrainian education and education and not to accept the crucial role of the spiritual factor in the development of the state, except that Timothy Bordulak was a Greek-Catholic priest. So the suggestion: I suggest we go back to voting on this question not just to put it to the vote again, but to open up every decision, it's open.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u14	Thank you. Postfaction Lace, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The glorious city, the place where the heroic battles of Kruth were taking place, was my 208th constituency. I'd like to ask Anna Mikolayevna Herman, who knows the story well, to tell the story of the battle under the Kruts of members of her faction. I want to prevent the events under the Kruts, the heroic battle under the Kruts, where hundreds of young Ukrainian students put their lives in order for Ukraine to be independent, has been marked by state, emphasis, levels for many years, including with the support of President Yanukovic's Administration. And it's surprising that President Yanukovic's faction isn't. refuses to celebrate these events. So I'm asking you to go back to the draft decree on marking the battle under the Kruths and to support it as well as the projects of the Vernadian and Karazin Academy Orders. I'm hoping that the three-fe, five-fe, will finally learn who the Vernadian is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's an offer, all the factions have said, there's an offer to go through the entire list. Questions that are not agreed upon, all MPs have made proposals, come back, and then I'm from the first one that hasn't accepted, we'll discuss and we'll make decisions, so let's move on. Let's go. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of Decree 2077, marking the 190th anniversary of the birth of Constantine Uszynski (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:23:16]] For 369 Against 0. It's been held down to two. There was no vote on 32. I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote of the Order (registration 2108) to mark the 60th anniversary of Flower Cisik. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. To be accepted as a basis, and in general, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll go back, I said, and we'll talk. [[10:24:02]] For 185 Against it, 1 / 1 It's held up to 22. There was no vote – 196. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (1109) to mark the 110th anniversary of Natalie Zabila's birth. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. To be accepted as a basis, and in general, please vote. Please vote. [[10:24:48]] For 371 Against 0. It's been held down to two. There was no vote – 33. I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order 2131 marking the 120th anniversary of Basil Vasilk's birth. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. To be accepted as a basis, and in general, please vote. [[10:25:30.]] For 368 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 36. I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (2134) on the 1025th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lubna Poltava district (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Pilpenka) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:26:16]] For 375 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 30. It's been decided. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (2184) to mark the 150th anniversary of Vladislav Grodecki's birth (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:26:57]] For 375 Against - 0, held - 0, not a vote - 32. I'll take the order. I'm voting on the Bill of Order (number 2332) to mark the 110th anniversary of Boris Gmiri (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:27:43]] For 372 Against 172, against - 0, held - 1, did not vote - 34. I'll take the order. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (2462) to mark the 150th anniversary of Olga Kobilianski's birth (the draft of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:28:26]] For 369 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 38. I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u17	I'll make the best of it. We'll make the best of it. I am voting on the draft Decree (2463) on the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the National Deserving Academic Ukrainian People's Choir of the name Grigory Gurievich Veryovka (the draft of the People's Deputy of Viacheslav Kirilenka) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:29:24]] For 383 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 24. I'll take the order. I am voting on the draft Decree (2464) on the 100th anniversary of the National Academy of Music of Ukraine, Peter Illich Tchaikovsky (the draft national deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenko) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:30:14]] For 383 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 26. I'll take the order. Dear people's deputies, let's do it in order. We didn't take the decision, the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of Eugene Petrushevich's birth. I ask the factions for a minute on the basis of the vote, and the author. We'll go through every project now. Please give me a minute of each faction. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I have come up with a number of principles in my decisions, and I believe that we must act there. The first principle is, of course, a meaningful principle. So we have to take the basis of those people who for Ukrainian history, culture, literature whose traditions have laid the foundation that we can use and serve today. When it comes to Eugene Omelanovic Petrushevich, there is a double experience. On the one hand, this is parliamentary experience, because its work in both the Austrian and Polish parliament provides an opportunity to show how it represented Ukrainian interests while in the parliaments of these countries. But more importantly, as President of the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, who was able to agree with the leadership of the Ukrainian People's Republic during that difficult period, as a result of today's celebration of the Ukrainian National Assembly Act. Then the festival of the congregation should be cancelled if we are to support the Jubilee of Petrushevich. So I would like to vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Let's do it in order. Is it? None. Fatherland, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! There is no reason not to support the decision to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Eugene Petrushevich, above all on state grounds. This is if you move away from politics and simply report to yourself: who supports the existence of an independent Ukrainian state and who does not. Yes, those in the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of the factions that support the existence of an independent Ukraine, should vote in favour of this decree. Why? Because in the turbulent 1917-1921s, Ukraine fought for independence. Two republics have been created: The West Ukrainian People's Republic and the Ukrainian People's Republic. And on January 22, including the current president, we go to the Sofia Square every day, to other areas of the country to celebrate the Day of Assembly and the Zluka Act. So, Eugene Petrushevich of the Western Ukrainian People's Republic signed this Zluka Act. I urge, at least, the Party of Regions to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u21	Are there any more who want to go? Pharion, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u22	Dear Society, thank you to the previous reporting on the state - owned accent of Petrushevich, but I would like to highlight another important thing that this man has advocated. There was a struggle for the representational quota of Ukrainians in the Polish Seima and Austrian. And it was by the efforts of Petrusevic that the number of Ukrainians from 12 was increased to 62 mandates. And since the Ukrainians in the Polish Seima received 62 mandates, this made it possible to discover in Lviv the Ukrainian University, and education is a positive trend in the development of the state. And I would also like to emphasize the overwhelming things that, while on emigration, Petrusevic continued to compete for the individual status of Galicina, underlining the permanent colonization of Galicina by Poland. And in the end, despite yog's controversial views, his life is a powerful example for serious analysis of his fate and of the ways of nation-building. We ask very much for this determination to be supported as a symbol of the unity of the U.N.R. and the U.N.R. as the destiny of the East to the West. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u23	Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, we must return to this question and vote. It was a great figure who stood up for the union between East and West, for the great Ukraine. June 3 is 150 years old from the date of the birth of Eugene Omelanovic Petrushevich. I call on the faction of the Party of Regions to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u25	I beg you, the Communist faction, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u26	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, those who speak and teach us stories, are once again one - sided with this story. They speak half the truth. Yes, there is truth about who Petrushevich was, who ZUNR was, what UNDP was, and so on and so forth. At the same time, however, the experience that failed, since neither UNR nor UNR had united, had created a separate state that existed to this day. All those who are voting now deny another undeniable fact – they deny the historic fact of reunification for the first time in the history of all the Ukrainian states that took place in 1939, 1940, 1944, 1946. That's what they forget. They forget who created that nation, which essentially exists within the same boundaries as today. And they only rip out one-sided pages. So be just and learn history.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u27	Thank you. There's an offer to go back to Rule 1069. Attention, I'm putting the vote back on the table. Please vote. [[10:37:02]] For 334 Against 0, held – 1, not voting – 75. That's the way it's done. I now put to the vote the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Eugene Petrushevich (the Tomenka People's Project) (registration number 1069). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:37:50]] For 330. Against-0, held-2, didn't vote-79. It's been decided. According to factions: 157 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 77, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 36, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. On the basis of the vote, I ask you to speak to the factions, the draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of Timothy Bordulak's birth. Please, by the factions. To the author, Yavorowski, please. Don't shout, don't hear anything. What do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to remind a great believer that Ukraine didn't happen at the beginning of the twentieth century, not because Petrusevic was there, anyway. And because the army of Muraviova, at the direction of your chief, entered Kiev and began to shoot all who walked either in the embroidery or speak English. That's the basic reason. Timothy Bordulak is an outstanding figure who was oriented towards the great Ukraine, East Ukraine, as the Galicians call it. First of all, he was an outstanding priest of the time, an educator. We have no right to forget about him. I'll say one more thing. When we take these decisions, Vladimir Vasilovich. In order for the government to respond to them, the whole year is today. And let's not pay any attention. Which means someone over there has passed this Jubilee. The whole year is going to be a celebration. Vote for Timothy for the Jubilee of this beautiful man.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u29	Are there any more? Freedom Union, Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u30	Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress the six reasons for the need to vote for Timothy Bordulak. First of all, it's a Greek-Catholic priest, namely, the Greek-Catholic clergy at that time were the main state-owned capital colonized by Poland. The other one. This is a Galician writer whose word was the main weapon in the struggle against Galician captivity. And it's because of these figures that Galicina stood up, and it's Ukrainian, and it's not Polish. Third. The subject matter of his work is overwhelming with his national and social fulfillment, which is now absolutely not evidence of what is now called post-modern Ukrainian literature, of course. Next. He is an expert in ten languages, a translator that made the works of Turgeniev, Dostoyevsky in translations of foreign Russian understandable to the Ukrainians. Fifth. His works were mainly printed in the east of Ukraine, for primarily East Ukraine needed the truth about the national and social oppression of Galicians in particular. Thus he joined the East and the West as inseparable joint vessels. And the last. This is a sign educator who founded an exceptional Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u31	Yes, who else would? Labunska's post-faction deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u32	Labunska, 63th Election District of Žitomirščina. I want to address all my fellow national deputies and remind us that we are representatives of all the people who live in our country. I think we had a different story, we had different pages, we had some people backing up some views, we had a different part supporting other views. But this is all our country, this is all our history. We need to be able to observe dates that are sacred to some part of our population. People who do not remember their history and past have no future. Let's remember that we're Ukrainian national deputies, we can't represent East or West -- they're all our people, our whole country, our story. And I want to encourage all of us to respect the different thoughts that exist in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Kolesnichenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I believe that the faction of the Party of the Regions will determine the voting on this person. But I would like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine, our deputies and respectable Vladimir Vasilievich, just 20 minutes ago a new faction appeared in Parliament, they declared it a chorus, they shouted "idiots" and indicated their place. So I ask you to understand whether we have a new faction or people who have shown who they are by their mental content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u35	Did everyone say that? I'll bet the MPs on their return to decision 1170. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:43:24]] For 197 Against 3, held – 23, not voted – 84. Decision taken. Let's go. Yes, by factions. Region Party 29, Fatherland 78, Vitalia Klicka Strike 33, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 20. On the basis of the vote, the draft Decree on the celebration of 240th anniversary of Vasil Karazin (draft by the national deputy of Yavorowski). The author is requested on the grounds of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters who are now listening to us! Our Ukrainian destiny was so great that it was mainly from Ukraine. Ukraine exported better minds, better voices, singers, artists, and writers to Russia. Clearly, that's what happened. But I would like to point out that Karazin (not Carazin, but Karazin, by the way, he just reverses, showed a reverse trend that many intelligent really and patriotic people who grew up in Russia, in the Russian environment, then returned to their roots, to their nest, to their own kind. Karazin is one of those people. It's an outstanding scientist with a world name. And it wasn't by chance his name, in fact, that much of his life went through in Kharkiv, that he was the one who founded the harkian science school. It's Kharkivsky University.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u37	Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, it is necessary to vote in favour of the commemorative date from the birth of Vasil Nazarovich Karazin, at least because his name is one of the largest in the country, Kharkiv University. And he founded this Kharkiv University, in 1805 in Ukraine, this first university came into existence and worked for the benefit of Ukraine until now. As for Karazin himself, he was a liberal man and, by the way, he received the Schleselburg Fortress for his liberal views in the then Russian Empire, including for playing with the Ukrainian question -- two years he was politically repressed, two years, 1831, 1832. Maybe it's kind of holding back the vote here for the Party of Regions, so I think that's not the reason that it should hold back, but it should be motivation and incentive, because it's a great scientist who has a lot of inventions in organic, inorganic chemistry and his name bearing our Kharkiv University.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u39	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u40	Igor Schwaika, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkishte. Society, I'd like to make a little brochure after I say I'm pretty sorry. I'm sorry for the MPs from the Kharkish region party, for Ostapchuk, for Schenchev, for Dobkin, and I don't know how these people are going to look at the students of Harkow University right now in Kharkiv. So this is a little elegance today: Basil Karazin was an enlightened man, regardless of his diverse views. It was a person who bought over three thousand books for the university. This is the person who has overcome the fierce opposition of the then Kharkiv governor, the man who rejected the scholastic traditions and built the foundation of the University of Kharkiv on a fundamentally new foundation. This is the man who carried the tradition that the University of Kharkiv stands on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u41	The "Regions" faction, MP from Harkushka Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, by rejecting any political motives, you know, maybe the first vote was a sad mistake, but I want us not to be involved in politics right now. Basil Karazin is an outstanding figure for Kharkushina and for the whole country. I want to remind you that it was because of Karazin that a university came into existence, which in fact became the basis for the development of education in Ukraine. And those universities that now make up all the scientific power of Kharkish and of Slobojansk and of Ukraine have also emerged thanks to Vasil Karazin. The faction of the Party of the Regions will, of course, support and vote for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u43	The Communist faction, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich and the distinguished people's deputies, we've just returned to the question that I've been asking, that we need to make a deal. The Communist faction will unreservedly support the marking of this famous historical figure in our statehood. But there is one "but," which we have to agree on, I think, and support this proposal. Sadly, 240 years after Karazin was born, it was February 10th. I mean, if we agree that we support the proposal, despite the fact that the date has passed, and I suggest we support it, there is absolutely no doubt. And our faction will vote unanimously in favour of this date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a problem. But for six months the Supreme Council did not have time to consider these issues. So let us at least consider these questions later. Yeah? Yes. Deputies' proposals: go back to the 2070 Project. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:50:14]] For 375 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 38. Decision taken. We're back. There is a vote on the draft Decree (2070) marking the 240th anniversary of the birth of Vasil Karazin (the draft national deputy of Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:50:57]] For 376 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 36. I'll take the order. We have two decisions left. On the basis of the vote, the draft Decree (No. 2075) to mark the feat of the heroes of the battle under KrutAma. Krutami. On the basis of the vote. Please, Kirilenko, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u46	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! After all, in Ukraine, they don't say Cruises, they say Cruises, and that's important, because people listen to us. And under the Ruts, there have been many acts of government, both in the past and even in the present. That is, without even looking at the Ukrainian hateful views that even here and in the hall are demonstrated, the present officials are forced to go here to the Ashold grave led by Prime Minister even Azarev and to place flowers to honor the memory of the heroes of Krut, who were destroyed 10 times by the beast. and more than, hundreds of times the overwhelming army of the Russian Bolshevik who attacked the Kiev. When she entered Kiev, she killed all those who spoke the English language. We need to vote on this decision for the memory of these heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u47	Freedom Union, please, MP Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u48	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society! I'd like to mark three aspects of the battle under the Kruts. First of all, it is a spiritual aspect. Because for us the heroes of Krut and the battles under the Kruts, these are Ukrainian farmers, where three hundred Ukrainian Spartans have given a battle to the 5,000th army and actually lifted the nation from a lethargy sleep, lifted the nation from its knees. There's a second moment. This is first of all a military, military moment. Because the fighting stopped the coming army for a few days, the young Ukrainian State was able to evacuate several thousand civilians into its country. And there's a third geopolitical moment. After this fight, the Brest-Litov Peace Treaty was signed, which recognized the Ukrainian young state. Moreover, a treaty of peace has been signed in borders that were 30 percent larger than the present borders of Ukraine. These are for the uneducated Communists who continue to live on in 1939. So, society,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u49	Please, Rudzkowski of the Party of the Regions passed the word to Hanni Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u50	Dear friends! The Party of Regions and the faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council will support the decision to designate the heroes of Kruth as a reminder of those children who died because of irresponsible decisions made by their commanders who abandoned the students to their faithful death. We should honor the memory of those children. And if we're already here today, if the opposition is always teaching the Party of Regions what to do, then I'd like to tell the honourable master of the writer who said that people were being exported to Moscow for the Russian empire. People aren't goods. People don't export. Please honor those who have died before, have gone away, and those who are now, and remember that humans are not goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u51	Okay. The deputy from Montenegro is Rudzkowski, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I appeal to all to honor the memory of young boys who have demonstrated to the entire European community that Ukrainians are worthy to have their own state, that they have fought for their young state. I think that we, the people who are building the legislative field of the new Ukrainian state today, should remember that thousands, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have given their lives in the struggle for an independent Ukrainian state. That is why I ask, in honor of the memory, to vote, to support this decision. The battle took place on the famous Montenegrin land, in areas where the Cossacks originally lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u53	Deputies! Attention! Please, National Deputy Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u54	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Again, let us turn to history. On the one hand, it's kind of educational, and at the same time, it's a tragic page in our history. The tragedy and disdain of this page is that the leaders of the Ukrainian People’s Republic threw their children into battle, and at the same time, according to historical evidence, some of the officers, when the children were lying on the battlefield, were intoxicating in the wagons at the station. Here we can talk, indeed, about the fact that the leadership of the Ukrainian People's Republic, which feared its people, and with certain military forces, did not abandon these armed forces under the Kruta, and these armed forces left them in Kiev because they feared that the workers would turn to the so-called UNR leadership of the neck and took place at the expense of the young. That is, by heroizing youths, speak historical truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u55	I would like to propose to the National Deputies to return to the consideration of Decree 2108. Members, please vote. I'll bet you a vote. I'm sorry, we're in. Take down the vote. We're considering draft regulation 2075 on the return to consideration. Please vote. We're back. [[10:58:35]] For 345. Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 70. Decision taken. I'm voting on the Bill of Order (2075) to mark the feat of the heroes of the battle under the Kruts (the National Deputy of Oleg Tuggnibok) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:59:15]] For 339 Against - 3, held - 2, not voted - 71. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 158, Fatherland - 83, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 25. I ask the deputies to speak on the grounds of the vote, the draft Decree (2076) on the commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Vladimir Vernadsky. Do you need to speak up? I am voting on the proposal of the deputies to return to the ruling. Please vote. [[11:00:23]] For 387 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 29. Decision taken. I now put to the vote the draft Decree (2076) on the commemoration of the 150th anniversary of Vladimir Vernadsky's birth as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:01:00]] For 388 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 28. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 179, Fatherland - 81, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 35, Company - 31, non-fractional - 27. Last ruling on the grounds for voting on the 2108 draft, the author, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, our constituents! If I insist on what was actually going on, there was a big shift, and from Ukraine, they sucked out intelligence, voices, and so on. But we have a unique example in the person of Tisik the deceased. 60 years later, we just marked it, and it was actually eaten by cancer. She was a brilliant singer who was born in America, but she dedicated her entire life and her golden voice, which was proud of the whole of America, to a Ukrainian song. It brought together a Ukrainian diaspora all over the planet, and its catches were being transmitted here to Ukraine, and in the early '90s, in the late '80s, we were fascinated by these songs. Not to mention today's unique voice, it could be our Nina Matvienko, maybe our Kirichenko, or something like that. But "Inter" made an amazing film that, myself, "Inter," I emphasize, made about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u57	Please, strike faction, national deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u58	I'd like to pick up a phrase from Yavorowski's last and ask for a TV channel called Inter: "Please, dear colleagues, give every member of the Party of Regions a CD with your beautiful film about Tisik Flower." And really, I think today we have an important vote that we have to take on ourselves. We all need self - education to associate with you with knowledge and literature. Mr. Head, I want to show you this magazine that we've all been published today, it's called the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Faces. Mr. Head, and here comes an ad after every national MP of the Lux class: Boucheron, Chopard and so forth. You can do that. And it's called the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Faces, so that's what we're associated with in society today. You know, you can make them associate with books, with literature, with intelligence, not with these luxury class decorations, so that they don't be printed near our faces, and that we don't associate with these questions by Ukrainian MPs. Let us do our utmost, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u59	Thank you. National Deputy Olesia Donny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out, in support of this decision, that this is the same thing as the celebrations that have been held every year in the village of Lisca in Kolomyszky – a literary and artistic festival is organized by both writers and writers, a local idealist romantic who, Jaroslav Yasinski, and who fully supports and, honor and praise, the district administration at the head of the Shishanuk. So this is about the cooperation of different people with different political views, because everyone is aware of the importance of this figure of Flower Tisik. Therefore, there is a proposal to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u61	Freedom Union, Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u62	Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that, according to the 1987 Ford Company, the audience of the famous lioness, Cisik, was an audience of over 12 million, let's think about it, this singer had a unique coloring soprano. This singer released her first CD in 1980, there in far - off America, which was of course called the song of Ukraine. These songs of Ukraine were then a form of protest against the Soviet captivity of our nation. In 1989 the next disc, called Two Colors, was released. And one more thing. I would like to take this opportunity to thank her American producer Alex Guttmacher, who is doing a unique educational work in America today so that her voice will continue to sound, as well as the deputy city councillor Lvivsky, not "liberal" at all, Roman Gritzevich, for promoting the creativity of Flower Cisik. In Lviv we open the street of Flower Tisik, prepare the opening of the scene, and prepare its museum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u63	I'm asking for the Fatherland faction, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the already-deputy corps and support the Cisik Flower Order. Again, from a governmental point of view, everyone knows that Ukrainians live not only in Ukraine but rather in the United States, Canada, Australia, Russia, Kazakhstan, and many other countries around the world. But they don't usually become Americans, Canadians, Russians, but they leave their Ukrainian identity behind. That's how unique Flower Tisik was if anyone thinks from a parliamentary majority that she was American and that's why we don't have to vote right now, he's wrong. The flower of Tisik was Ukrainian, it was born there, it was not once in Ukraine, and it began to sing amazing Ukrainian songs, and the whole world began to listen. There was only one time in Ukraine in 1983, and it was in the background, so no one would know about the Soviet Union. We have to pay her respects and vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u65	I am voting on the proposal of the National Deputies to return to the consideration of Decree 2108. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:07:48]] For 227 Against 3, held – 20, not voted – 166. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 47, Parenthood 85, Vitalia Klicka hit 38, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 22. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 2108 on the celebration of 60th birthday of Flower Cisik (the draft of the national deputy of Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:08:48]] For 208 Against 3, held – 27, not voted – 174. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions is 24, Fatherland is 86, Vitalia Klicka is 38, Freedom is 35, Ukraine's company is 0, non-fractional is 25. Let's move on in the daytime. The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Legislative guarantee and practical guarantee of the status of Ukrainian as a national language" (Registration No. 2767) is being considered. And how will we consider the question? Short-term. Please vote. [[11:10:16]] For-191 Against 109, held – 10, not voted – 105. The decision is a reduced procedure. Report to the author of the draft decision, Alexander Sergiyovich Dony. Where is he? Please report. And then he's the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u66	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I'm very sorry that the hall didn't support the Cisik flower decision. I think sooner or later we'll get back to this idea. And I don't have the task of tearing the hall apart right now, so that there's no such thing as a pity for acceptance. You know, abnormally for the 23rd year of independence of Ukraine to fight for Ukrainian language, it would be abnormal for a normal state. Sadly, it is a covert fact that we have to fight for the Ukrainian language again. A few months ago, 300 well - known politicians, writers, musicians, writers, journalists joined the Ukrainian Committee for the Protection of Ukrainian Language. In this session room, several deputies, not only I alone, I am the name of a special one: Dony, Stec, Benjuk, Ariev, Mattios, Rosenko, Briginec, came up with this initiative. I have a big request, I understand that there are very big arguments against the activities of the Minister of Education, against the activities of those who, unfortunately, hate Ukrainian language, but I have a request for all: let us realize that we live in the Ukrainian State -- and that there is no other place to develop Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian language than Ukraine. Let's just talk about the problem. I'll remind you that there were hearings in this session room yesterday, parliamentary hearings about the National Bookstore, where both Maria Matios of UDA and Hanna Herman of the Party of Regions were speaking, and where the publishers were speaking. So please: let's do this hearing about the situation with the Ukrainian language, which the state can do to support it, which we can do for the progressive study of Ukrainian language by Ukrainian citizens. I'm talking about study because I was born in then, most of the time, Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u68	And I know how hard it's been to learn Ukrainian at one time. Let's help the nation learn Ukrainian, the state has to take this responsibility and vote for these parliamentary hearings. I urge you to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u70	Thank you, Mr. Head. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, the formal part. The committee considered the draft decree made by Oles Donnie and his colleagues, many of them from different factions, on April 3. And we have agreed to make such a draft decision for the Parliament to be considered so that it can be supported. So the committee supports it. For the actual part that we had to think about. Well, we liked the name and the idea: "Legislative guarantee and practical guarantee of the status of Ukrainian as a national language. This is a practical guarantee of the status of the Ukrainian language as a state language is now limping on both legs in the Ukrainian State. We don't have to do any analytical research: we turn on Ukrainian television, we turn on any channel from the state, from UT-1, we don't see any film in the state language, we see fewer programs running in the state language. And when it comes to commercial private channels, the state language is virtually missing on all television programs as the language of all movies, like the language of all cartoons for children and so on. This is how the Ukrainian State actually realizes the state status of the Ukrainian language. It's the same government. Half the government does not use the national language in its activities. The House of Deputies is the same: a large number of deputies do not use the State language in their activities contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The language of advertising, the language of public enterprises -- all of this needs a practical solution. In addition, 10 laws have already been introduced to Parliament, which provide for amendments to the Language Act. Clearly, they are sometimes mutually exclusive. In order not to go into the room right away, it would be very appropriate to discuss all these bills in the parliamentary hearing regime first. That's why we support Donya's initiative, and we ask you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Please sign up for factions. Two for, two against. Please. Please, the faction of the Motherland Union, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u72	Andrew Pavlovski, "Fatherland" of the Julia Timoshenko faction. Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u73	I give the word to the Deputy Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u74	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, after the disgrace she took on her head. took on its head the sixth call of the Supreme Council when a terrible adventure was met against the statehood of Ukrainian language in the form of the law of Kolesnick and Kiwalov, which, once again, covered Parliament with shame. And second of all, I've shuddered at actually all of Ukrainian society back then and today. We must discuss this very difficult, painful issue openly at parliamentary hearings rather than in a culinary way. But he's afraid of nothing. What's going on today. We know how the series went. I don't even know what to call them, session, when in August-month district council members were sent to the session to make a brilliant decision that they were introducing a second state language in their territory. This is when article 10 of the Constitution is very clear, and I will quote it, and it says, "Ukrainian language is the only national language in all of Ukraine." I repeat, all over Ukraine. Today they have torn Ukraine apart because there are regions where there is bilingualism and there are regions where one national language remains. These questions need to be discussed. Discuss wisely, but talk boldly. Otherwise, we will face a huge problem when the Ukrainian language has been exposed to the new absolute threat today. Kirilenko also mentioned and spoke about the narrowing of the use of the Ukrainian language. As a result, let us not be afraid. I think that Parliament has the authority to discuss these issues and to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u75	Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u76	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Farion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u77	National Deputy Pharion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u78	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! I want to remind you of the banal truth that language is part of the concept of the constitutional system. Of course, there are people in this room who need the Constitution as much as an umbrella fish. But of course we will. So it's very important for us at those parliamentary hearings to engage the intellectual elite as the main voice of the Ukrainian society, which clearly does not accept the position of language in our country, which has occurred especially since the adoption of the Marauder language by Kiwalov, Kolesnick. However, I would like to thank those miserable scandalous politicians for their ability to mobilize Ukrainian society in the face of the colonization of our nation in this brief time. Because Russian-Ukrainian bilingualism in our country is not a natural phenomenon, but a consequence of the occupation of Ukraine by Russia since 1654. This means that the informed Ukrainian community was very actively mobilized against the laws of Kiwalov, Koleshnichenko. And today we have just 28 percent of the people in Ukraine who support bilingual status. And there's more. I would like to point out that it is extremely important for us to hear new, radical ways to return and to establish the status of the State language. The emphasis is also on the fact that the Ukrainians are a nation of title in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian language has to rule completely and unconditionally in all the kingdoms, starting with the educational sphere and ending with the business sphere. Therefore, the nonspeaking of the Ukrainian language in Parliament is seen as the highest form of colonization of thinking, primitiveism, and stupidity.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u79	The Communist faction, the national deputy of Biyovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u80	Dear comrades, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is now a long time to move from theory to action. Look, in Soviet times, the book was being published, movies were being made. I had 300,000 people at Donbass who studied and worked in creative circles. Everything was done to develop the Ukrainian language. For 20 years now, the communists are not in power, there are all the laws, all the necessary legislative frameworks for the development of Ukrainian language, but except for the screams of "Ukrainian" and the very recognition that there is an idiot, we hear nothing. Instead, it would have been best if one of Chevchenko's editions had been published. But it's also another system. When the Ukrainians left power, the capitalist power found nothing but how to destroy the economy in the country, and as a result today 7 million Ukrainians live, carry pots behind Europeans and speak nothing but Ukrainian. And thanks also to those who are yelling "Ukrainian" today, because it is precisely the people from Ternopolsk, Ivano-Frankovsky, Lviv regions that have driven away. The Ternopolis area, where Freedom takes over most of the local councils, let them take better care of themselves and make jobs available. Because if you take the same town of Donetsk, there are 400,000 more white wages in Donetsk alone. That's more than the entire Ternopolis area. Instead of shouting "Ukrainian" today, it has long been necessary to move on to specific socio-economic issues. I've got everything, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u81	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u82	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Indeed, we have a very interesting situation in which, in our own Ukrainian state, we have to protect the Ukrainian language from the power itself, from some representatives and national deputies of Ukraine who are still unable to master the Ukrainian language. So, of course, the impact faction unanimously supports the holding of such parliamentary hearings. But please, Vladimir Vasilovich, you can listen to me! Vladimir Vasilovich! Vladimir Vasilovich, I want to see you now. Vladimir Vasilovich, I have the impression that some of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus is openly harassing you as the Head of the Supreme Council and us as national deputies. Look, we're looking at three parliamentary hearings. The decrees were registered in mid - April of this year, all three decrees. On March 7th, the Faction UDA made a decree to hold parliamentary hearings on the consequences of pension reform. I spoke on four occasions at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you've been asked four times to include this issue in the agenda. And again today we see the order of the day, and again this determination does not persist in the order of the day. I'm no longer asking, I'm asking, the strike faction, for Tuesday's first question, we'll consider holding parliamentary hearings on the future pension system. We can't hide our heads in the sand today. Today, pension reform has failed. We're approached by people when they're promoted. We don't know when the second level of accrual pension insurance will be introduced. We don't know what the authorities are going to do with this pension system at all. We need to consider this question. I ask you once and for all to give an order to the Machine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, have you all spoken? With regard to parliamentary hearings, we have 30 committees, and Sunday is much less. Therefore, committee hearings should be conducted. I was head of the committee for five years. I was head of the committee for five years. But seven parliamentary committee hearings, we had 500 of them, 400 of them. I'm asking you to hold the committee hearings. As we define Parliamentary here, well, I'll give you a line, well, we will. Please. Replica, two words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u84	Vladimir Vasilovich, I fully agree with you on this. Absolutely 100 percent. But the issue of reforming the pension system is a matter of national importance. This question concerns 46 million Ukrainians. It's not a committee hearing, you understand that. What is more, there is a committee decision that everyone on the committee has unanimously supported: that this issue needs to be considered. So I'm asking you, you've given the commission, let's take this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u85	Yeah, did everyone say that? I'll put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down and prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Resolution (Registration No. 2767) on Parliamentary hearings on the topic "Legislative guarantee and practical guarantee of the status of Ukrainian as a national language" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:26:39]] For-167 Against 5, held – 19, not a vote – 215. The decision is not taken. Let's get to it. The factions. Region Party 9, Parentage Party 71, Vitalia Klicka Strike 35, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 18. The draft Decree (No.2791) on Parliamentary hearings on "State regulation of the activities of natural monopolies - ensuring a balanced price and tariff policy" (June 19) is under consideration. How will we consider this question? I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:27:55]] For-127 Against-90, held-8, not voted-180. The decision is not taken. We're looking at the full program. Please, the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Politics, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrna, please. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Vasilovich, I fully support you for holding committee hearings, that's a very good thing. And with such an opportunity, I want to invite entrepreneurs and give them information that our Committee of Enterprise will be holding a wide-ranging committee hearing on May 22nd in the Supreme Council with three very important issues that are very controversial for entrepreneurship today. It's an internal trade issue, it's a second hand trade issue, and it's a result of the government of Azarov's accounting machines. As regards the question that is being asked by the committee for parliamentary hearings today. I think there are many appeals to each of you MPs about why and what tariffs they pay for providing services from natural monopolies. What do I mean? This is because they receive electricity, gas, heat, water, and connections. Our committee from the first days of the work of the Supreme Council held a hearing and review of every national commission created by the State today to regulate tariffs and prices of natural monopolies. And only after that did we realize that we had to hold parliamentary hearings. Why did we come to that conclusion? Indeed, the State took fine steps to create independent commissions to regulate natural monopolies, but it did not complete the process. There is no such body as NCRE in the Constitution, and since it exists as an independent body, it does not work normally with the government today. And that's why there's a confirmation of the bill that Peter Poroshenko, as economics minister, has introduced, shows that even the creation of macroeconomic indicators of the budget can't be done by the government, because not by NCRE, not by any commission, doesn't give him the calculation of macroeconomic indicators. But worst of all, dear friends, none of the consumers have any protection from any national commission. We know with you a lot of talk from our electorate when there's no such pressure as electricity. The last terrible catastrophe in the Kyiv region. And no monopolist pays the consumer the damages he receives for unquality services. Have you not been approached by many consumers who have said that they are paying for hot water that they do not receive? Have you ever been approached by consumers who pay for the heat they don't get? And then we looked at whether there was a legal relationship and culture between the government of the state, between the national commission that has the task, and between these natural monopolies to understand, and where is ours? Our place is the consumers of these services. And that's why we're asking you to have parliamentary hearings with the government, along with local authorities, with scientists, national MPs, and necessarily with consumer associations, so that we can understand with you how the government needs to be helped, and the consumer to regulate legislation in such a way that parity and culture of relations between government, national commissions and natural monopolies and was the consumer's protection from natural monopolies. And we left them alone today. And the second aspect is price formation. Don't tell me, Vladimir Vasilovich, and not Mr. Bliznyuk, who was both Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development. We understand. Or one of you MPs can tell us how the price is shaped, for example, for electricity. Have you read this law? So I want to tell you how an economist I was surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the conditions under which the monopoly works. He's allowed to include the cost of the core funds, and you buy them out of profit, depreciation deductions. Most importantly, they include innovative money every year. In 2012, there was only 5 billion of innovative money in energy. We paid them off at the rate. It's not. private property, but it makes an update for our money with you, we pay it in tariffs. Then tell me, do we have the right as a state to control: we have paid, and where is the update? No changes in energy, no upgrades, no power grids, no upgrades. Then the question is, why do we pay monopolists every year the possibility of modernization? And there's a lot of questions like that. The second point is that the voters say to you, "Why are we paying more utilities, for example, what in Kiev?".. This is both the Suman region, and the Chernigian region and very much, the Donetsk region, Lugansk. 'How is it--they ask--can it be?'".. So what I want to say is that in order for you to understand that the price of the same monopolist arises only at home, that is to say, it shouts at the part of the inclusion of the Jacks, and then every local authority plays on its own market conditions. That we can't intervene with you right now, according to the Local Self-Government Act, but we get confirmation that most of the local councils are already working, not Jacky how we worked, for which we've all set up a state commission with you, which should regulate and protect the consumer from the Jacks, and today this commission is still hanging out and there is no toolbox to work for today. And then there are these letters that I received today from a village council where the head of the village council writes, "Yes, Alexander Volodymyr, all residents complain that it's very expensive, but the tax office and the prosecutor's office forced me to liquidate the utility company and give me a private firm that now serves this village." We're going to be the committee on this issue, we're going to be preparing for the parliamentary hearings by two outgoing sessions on this issue, we're going to be looking at Donetsk, Donetsk County, we're going to be looking at this issue for parliamentary hearings and Lviv. And so I'm talking to you, and I don't want to just use the time to make it go away. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, if we don't look at it, if we don't break it down, if we don't break it down, and if we don't come up with a change in legislation to ensure a transparent policy of pricing and tariffs, we will always be incomprehensible to our electorate. We're not going to be able to protect it and there's going to be ineffective use of government funds paid for subsidies. Thank you very much for each and every one of you being a public figure, not just a political MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u87	Questions, perhaps? Please, do you have a question for the deputies? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please. National MP Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u91	They've passed it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u92	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Of course, it is a very important question. And, Alexandra Volodymyrna, I'd like to suggest you have a similar field meeting in my district in Poltava, where, by the way, the region's party was shut down yesterday, in fact, because it controls the local monopolist enterprise, which gives them gas. I was approached during these two days by about two hundred pensioners, mothers who can't collect their children, pensioners who in the 25-degree heat actually stayed with this misery for the elderly one by one. And it appears that the community is absolutely powerless to influence natural monopolies. So, in fact, on a particular example, we see that the question of the relationship between natural monopolies and consumers is extremely sharp, and it is worth solving. So once again, Alexander Volodymyrna, I focus on the necessity of holding in Central Ukraine - Poltava - the center of Ukraine, a spiritual capital that has long been suffering from this problem: community organizations, relations with natural monopolies - to hold such hearings in my district. The other one. Gas, heat, water, and communication. Do you know that Ukrainian pensioners spend about 70 percent of their income, their pensions to pay for utility bills? Do you know perfectly well that these are the most disciplined payers? You know very well that every grandmother, every person of old age, will give the last to allow the state to continue to exist, to allow the state to function in the communal sector. But at the same time, in the last 20 years, there has been actually a communal genocide against this simple Ukrainian person, who is not adding heat to which no electricity is added, whose interests and rights lie in relation to natural monopolies. Our faction also finds it extremely relevant to hold these hearings. And we're going to take an active part in Lviv, we're going to take an active part in Donetsk, and we're going to take an active, most active part in Poltava, where these hearings will be held. And the last thing I want to tell you. We should actually put this parliamentary hearing at a point in what's called discrimination, inter-regional discrimination. When, in fact, there are tariffs in one city in Ukraine, in another city much higher. You can't compare tariffs, the level of tariffs in Kiev to the level of tariffs in Suma, like.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u93	Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik. You bet it's three minutes. Please. Kirilenko National Deputy, Freedom Union, please. Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u94	The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, Paul Kirilenko, Atonement. We support the hearing on "State regulation of the activities of natural monopolies. Ensuring a balanced pricing and tariff policy." Indeed, today, when the majority of the Ukrainian population suffers from disaster, we find it very interesting to hear just how price policies for utilities are being shaped today? How fair is price policy today in terms of electricity, water supply, including rail transport, air transport -- it's all natural monopolies. But it seems that no one controls the price and tariff policies that are taking place in these areas. I would also like to draw attention to a very important problem, that today the MPs from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association have registered a bill on the elimination of private monopolies, but it is stalled and not being considered in committees and in the session hall. This is a big problem and we need to talk about it. I hope that these hearings on natural monopolies will still help us to see what needs to be changed in legislation, in the Law on Natural Monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u95	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u96	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland. Dear friends, this is a question that is being raised today, about parliamentary hearings, of course, needs to be supported. But after these parliamentary hearings, we have to look at a whole range of very important laws here, because listening will only give us an awareness of the very important problems that are now simply destroying our community sphere, which today have turned it into a field of corruption, a field of disrespect for citizens, a field of human abuse. I want to tell you that a monopoly usually protects itself with a good legislative base. There was such a minister as Ivan Placzkov, who had achieved that no treaty in the sphere of monopolistic corporations that exist today in Ukraine could be sued, reviewed, or made a single point. So it's both written and signed. I didn't sign, you might not get a favor, and that'll be the end of it. Therefore, an equal relationship between the consumer and the provider of services must first be established. Because if the service doesn't come, at best the monopoly won't take the money for it. For the unspoiled water for the power outage or the non-working elevator, well, it's a little bit of another sphere. But why there are no sanctions for not doing so. Why the monopoly is not responsible for the absence of hot water, no heating, no other service is wrong. They should be equal, I would say, mirror relationships, mirror contractual relationships that would make everyone responsible: the one who provides the service, the one who gets it. And these sanctions need to be put in place by law. I know that Julia Timoshenko signed a document that I was also working on, which involved, for example, the same hot water. If you have an apartment, remember, today you include hot water and it does not come in temperature 55-75 degrees after 3 minutes of working your hot water tap, you can fold an act and not pay for hot water. This is carefully hidden by the local authorities from the people. People don't know that. Sometimes, for half an hour, water is released from systems that are not supplied with circulating pumps. And then we pay who knows what and why. I would like to point out that all these questions need to be considered. Two tariffs on electricity or two prices up to 800 kilowatts, one price after 800, the other. The devil’s leg will break how to divide them on a national scale, which the amount of electricity has been put on one tariff and the other. The same thing in gas is three tariffs. Who's going to count what's coming today? And you know there's a night electric fare and a daytime fare. This is specifically done to ensure that corruption, mistreatment, and abuse of citizens flourish in this area. So we need to listen and make the right decisions, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u97	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u98	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine certainly supports the Order on Parliamentary Hearings. But on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that natural monopolies in our country are usually the property of specific clans, oligarchs. And their goal, of course, is to make the biggest profits. And no matter how many parliamentary hearings we hold, we certainly will not put very serious barriers to the growth of prices, tariffs, and services themselves. I would like to remind you that in Soviet times no one ever asked about the price of bread when a loaf of bread was worth 20 copies. No one asked about the price of electricity when it cost just four copies in the rural area. When, you know, the price of gas was absolutely available. And today as a half-breeder, I draw attention to how many times I don't ask the question -- how many drills in Poltavska, who owns them, how many take-offs, where prices are being spent, where the money is being mined, where no one answers these questions are coming from. And that's what's in our very state, which is state property, which is nadra, which is the very basis of natural monopolies, and it gives the biggest profits to the oligarchs. We're not going to solve these issues until we get our nadra back, our electricity and everything that makes the government's income go away. We have to say this openly so that Ukrainian society knows. And once again, I draw your attention to the fact that article 13 of the Constitution says that the earth, the navel and the atmospheric air are the property of the Ukrainian people, not of individual oligarchs and clans. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we should introduce the most severe state control over price, tariff and service growth. No matter how much we raise our pensions and wages, but they're going to go up marginally, and they're going to go up like crazy. The rates for tariffs and services are going up, and it's never going to go up until we limit their growth, it's never going to happen, and it's not going to live in peace. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we are too excited to hold parliamentary hearings today, their number is not quality. I would like to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council to say that, in terms of parliamentary control, we should monitor and analyse all the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings that have been adopted and that they have given. Usually on the way out, except that the couple got blown.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u100	It was nothing for Ukrainian society, and every citizen was gone. So parliamentary hearings are good, but when we return to the state itself, our nadra, electricity will be more useful.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u101	There are other national MPs who would like to make a statement. Please sign up. Please, the non-fractional National Deputy Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The questions that we are discussing are extremely important. And I support the idea of holding parliamentary hearings on the subject of State regulation of natural monopolies. As a result of the activities of monopolistic subjects, citizens receive an overpriced service and product, and so forth. So I literally received a call from the residents of Ninja and Nizhin district, where people report that, since April 2013, the National Energy Regulatory Commission has greatly raised the price – 45 times the price of allowing gas to come into the house. Project services cost $6,000,900, previously cost $160. And bringing gas to the house is 16,000 dollars. And these works are provided by an organization -- a hoax, which is a private stockholder society. Similarly, my colleague Angela Labunska told me that the energy that companies buy to supply abroad is much cheaper than what consumers pay, and we're with you, as said by colleague Vladimir Bondarenko. So monopolistic structures, basically private, oligarchic structures, using their monopoly position in the gas market, in the energy market, in other markets, they abuse their monopoly rights. Let's think of it as monopolistic owners of auto-fuelling stations: on one day, all the different firms raise the price of diesel, the price of gasoline. Oil prices are dropping worldwide, and gas prices are rising in Ukraine. Again, the effects of monopolies. This is a gasification example. Who, a peasant family, can afford to gas the house when you count the gas line in the village, the gas pipeline, the gasification of the house, is going to be 25 to 30 thousand dollars per family. Where will the rural family take such money when they cannot sell potatoes 50 pounds [50 kg] when a quart [liter] of milk costs less than two dollars? And where city dwellers, mostly when pensioners who receive 900-1000 dollars of pension, like a woman or a man, can pay 500-600 dollars for utility services, which they re-establish, using monopolistically, abuse of their status. Therefore, I am in favour of having such parliamentary hearings held. We need to work out this situation in Parliament. And the way out of this situation is to destroy the monopolies that abuse their rights today, billions of them in their pockets at the expense of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. So get the monopolies out of the Ukrainian market!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u103	Hit Vitalia Calla, National MP Rosenko. Who's speaking? People's Deputy Sold. Please. Turn on the Prodan microphone. What happened? Is the tribune on?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, in fact, the question that Alexander Kugel raised today is very important. And it's important to all Ukrainian citizens, it's important to all entrepreneurs, and it's important even for a big business that doesn't apply to the monopolies that we're talking about. Today, these monopolies, monopolies, who sell water that supplies energy, allow themselves to be denied even by the authorities. And very often, entrepreneurs who talk to me turn to us with their problems, complain about monopolies, and say that no one does what monopolies do. Let me give you a few examples of why you and I should consider monopolistic activities in the hall. For example, monopolies have the right to force every citizen to put up a counter, and what's more, they force citizens to change these counters when the monopoly that takes the money is considered necessary. Many Ukrainian citizens know their controllers who come to check their counters in the face, and some recognize the controllers who come to them by the knock and clumps in the door. Because no one works the way monopolistic workers work. We talk to you a lot about the need for electronic reporting, about electronic governance, and at the same time, in order to report to Oblenergo to any entrepreneur, even if one works, you have to come to oblenergo every month, stand a chance, show data. Then we confirm this data in another office and it happens, practically, with everyone and, practically, in all the regions. The fact that monopolies allow themselves to be excluded from services and those who pay for services, and those who do not pay, was cited in his speech by my colleague regarding Poltava, where water was turned off and where there was no possibility of bringing responsibility to those monopolies. I want to draw your attention not to the fact that yesterday you voted in favour of the law, but to the law that allows monopolies not to count with their suppliers, with suppliers of goods and services. And that's a question that puts all entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who are lucky to become monopolies in absolutely unequal conditions. Therefore, if each of us considers it necessary to protect our constituents, to protect Ukrainian citizens, each of us must vote in favour of this decision and to hold parliamentary hearings on the activities of the monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u105	Thank you. People's MP, Muggles.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u106	Grigory Zabotny, 17th constituency, Winnitzchina. I just want to say once again that on this rostrum, everyone who had a word had absolutely supported it, and none of them had any other thoughts than that they needed to have such an urgent hearing. And we support the idea that Vladimir Vasilovich, that we really should have done this before, but we were not working productively. And for today, I just want to get your attention, I've got a dozen letters from Teplice and Trieste County, when for one kilowatt connection to the power grid we have to pay two and a half thousand bracelets for permission. 10 kilowatts is 25,000. If, for example, there's no gas in these areas and you have to do electric heating, 30 to 40,000 dollars will be spent on a person. Where can you get that kind of money? And when there is only one source -- absolutely rightly Lazko said -- only the source is the milk that comes from private farms. I fully support the opinion of my colleague Gordienka that we need to carry out a systematic, deep analysis of how monopolies work, to draw conclusions from this and, of course, to propose solutions. And the decision has to be clear, as Gordienko has already proposed, is a state regulation of prices and tariffs. And if we do that, people will thank us for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u107	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u108	I would like to stress once again the urgency of this very topic in order for the entire Ukrainian people to understand one simple hand. If we do not now unite our efforts, the opposition factions, and the majority who do not fully hate the ordinary Ukrainian citizen, will not unite their efforts to stop this powerful unhealthy activity of monopolies, these monsters who today are tearing apart the lives of a Ukrainian citizen who are ruining his life, who today do not put the heat into his house, who do not put the light into his house, who today are transforming the actual life of Ukrainian. A Ukrainian into a common banal existence, which, from Ukrainian people, turns beautiful people into beautiful people. They are treated as beings, consuming what a simple Ukrainian person has worked towards, taking the last money a Ukrainian citizen can have, until we concentrate our efforts to really fight as enemy number one of the Ukrainian economy, as against enemy number one of the Ukrainians, we will not solve these problems. So I call on my colleagues from most of them, and I urge my colleagues from the opposition to return to their jobs right now, those who are already having lunch and eating instead of now defending the interests of the common people, and to vote in favour of these hearings. This is question number one. Because once again, ordinary Ukrainians actually pay two thirds of their pension, two thirds of their salary. They are the main sponsors of the Ukrainian economy today. It is on their shoulders today that the Ukrainian State is holding, and you and I are aware that today we are obliged to give them a vote in order to open this area to discuss this important problem. In addition, other serious scientific substantive discussions on the issues raised today, particularly by my colleague, Oksana Prodan, on infrastructure development, on transparent pricing, on consumer protection against monopolies. We, once again, I would like to stress, Alexander Volodymyrically, all of you, don't forget my offer to hold the same intermediate hearings in Poltava, in my district. Because the Party of Regions shut down the hot water yesterday, and several tens of thousands of my constituents suffer from it. They are grandparents, mothers who cannot buy their children. They're turning lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u109	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny. Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u110	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, today the tariff policy in Ukraine is opaque. The work of the National Price Regulatory Commission today sets tariffs for monopolies, such as olenergo, liars, economically sound tariffs, and for utilities, to be bankrupt today, sets completely different tariffs and is not economically justified. Today, Kiyevenergo, all over Ukraine, collects funds in advance, overpayments. And if more electricity is used, double tariffs are collected today for electricity. Today, we have introduced the Ukrainian National Deputies of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Igor Miroshnichenko, Alexander Mirný, Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity on Improving Consumers, which will remove these problems and will not allow today's monopolies who are privatized by the oligarchs Firthash, Surkis, Kolomoysky and many other oligarchs who today abuse consumers, who today, by issuing technical conditions, impose conditions that cannot be met by legal and natural persons. I would like to say that today the Supreme Council is hampered by the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Private Monopolies. We are saying today that all private monopolies must return to state and municipal property, and this is our main position in the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to say that today, honourable colleagues, we are not doing so in tariff policy. Instead of lowering the price of gas for thermal energy, and today the price of gas is 4 thousand 60 dollars per thousand cubic metres for heatcommuneers across Ukraine, today the Party of Regions is trying to bring about bankruptcy in all manner of ways???heatcommune. energy-intensive supply companies. And so today we don't know how we're going to get into winter and how we're going to give heat to our consumers. In particular, I would like to say that today, the funds that your government has allocated to Kabmin show that 999 million dollars of subsidies for heat-community goes to the Donetsk region, and other areas go to small amounts. Is that justice for the regions that are suffering today and are unable to offer warmth to our consumers ’ homes? Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires today the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Private Monopolies and the removal of today's "firtash", "surkiss", "colomous" influence on these.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u111	I beg your pardon, Mr. Alexander Kugel, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Let all the national deputies thank you for the very broad discussion that you have highlighted the importance of this issue. Indeed, it is not just electricity and gas. Not just water and heat. It is also a relationship that we read today that costs more each month. And it's not just a mobile situation, it's also with people living in the countryside who today have a terrible vacation from the Shrimp. I hope that every person who is about to vote will vote not only with his head but also with his heart. But what I'm saying is that the political power that is not now voting for these parliamentary hearings should assume the political responsibility of our electorate for remaining unprotected and against natural monopolies. And this political power, which does not now vote, takes the responsibility that it does not want to help the President or the government to organize these issues and protect Ukrainian consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u113	Attention, national deputies! I ask you to prepare for the vote and move on to the decision. I am voting on the draft Resolution 2791 on Parliamentary hearings on "State regulation of the activities of natural monopolies subjects - ensuring a balanced price and tariff policy". It is proposed to be held on June 19, 2013. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:08:37]] For 190 Against-2, held-32, did not vote-180. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 5, Parentage Party 68, Vitaly Calla 39, Freedom 35, Company 28, non-fractional 15. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12 o'clock, we'll continue our work for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u114	Invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and get ready for work. Let us now consider the question of the election of judges. And I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u116	Just a minute. We're looking at draft Decree 2996. Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of that Act, and examined the referral of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis of the Commission's consideration of recommending them to be elected to the post of judge on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article, part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft decrees are proposed for your attention: Draft Decision No. 2996. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Sacks District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Dahnevich Olen Dmitrovna; Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Black Olga Volodymyrna; Heisinsky District Court of the Vinnitsk Region of Bondar Oksana Victorian; The synonymous Regional Court of the Dnipropetrovsk District of Przyzygalinska Tetjana Volodymyrna; Dniprovsky District Court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Bagbay Eugene Davidovich; The Yellow District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov district of Boris Olga Neofitivna; Dimitrov City Court of Donetsk Region Repurchase of Igor Grigorovich; The Dobropil District Court of the Donetsk Region Health of Helen Volodymyrna; The Red Army Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Great Helen Volodymyrna; The Marina District Court of the Donetsk Region of Clikunov Anastasia Sergiyevna The Selidium City Court of the Donetsk Region of Cherkov Vladimir Hennadiyovich; The Red Cross District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Zastavenko Marina Alexandrovna; Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Savick Ludmila Josephovna; The Red Army District Court of the Gutz district of Volodymyrna; The Grand Maze District Court of the Zakarpat district of Lutjansk Margarita Stepanovna; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Gank Ivan Ivanovich; The Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye District of Kiyasko Victoria Alexandrovna; The Kalu District Court of Ivano-Frankiv region of Mihowich Oleg Mironovich; Boryspolski District Court of Kyiv Region of Combater Evgen Aleksandrovitch, Žuravski Vitali Viktorovich; the Commercial Court of the Donetsk Region of Léšin Hanna Valériyovna; the Economic Court of the Zaporozhye Region of the Carrier of Victoria Victoria; the court of the Kyiv district of Konuh Olga Vasilovna; The Kharkiv Economic Court of Ayupou, Rano Mukhtarovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question? Please call your last name because I am. I don't know. Last name? Headnut? Romaniuk is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u119	Roman Romanyuk, Vitaly Caller Faction. Dear colleagues, today there are a large number of judges waiting for their professional destiny. That is why we need to consider this issue and determine how to vote. For. In our opinion, for candidates to be elected judges on an indefinite basis who have claims or doubts, our faction will not vote. I also suggest that it is informative to say that 29 complaints from citizens, legal persons, regarding the professional activity of judges are under consideration by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. These complaints are pending today. Therefore, I propose and appeal to you, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, to exclude these judges from the relevant draft ruling. Rule number 2996, I'm talking about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u120	She's hot. What are the names?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u121	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u122	Romanyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u123	Dahnevich Olen Dmitrovna, Saxon District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u124	Wait, Dachnevich, first, there is. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u125	Exclusion from the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u126	Let's move on. Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u127	Clicking Anastasia Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u128	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u129	Clikunov Anastasia Sergiyevna, Marien District Court of the Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u130	Wait. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u131	Lutheran Margarita Stepanovna, Velikobraznian District Court, Zakarpatsky District Igor Leonovich, you're on your way, aren't you? Don't you have time?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u132	Come on, Lut. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u133	Or I'll give you a lift.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u134	Lucian and who? Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u135	Hanka Ivan Ivanovich, Provincial District Court of Zakarpatsk. Fighter Eugene Alexanderovich, Kyiv District District Regional Court of Borispil Zuravsky Vitali Viktorovich, Borispil District Court of Kyiv Region The bearer of Victoria. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u136	Come on, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u137	Carrier of Victoria Victorian, Land Court of Zaporez Region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer which. I will put to the vote the rulings that have been tabled, with the exception of those names that are being made. We'll go back to them. Okay. May I have your attention, please? Prepare to vote. I am voting on the Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2996) with the exception of the surnames that Romanyuk now called. We'll get back to those names later. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:52:48]] For the 250. Against - 2. It's held up to nine. There was no vote - 122. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 0, Company - 26, Postfaction - 18. Tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u139	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2996-1). Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Old Town District Court of Luhansk, Olijnik Svetlana Viktorovna; Lenin District Court of Lugansk Geneva Eleanor Viacheslavna, Luhansk Vladimir Ivanovich; Drodobian District Court of the Lviv Region of Gerasim. Garasimki Lilia Ivanovna, Kramara Oresta Volodymyrovich; Zoločov District Court of the Lviv district of Levík Jaroslav Andriyovich; Kamyanka-Buzki District Court of the Lviv district of Bakaj Ivanna Anatoliyevna; The railway district court of Lvova Liusz Andrija Igorovich; Sikhov District Court of Lvova Boyko Olga Mikolayovna; Ilchisin Nadia Vasilovna, of the District Court of Lviv Vanski Jurij Mikhailovich, Ilchisyn Nadija Vasilovna; Ishmael City Court of Odessa, Prisakar Aleksandra Yakovic; The Savran district court of the Odessa district of Lepech Vladimir Anatoliyovich; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Muntián Olesia Alexiyevna; The October District Court of Poltava Mikitenko Vitali Mihajlovich; The Rokitnov District Court of the Comzuk Allu Fedorovna District; The Deaf District Court of Suma District of Krivtsov Anna Vasilovna; John's District Court of the Herson district of Kowalczuk Tetjan Mikolayevna; Kielmenack District Court of the district of Turžanski Volodymyr Vasilovic; The Lower Regional Court of Chernigiv district of Olijnik Volodymyr Petrovich; The New Zealand District Court of Chernigova Masluk Natalija Valeriyovna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u140	People’s deputies have what questions? Please, National Deputy Romanyuk. And then I'll give it to you. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Please exclude from the draft Decree No. 2996-1 the following candidates for the post of judges who are elected on an indefinite basis: Geneva Eleanor Viacheslavna (Lenina District Court of Lugansk); Luisa Andrija Igorovich, Liusz, I'm sorry, the Lviv Railway District Court; Vanivsky Yuri Mihajlovich, Ilčin Nadia Vasilovna District Court of Lviv; Masluk Natalia Valeriyovna Novo. District Court of Chernigova, Novozavod District Court of Chernigova Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u142	Please, National Deputy Zeluk. Zealek, the “Freedom ” union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u143	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I also wanted to exclude from the list the judge of the District Court of Lvov, Urija Mikhajlovich, for disciplinary action.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u144	It's already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u145	Okay, thank you! Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u146	All of it. I'll bet on the vote, pay attention! I'm betting on the vote of Supreme Council of Ukraine (No 2996-1) on the election of judges on an untimely basis, except for the names that have been announced by the national deputy Romanyuk. Please vote. [[12:57:29]] For 269 Against-2, held-7, not an 113 vote. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 181, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 20. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u147	Draft Decision No. 2996-2. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Plaza Mikola Grigorovitch; The Winning City Court of the Viennese Region of Lucenko Ludmila Volodymyrna; The Krasnodon City Court of the Luhansk Region of Mankovsky Olen Alexiyevna; The Artemian District Court of Lugansk Zinchenko Tetjana Alexiyevna; The Yellow District Court of Luhansk Reznik Natalija Ivanovna; The railway district court of Lviv, Ivanyuk Ivana Dmitrovna; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Zhugan Love Volodymyrna; Poltava District Court of Poltav Region, Poteti Anatolia Grigorovitch; Dolbunovsk District Court of the Kushner district of Oleg Grigorovitch; The Coastal District Court of Ternopil, Daniel Olen Mironovna; Subtle District Court of Ternopil district of Staskov Nazari Bogdanović; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmeljna District of Dankov Svetlana Alexandrovna; Jarmolinec District Court of Hmelnicka district of Baskova Mikolaajovich; The Serb District Court of Chernigiv County, Hodić, Valentina Mikhailnovna; The Cave District Court of Kyiv Križanivska Hanna Volodymyrný; the district administrative court of Kiev, Litvinov Arina Volodymyrna; The commercial court of Kiev, Chebikin, Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u148	Is there a question for the people's deputies? Please, strike faction, the Romaniuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u149	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, please delete from the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the following candidates for the post of judges who are elected on an untimely basis: Mankowska Olena Alexiyevna, Krasnodonsk District Court of Luhansk Region; Ivanjuk Ivanna Dmitrovna, Railway District of the Court of Lviv; Danilev Olena Mironovna, District Court of Ternopol Region; Dankov Svetlana Alexandrovna, Hmelnicki District Court; Lithuania’s Arina Volodymyrna, the district administrative court of Kiev Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u150	I'll bet you a vote, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2996-2) on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, excluding the names that the Romanyuk People's Deputies have made. Please vote. [[13:01:21]] For 269 Against – 1, held – 9, not voted – 111. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 183, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u151	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2996-3). Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Eupatoria City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dudnik Anastasia Sergiyevna; The Railway District Court of Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Zlotnickov Vasil Yaković; The Saxegan District Court of Creature of the Horn of Dnipropetrov district of Popov Valerija Valeriovich; The merchant city court of the district of Bakumenko Anna Valerievna; Central City District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Jeromina Dmitr Alexandrovich; Ouratsky District Court of Žitomir district Grishkovets Alla Leonidivna; Bologna District Court of Zitomir Polontz Sergio Mikolaiovich; Kamyansko-Dniprovsky District Court of Zaporozhye district Vasilchenka Vitalia Vasilovich; Yakimiv District Court of Zaporozhye District, Fedorec Svetlana Volodymyrna; The Colombian Regional Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region of Weselov Vasil Mikolaiovich; The Fastev Regional Court of Kiev, Kovalevska Lesy Mikolayovna; The Truscavetsk City Court of the Lviv district of Marchuk Vladimir Ivanovich; The southern city court of the Odessa district of Asanov Zemphyr Ilymdarevna; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Skorupeev Dmitra Anatoliyovich; Suma District Court of the Suma District of Dashutin Igor Volodymirovich; The Ternopil District Court, Kramar Vasil Miroslavovich; The First-Major District Court of the Kharkiv District of Rosokh Andrija Volodymirovich; The Lenin District Court of Kharkova Greenchuk Alexander Petrovna; The Dniprovsky District Court of the city of Herson Dorosinska Valerija Eduardovna; The City District Court of the Cherkast Region of the Road of Leonidas Viktorovich; The Transnistrian District Court of Cherkasa Sklarenko, Valentina Mikolayevna; The Court of Justice of the City of Chernigiv Region of Bezdědík Volodymira Mikolaiovich; Chernigiv District Court of Chernigiv District Mezennikov Svetlana Petrovna; Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv Feduk Aleksandra Alexandrovich; Obolon district court of Kyiv Jajero Olen Volodymyrna; Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court of Baranov Romana Anatoliyovich; District Administrative Court of Kiev Ogurtsova Alexija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question? The Vitalia Klitschka faction, please, the Romaniuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear Chairman, please also exclude from the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 2996-3, the following candidates for the post of judges who are elected on an untimely basis: Bakumenko Anna Valeriyovna, Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region; Marchuk Volodymyr Ivanovich, Traskavetsk City Court of Lviv Region; Asanova Zemphyra Ilymdarevna, South City Court of Odessa; Scorpio Dmitry Anatoliyovich, Suvorov District Court of Odessa; Jegera Olena Volodymyrna, Obolon District Court of Kiev; Ogurtsov Alexi Petrovich, District Administrative Court of Kiev Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u154	Well, not all of you have wiped out the national MPs. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2996-3) on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, except for the names that Romanyuk called the National Deputy. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:27]] For 273 Against 1, held-9, not voted 109. It's been decided. I'm asking for factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 37, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 20. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u155	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2996-4). Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Medvedev Andrija Mihajlovich; Yasinauthian District Court of the Donetsk Region of Bichkov Pavel Yuriovich; The Berdichov Regional Court of the Žitomir district of Zamez Volodymyrovich; the Orutsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Ischuk Lidija Petrovna; Tachivov District Court of the Zakarpat district of Bobruška Vitali Ivanovich; Grand Belozer District Court of Zaporozhye District, Yatsun Oksana Alexandrovna; Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kyiv Region, Primachenko Viktor Aleksijovich; Boguslav District Court of Kyiv District of Korbut Volodymyr Mihajlovich; The Kirov district court of Kirov City of Ivan Demyan Leonidovich; The Lenin District Court of Lugansk Antonenka Maksim Volodymirovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Lvov Nevojta Petra Selívestrovič; The First-May City Court of the Mikolai district of Zakrewski Volodymyr Ivanovich; The Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva Zacharychenka Dmitry Volodymyrovich, Spinchevska Natal Alikivna; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Mazun Irina Anatoliyevna; Isumsk City Court of Kharkiv District, Besson Tetjana Dmitrovna; The new district court of the Hmelnick district of Stefanishin Sergey Leonidovich; The Christian District Court of the Cherka district of Orendarczuk Mikhail Petrovich; The Cave District Court of Kiev, Mathiychuk Galina Alexandrovna; The Vinicki District Administrative Court of Andriy Grigorovitch; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Vladimirenko Igor Viačeslavovich; The economic court of the Cherka district of Guru Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u156	Is there a question for the people's deputies? I didn't think so. People's MP Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u157	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Please delete from the draft Order of the Supreme Council at the number 2996-4 of the following candidates for the appointment of judges who are elected on an uninterrupted basis: Bičkov Pavel Yuriovič Yasinovitch Regional District Court of the Donetsk Region, Zamega Oleg Volodymyrovich Berdichivsky Regional Court of the Žitomir Region, Ivanov Demyan Leonidovich Kirovsky District Court of Kirovgrad, Antonenko Maxim Volodymyrovich Leninsky Regional Court of Lugansk, Nevojta Petra Selivestrovič Shevchenkov District Court of the city of Lvivva, Zakrovsky Vladimir Ivanovich First Regional Court of the Mikolaivian Region, Garden Andri Grigorovickski District Administrative Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u158	People's MP Hanna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head! I don't know if that's entirely fair, no facts, no arguments. Just like that, by taking the word of even the highly esteemed national MPs of the strike party, to throw people off the list of decrees. At least there should be an argument: Why do they propose that these people be expelled, are there really serious charges? You can't do that. If we watch the laws, if we stick to the standard and go to European standards of law and order, it's simple, without any accusations of people simply being humiliated and insulted. I think it's just wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u160	Dear National Deputies! We will listen to those who make these claims, we will listen to the judges, we will listen to the qualified commission, and then we will make a decision. That is why we do not take offense today. We haven't considered this before. Okay. I would be willing to consider the decision (No. 2996-4) on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis without the names that Romanyuk, a national deputy, called. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:12:17]] For 269 Against 3, held – 8, not voted – 112. Decision taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions – 184, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 35, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 30, non-fractional – 20. It's been decided. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u161	Draft decision on the election of judges (No. 2996-5). Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Sokourenko Dmitr Mihajlovich; The Saxegan District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Chernov Natalija Volodymyrovna; Kuznetsov City Court of Ravenna District Demčin Jurijovna; Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court Black Valery Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u162	Any questions? No questions asked. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 2996-5) on the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:13:43]] For 269 Against 3, held – 8, not voted – 111. I'll take the order. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u163	Draft Order on the election of a judge (No. 2996-6). Select Borovik Sergija Sergiyyovich to serve as the judge of the household court of the Cherkas region on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u164	Any questions? No questions asked. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (registration number 2996-6) on the election of the court on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:14:36]] For 270. Against 3, held – 7, not voted – 112. Decision taken. Let's go to the first one, go back to First Order 2996. And the order is suggested: the deputy calls why he made such an offer, we give the floor to the judge and the head of the High Qualifications Committee of Judges, Igor Leonovich Samsin. Do we accept such order? It's like that. Please, Dachnevich Olena Dmitrovna, Saxon City District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Who will report from the deputies? National deputy of Montenegro, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I would like to explain literally with one sentence, from which we came out when we proposed to exclude the above-mentioned individuals from the draft decrees for appointment of judges in advance. The materials submitted by the Higher Qualifications Commission indicate that there is information on these judges, which includes complaints from citizens — individuals, complaints from legal persons, complaints from prosecutors, other public authorities, and local self - government. And there is no final solution to these complaints. So that someone does not give the wrong impression that we were being biased. We approached objectively from the materials we received from the Higher Qualifications Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u166	Thank you. Let's listen to the judge, shall we? Let's listen to the committee manager. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, given that we have just come to understand the content of our colleagues' claims to these judges, namely, that there are complaints that are in the Higher Qualifying Commission and that there are no objects and reasons, I understand that these complaints themselves have not seen our colleagues, so I will have another proposal. I'm asking you, if your colleagues agree, to go this way. Given that the one-in-one claim is that there are some complaints, let's put it to a vote in every court. And I think we're going to be defined by a majority right away. Because we're here in the session room, we don't even have the right to look at any documents. So I ask you to put to the vote a judge one by one simply by the names that will read out the head of the High Qualifying Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u168	Please, Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u169	Dear Mr. Head, I once again urge my colleagues to comply with the law. I don't know in this room or outside this hall of a man who has no complaints. If this matter had been checked and there had been evidence that the complaints had been confirmed, if there had been any serious claims against these people based on facts and tests, then we could have asked the question. But to say that there's a complaint against someone and that's why you can't vote for it, I think it's at least unfair and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u170	Deputies! We need to make decisions. So let's go this way. The MP who asked the question. Listened for a minute, listened to the chairman of the High Qualifying Commission, and I'm putting it to a vote. Do you have a deal? We can't have judges, because there's nothing we can do in this room. It's a deal. Please, Igor Leonovich. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u171	Thank you. I would like to point out that we always make our decisions openly, publicly, about all the judges who have received applications for election on an indefinite basis in six months, we are posted on the Web portal of the Higher Qualifying Commission. And when I announce today, I read that on the day I'm considering making recommendations, we're practically all considering complaints. But it is possible that daytime, day before day, complaints will come. But that is no reason to give or not to make recommendations to a judge. I want to tell you that today when we go to the sittings, we're the judges who were voted here and made an untimely recommendation, and they're serving as judges, and today we've recommended to the High Council of Justice that they be released for gross violation of the law. We're telling the truth about these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u172	Igor Leonovich, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u173	That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u174	I'll bet you a vote. To appoint Judge Dachnevich Olena Dmitrovna of the City’s District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vote the deputies, please. [[13:20:47]] For 227 Against three, held-45, didn't vote-188. Decision taken. Let's move on. The Marine District Court. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's see the factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 24, non-fractional – 13. Mariinsky District Court of the Donetsk Region, Clikunova Anastasia Sergiyevna Who? Please, Igor Leonovich, offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u175	The proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u176	Vote. I would like to vote on an untimely basis as Judge of the District Court of the Donetsk Region of Clikunov Anastasia Sergiyovna. Please vote. [[13:21:56]] For 229 Against three, held-43, didn't vote 116. Decision taken. The factions. 185 – Party of the Regions, Parenthood – 0, Call – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 13. A decision has been made. The Grand March District Court of Zakarpatsk, Lutian district, Margarita Stepanovna Igor Leonovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u177	There's no commission claim on her. And we've considered all the complaints. If they are under consideration, we will definitely consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u178	I'll bet the vote on the judge's appointment on an open-ended basis. Please, Party of Regions, Romanyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u179	Thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction, Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u180	We'll be together.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u181	Never. Igor Leonovich, I respect you as a highly qualified man, a lawyer, but you just said: practically all complaints have been considered, practically. Well, we understand that the word "practice" is understood. I think these complaints, we haven't invented either Ivanov or Sidorov or Petrova, we've been coming out of your materials that the Higher Qualifying Commission has provided. I'd think so. So that we don't do any shows right now, let's vote, and I'm going to ask this question to the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice to consider. I'm sorry, I'm not saying we are. Mr. Pisarenko, I've studied for one minute, I've studied very closely the Law on the Status of Judges and Courtships, and I know we have no right to make any conclusions or recommendations. I'm just asking that we just study, take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u182	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote, we've agreed, I'll put you to the vote and I'll put you on the stand for a termless judge of the Lutjanske Margarita Stépanovna Velikobreznian district court of Zakarpatsk. Please vote. [[13:24:24]] For 239. Against – 3, held – 40, did not vote – 108. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 32, non-fractional - 19. Borispolski City Council of the Kyiv Region of Eugene Alexandrovich Bortsa An offer? Vote. I'm betting on the election of Judge Eugène Alexanderovich of the District Court of Kyiv. Please vote. [[13:25:18]] For 239. Against 2, held – 37, not voted – 110. Decision taken. The factions. 188 - Party of Regions, Parenthood – 0, Vitaly Klitka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 32, non-fractional – 19. I'm asking the MPs to vote in person so that there's no question that we're going to vote on something. Next. He missed the family of Hank Ivan Ivanovich, the Perecin district court of Zakarpat. I'll bet the vote on the judge's appointment on an open-ended basis. Please vote. [[13:26:19]] For 236 Against – 2, held – 38, did not vote – 112. Decision taken. Next. Because that's what we accepted, right? Yes, Zuravsky Vitali Viktorovich is the Borispolski District Court of Kyiv Region. Huh? Puts the vote on? I would like to vote on the election of Judge Zuravian Vitali Viktorovich, the Borispol County Court of Kiev. Please vote. [[13:27:17]] For 239. Against – 2, held – 35, did not vote – 112. Decision taken. The factions. 190 - Party of Regions, Opposition - Zeros, Company - 32, Non-Faction 17. Ladies and gentlemen, don't shout, because you're breaking up. Here we go. The bearer of Victoria Victoria is the court-martial of the Zaporozhye region. I'll bet the vote on the judge's appointment on an open-ended basis. Please vote. [[13:28:13]] For 240 Against - 2, held - 34, not voted - 111. Decision taken. By factions, let's see. Yes, this decree is adopted completely. Let's move on. Now it's 2996-1. Eleanor Viacheslavna Geneva Leninska District Court of Lugansk May I put it to a vote? I bet. To appoint a judge on an indefinite basis to Geneva, Eleanor Viacheslavna, Lenin district court in Luhansk. Please vote. [[13:29:16]] For 208 The decision is not taken. 208, against 2, held 36, not 140. The factions. Region Party – 191, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Railway District Court of Lviv Liusz Andrija Igorović I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you Igorovich's judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:30:17]] For 239. Against 2, held to 35, did not vote 109. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Yes. Let's move on. Frankowa District Court of Lvova Vanivsky Yuri Mihajlovich I would like to vote on the appointment of Judge Vanivski Jury Mihajlovich, the District Court of Frankfurt. Please vote. [[13:31:01]] For 239. Against 1, held 36, did not vote 110. Let's see the factions. Let's have a look. Next. Ilčina Nadija Vasilovna, District Court of Frankfurt I bet you to vote on the judge's term of office, Nadia Vasily Ilchino. Please vote. [[13:31:48]] For 239. Against-1, held-32, didn't vote-112. Decision taken. And Masluk Natalia Valerievna Novozavod District Court of Chernigova. I'll bet you to vote on the judge's termless appointment, Masluk Natalija Valeriyovna. Please vote. [[13:32:25]] For 237 Against 1, held 36, did not vote 112. The decision is taken by decree. Let's move on. Then we have 2996-2. The Reddonian Regional Court of the Luhansk Region of Olenna Alexievna Mankowska I'll bet you to vote for Judge Mankovsky Olenna Alexiyevna. Please vote. [[13:33:13]] For 240 Against 2, held – 36, not voted – 108. Decision taken. The railway district city of Lvova Ivanjuk Ivanna Dmitrovna I'm betting on the election to be elected to the judge on an untimely basis by John John Dmitry. Please vote. [[13:33:48]] For 238. Against – 2, held – 33, did not vote – 111. Decision taken. Next, the Ternopil District Court of the Danil district of Olena Mironovna. I'm betting on the election to be elected to the judge on an untimely basis by Danilev Olen Mironovna. Please vote. [[13:34:28]] For 238. Against 0, held – 35, not voted – 111. Decision taken. Dankov Svetlana Alexandrovna Hmelnicka District Court of Hmelnicka. I'll bet you to vote on the termless Dankov Svetlana Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[13:35:07]] For 239. Against – 2, held – 34, did not vote – 111. Decision taken. And the District Administrative Court of Kiev, Litwin's Arena Volodymyrna. Please. To be appointed judge of Lithuania's Arina Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[13:35:43]] For 243 Against 2, held – 34, not a vote – 107. Decision taken. The following is Decree 2996-3. Commercial City Court of the Donetsk district of Bakumenko Anna Valerievna I'm betting on the election to elect Judge Bakumenko Anna Valerievna. Please vote. [[13:36:22]] For 242 Against - 1, held - 36, did not vote 108. Decision taken. Next, the Truskavetsk City Court of the Lviv Region of Vladimir Ivanovich Marchuk. I bet you're gonna vote for Judge Truscavetsky City Court of Lviv County on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[13:37:06]] For 242 Against – 1, held – 33, did not vote – 109. Decision taken. Next, I vote for Judge Asano's Zemphyr Ilymdar's Southern City Court of Odessa. Please vote. [[13:37:48]] For 240 Against - 2, held - 34, not voted - 109. Decision taken. I would like to vote for the judge’s termless election, Scorpio Dmitry Anatoliyovich Suvorovsky District Court of Odessa. Please vote. [[13:38:25]] For 241 Against – 1, held – 34, not voted – 109. Decision taken. I bet that the judge will be elected to the office of Judge Iéger Olene Volodymyrovna of the Obollonian District Court of Kiev. Please vote. [[13:39:02]] For 240 Against one, held on to 34, not voted on – 108. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Yes. Next, an offer is made to elect Ogurtsova Alexi Petrovich of the Kyiv District Administrative Court. Please vote. [[13:39:43]] For 238. Against - 1, held - 34, not voted - 111. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The ruling is under consideration, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2996-4. An offer is made to elect a judge on an untimely basis, Beechkov Pavel Yuriovich, Yasinauth’s District Court of the Donetsk Region. Please vote. [[13:40:32]] For 241 Against -2. It's been held for 28 years. There was no vote - 112th decision taken. An offer is made to elect the judge on an untimely basis, Oleg Volodymyrovich, of the Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir Region. Please vote. [[13:41:06]] For 222 The factions. Region Party – 183, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, "Afterfractional" – 7. An offer is made to select the judge for the term of office of John Demyan Leonidovich, Kirov district court of Kirovgrad. Please vote. [[13:41:57]] For 241 Against - 2. It was held at 32. There was no vote – 106. Decision taken. An offer is made for the appointment of Judge Antonenko Maxima Volodymirovich, Lenin district court of Luganske. Please vote. [[13:42:30.]] For 242 Against - 2. It's held up to 31. There was no vote – 106. Decision taken. The proposal to elect a judge on an indefinite basis Nevojta Petra Selívestrovič, Shevchenkovsky District Court of Lviv. Please vote. [[13:43:09]] For 240 Against – 1, held – 33, did not vote – 107. Decision taken. An offer is made for the appointment of Judge Zakrevsky Vladimir Ivanovich of the Regional Regional Court of Mikolai. Please vote. [[13:43:47]] For 239. Against – 1, held – 31, not voted – 110. Decision taken. An offer is made to elect the judge for the term of office of Mayor Andrija Grigorovitch of the District Administrative Court. Please vote. [[13:44:21]] For 243 Against – 1, held – 28, not voted – 108. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The decree is under consideration. Order 2996-5 has been granted to us. And 2996-6 accepted, Do you all have questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u183	All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u184	Let's congratulate the judges on their election. [[Applause]] We want objectivity. We wish you success in your work. Thank you for your input. Good luck to you. Good-bye. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a long way to break. I have no right. Let us take a closer look at some more parliamentary hearings. But, I beg your attention, I'm making an offer: to work today until we consider all of the issues of the agenda. I'll put it to a vote. Who would like to work today and consider all matters of the order of the day, please vote. Please vote, not scream. [[13:46:00]] For-195 Well, by the factions, we'll see. Regional Party - 151, Fatherland - 3, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 32. Why don't you put it again? It's post-faction. Well, let's work. Mokhnik says we failed! It's not good at the beginning. Read the regulations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop teaching me! I'm learning. I'll put it again, let's work. For today’s full consideration of the issues, please vote. [[13:47:12]] For 199 And by factions. Regional Party 152, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 32, non-fractional - 13. We're looking at the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "The provision of constitutional guarantees for equal access and quality of higher education in Ukraine." It is proposed to hold July 10, 2013. How will we view it? I would like to vote on this issue on a reduced basis. Please vote. [[13:48:21]] For 177 Against 77, held – 10, did not vote – 122. Decision taken. And I would like to ask you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Maximovich Sich. Is there a reporter? Yes. And then we give the committee manager a word and we make a decision, and we have this possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u185	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The current nature of parliamentary hearings on the provision of constitutional guarantees for equal access and quality of higher education in Ukraine is due to the fact that for many years in Ukraine the constitutional guarantee of the right of a Ukrainian citizen to equality education has in fact been nullified. In doing so, it should be recalled that article 53 of the Constitution establishes that everyone has the right to education and that the State must ensure that higher education is available in public and municipal higher education institutions. However, whether the majority of Ukrainian citizens today have the opportunity to do so is evidence of figures. I selectively took some of the most important, most authoritative national higher institutions in Ukraine. And statistics show that the cost of learning is on average 15-20 thousand. I'm not even talking about this phenomenal incident that comes out of that address that was sent to the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association by the students of the State Air Academy, which is located in Kirovograd. So the first course is 10,000 600, the second course is 57,000, the third course is 11,300, the fourth course is 530, and I'm not wrong because the cost of flying is included here. Five is 11,000. And only 619 thousand 900. Please tell me, not only in this U.S.U., but in the country's so-called National U.S.A., who can learn? Of course, I'm not talking about the children of oligarchs, businessmen, masters. I mean agricultural workers, and especially everyone who lives in the village, the children of teachers, doctors, and cultural workers. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u186	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u187	Today, the minimum wage in Ukraine is 1,147 dollars, the average wage is 3 000 dollars, and in general, according to UN 78 Ukrainians are outside the poverty line. What about the quality of education? Even today's hearings about the observance of the Jubilee dates have shown how much higher quality education our fellow MPs have. Please support the decision. And, Mr. Head and honourable colleagues, there is a technical error, not on July 10th, but on December 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u188	I ask the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich. Please. December 12th, right, committee, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u189	Lilia Grinevich, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Deputies, the Committee on Science and Education at its meeting on 3 April, discussed the holding of these parliamentary hearings on ensuring constitutional guarantees for equal access and quality of higher education in Ukraine and supported the need for them. The basis for such hearings on the Committee, which took place on February 27, 2013 and identified a number of priority issues that require further detailed discussion at the level of the Committee and legislative decision-making, namely the improvement of legal mechanisms, the implementation of the constitutional right of access to higher education. In particular, even if we are now analyzing the basic directions of budgetary policy for 2014, we are already looking at the establishment of further violations of these constitutional rights. For example, it is proposed that, at the expense of a government order, only public educational institutions should be allowed to teach and exclude municipal institutions, even though they have been incorporated into the Constitution of Ukraine. The fundamental constitutional right is being invoked. Similarly, the problem is the inadequacy of higher education with the modern - day needs of the labour market. Create a higher education quality assurance system, etc. There's a whole bunch of problems. Procrastination with their solutions deepens the crisis situation of higher education. So once again, we ask all of you, honourable national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u190	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u191	vote in favour of these hearings. We suggest that they be held at the next session in December, thus summarizing the legislative activities in the field of higher education, and seeing how these legislative initiatives are being implemented by December 2013. Support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? You won't? Is it? Please sign up. Freedom Union, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u194	Igor’s michoke, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u195	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to urge all the deputies in this session room not to disperse and support these parliamentary hearings -- an extremely urgent issue. Let me give you a simple example, a tragic example that can be massive in the future. In the sums of today's winter, a second-graduate teacher at Makarenko University committed suicide by means of so-called fights -- voluntary contributions that each U.S.A. is assigning today. The constitutional rights of our Ukrainian children are being violated not only in the assignment of compulsory wages but also in the assignment of the so - called voluntary contributions made by the U.S.U.S. students today. This violates constitutional law and sometimes leads to such tragic events. Please support these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u196	Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u197	Please inform the expert on this subject, Rostislav Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u198	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u199	Rostislav Pavlenko, Vitaly Call's Strike Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, a few words from the motives of the previous vote. The thing is, it's not about how much we're going to be working here, it's about what we're working on. And you don't have to try to carry out reaction schemes and things like that by delaying Parliament's work. Now it's essentially a question. The strike party faction will support this decision. Because we need a professional and honest discussion on how the higher education system in Ukraine is today, why the education system is considered to be the most corrupt, how to ensure that it is funded, how to ensure that, not an official from the Ministry, but universities themselves raise the quality of education and determine the worthy level of payment for the lot in this field, and ensure that higher education in Ukraine produces professionals who will be marketed for jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u200	Party of regions, National Deputy Andrew Pinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I personally fully share the view on the relevance of this issue, but if we see how this decision has been prepared, let us put it this way, it is clear that there have been some political main objectives. First of all, of course, I mean, not very professional. First of all, there are flaws -- this is really the date that was set in July, when it wasn't for students, there would be no teachers. Of course, the proposal is now to be moved to December. But even if you look at the list of invited ones, there are invited such ones, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the minister of economic development. Unfortunately, however, the head of the State Education Inspectorate is not invited, nor is the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence, where many of the educational institutions refer specifically to these institutions. As for the representatives of the student organizations, let's say, someone not very much, in my opinion, a professional approach to invitations. And that's why this is a very relevant issue, and it's urgent, really, that we have higher education, and that every young person has constitutional guarantees for access to higher education. That's very true. So in my opinion, it is still necessary to approach these hearings more professionally and to bring them out of state's position, not from the political point of view, in order to condemn and play a political note on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue this session until the conclusion of this debate. The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u203	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Fatherland, Trinity. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It seems to me that God himself has commanded us Ukrainians today to be leaders, educational leaders, at least in Europe. Because we have a colossal history, even though for a moment we're going to mention our Kiev-Mogilian Academy, which Lomonos finished and then, by learning our Russian, Ukrainian language, and then writing a Russian-language textbook from which Russian language actually began. I want us to mention also Princess Jaroslavna, the wife of the French king who taught him how to sign up under his orders and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. But today the situation is almost tragic: no college, I emphasize, no college in Ukraine, and they've multiplied lately so much, both private and private, and underground, and which you just don't want, which are giving a lipo, in fact, education, and they're giving lipo diplomas that are nowhere to be appreciated even in our country. Because of this, of course, the subject must be discussed, since there is a tremendous disregard for government today or even contempt for education in the person of the Smoker. This is what we need to think of as the minister of education that we have, which is a large part of our people in general think that they are not moments, not garlic or anything like that. It is necessary to have such an education minister! I'm not talking about the terrible abuses that are in the Ministry, which books are published at what prices to make bad parents today unable to buy them in any way. None of our institutions are included in the list of prestigious institutions of the world. No one, not even Kyivsky or Lvivsky, is too sorry! Because of this, of course, we have to listen to it publicly, talk with the public about this situation, although I believe little, I am convinced that today the majority will not vote for it. I have some experience, and I understand it very well, because they know how much they're going to get.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u204	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u205	the government during this discussion. That's why we're going to, at least I know that the Fatherland Party and our faction are going to vote in favour of these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u206	The Communist faction, Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u207	The Communist faction will vote in favour of this decision. But I would like to draw your attention to my colleagues that the reform of education is aimed at demobilizing our young people. And the education system has become a system of enrichment. To your attention, the number of pre-primary institutions in the years of independence has decreased from 24.5 to less than 16,000, and the number of general education schools has decreased from 21.5,000 to 19.5,000. I mean, after robbing factories and factories, they started destroying the school oligarchs. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the new education systems built by the oligarchs are well suited to their economic interests, i.e. the ruling class: over-reward through the exploitation of cheap labour. They changed the priority system. If, in Soviet Ukraine and the Soviet Union, the primary objective of education was to create a harmoniously developed personality, then in bourgeois Ukraine, forgive the directness of the labour force and, of course, corporate business interests. Therefore, in favour of support, the faction warns that it is necessary to change radically.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u208	One minute, National Deputy Lazko and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, we raise the right issue of access to higher education. But I think it's no less important and relevant to have access to education for ordinary Ukrainian children. I just got a text today. My 208th constituency: closing 1st school, 150 years standing up, no one getting in the way, a party of regions came and closed the school -- parasites instead of opening kindergartens and schools. And that's why we need to talk about access to the general education network of educational institutions, when our children, especially in rural areas, are deprived of the possibility of general education. When a child has not studied in school, he has a computer. Seen for the first time when Kiev arrived, what kind of education might it be when schools are not Internetized? So we have to radically solve the problems of education both in general and in higher education, but first we have to resign the government of Azarov. We have to change the Party of Regions away and only after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m0.u210	Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the decision-making process. So sit down quietly and vote. I'm voting on the draft Resolution 2840 on Parliamentary Hearings on "On Ensuring Constitutional Guarantees for Equal Access and Quality of Higher Education in Ukraine", to be held in December of this year, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[14:05:05]] For 168 Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to 18. There was no vote — 153. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen. It's time, after 16, I'll give it to everyone. I declare the morning session closed. At 16 o'clock we continue our work.
