ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning's session is closed. So I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:05:04]] There are 367 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I'm going to Vitalia Cliché. Vitaly, there are two options: To consider the question of the memorable dates now, will you report on the results, as a result of your consideration of your questions? But wait for the application. Let's work for now. Let us work hard to see the memorable ones. Huh? I want to. Wait, I get it. Okay, okay. Okay. I got you! Sit down, we'll figure it out. Well, wait, I get it, sit down! Oleg Viacheslavovich! Oleg Viacheslavovich! Vitaly! There are two options: to announce the break again and not work all day, or let us give now the memorable dates or the decisions, we will consider, and you will prepare the speech, and then I will give you the word, you will speak. Explain to Mohnik, please! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's see how we've looked at the decisions so we can capture them. On May 16, 2013, you and I were looking at (registration 2108) the 60th anniversary of Flower Cisik. Sadly, though, this draft decree did not receive the necessary number of votes. The leaders of the MPs made a motion to re-vote the above - mentioned decision. Can I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the proposal to re-vote the draft Ordinance (registration no. 2108) on the 60th anniversary of the birth of Flower Cisik. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:08:28]] For 257 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote, 117. The decision was taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (registration no. 2108) on the 60th anniversary of Flower Cisik. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:09:11]] For 275 I'll take the order. [[Applause]] Let's go. The draft decree on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Harkov from German-Fashistic invaders (registration No. 2805) is under consideration. People's deputies are requested to vote in favour of the adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[16:10:00]] For 264 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 114, only 379. Decision taken. The factions. There are factions. Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2110) on the 500th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Goyce Jovkovsky in the region of Lviv (Project of National Deputy Vladimir Yavorowski) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Did you miss anything? Come on, let's vote. [[16:11:31]] For 308. Against-0, held-2, not a vote-76. Decision taken. Next. Attention! I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (Registration 1254) on the 1115th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Galic Ivano-Frankov. The Roman Cherneghi People's Deputy Project. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:12:23]] For 309 Against-0, held-4, not voted-74. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (registration number 2129) to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of John James Yus. Project of the People's Deputy, Mikli Tomenka. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:13:10]] For 319 Against-0, holding-2, not voting 68. The decision has been made. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2132) to mark the 900th anniversary of the first edition of "The Fate of the Past Years." The project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:13:57]] For 327 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 58. Decision taken. I'll take the order. I'll bet you a vote. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Communist faction, Martinyuk. It is very surprising that a person who should know what this first written document of our nation was called, made a willful, unauthorized translation. There's no record of him for years. In Slovenian it was called "Few Roaring Summers." That's how it's supposed to be written. Because if we write it in the same way as our colleague Yavorowski wrote it, everyone will wonder why he made such a translation. "A lot of rainy summers" is what this novel was called. And there's nothing Russian or pro-Russian. It's ancient Slavonic, it's our story.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u3	Please turn on the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u4	Dear fellows, honored, honored by me, highly esteemed Adam Ivanovich! It's been translated a long time. It's not Yavorowski's translation, you just have to read it. I understand that you Communists would like it to be called "Few Temporary Years." But temporary years have passed under your direction. I am very grateful to those who voted for this unique absolute document, which is one of the first, which is our historical proof of the existence of the Ukrainian people. Later, Catherine and Musin-Pushkin copied, stole our manuscripts, and so on. But this, thank God, is preserved and called what it's called. I am grateful to all who voted for this, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u5	An explanation is given. Let's move on. I'm betting on a vote on a bill of order (registration number 2169) to mark the 1025th anniversary of Volodymira-Volin County. Project of the People's Deputy, Katerina Vasuk. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:16:55]] For 340. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 50. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Ukrainian Peacekeepers' Day (Registration No. 1165). Project of the People's Deputy, Vadim Kolesnick. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. See, the whole Koleschenka Hall is backing up. [[16:17:35]] For 339 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 55. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2212) to mark the 60th anniversary of the formation of the Cherka region. The Anton Yatzenk People's Deputy Project. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. It's been decided. [[16:18:19]] For 282 Against 0, held – 10, not voted – 100. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill (registration number 2344) to mark the 760th anniversary of the coronation of Daniel Romanovich by King of Russia. National MP Andrija Mishchenka's project for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:19:06]] For-179 Against 4, held – 29, not voted – 177. The decision is not taken. The factions. You see the factions. Let's move on. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Ukrainians' 330th anniversary of the Vienna Battle (Registration No. 2416). The Irina Pharion People's Deputy Project. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:20:00]] For-162 Against 8, held – 23, not voted – 201. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2551) on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Kyiv Institute of Forensic Research by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Project of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Pilpenko. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:20:57]] For 280 Against - 2, held - 13, did not vote - 98. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2230) to mark the 45th anniversary of the death of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, writer, cultural encyclopedia, publicist and literary critic Eugene Malanuk. Project of the People's Deputies, Oleg Layashka. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:22:01]] For-141 Against-2, held-31, not 216. The decision is not taken. In the end. I'm betting on the vote of the Bill (Registration No. 2276) on the 80th anniversary of Basil Simonek's birth. The project of the national deputy Volodymyr Pilpenka for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[16:22:46]] For 338 Against-0, held-2, didn't vote 54. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the New Section's draft (registration number 2314) to mark the 60th anniversary. A new chapter, right? Lviv district. The draft of the national deputy Lydia Kotelek for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:23:37]] For 208 Against – 2, held – 28, did not vote – 155. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The factions. We looked at the factions. Everyone voted. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2417) on the 90th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian writer Alexander Alexander Sizonenka. The project of the People's Deputy Alexander Dove to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:24:34]] For 262 Against – 0, held – 40, did not vote – 92. Decision taken. Yes, I'm voting on the Bill of Order (registration number 2497) to mark the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Suma region. National Deputy Victoria Babic's project for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:25:21]] For-286 Against - 1, held - 7, did not vote - 100. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2294) on the 850th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Jedcheva Lviv district. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you'd like to invite me to the Lviv district more often, I'll know that the city of Jidacheva Lviv district. Project of the national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski. Because he was driving, he knows. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:26:29]] For 349 Against 0, holding back - 1 didn't vote - 46. Decision taken. And two more decisions. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (Registration No. 2262) to mark the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine by the Red Army from the fascist invaders. Project of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Oliynik. The committee didn't consider it. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[16:27:22]] For 253 Against - 3, held - 6, did not vote - 120. Decision taken. One more decision, and then I'll give you my word. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree, registration number 2264 on the marking of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Red Army of the city-hero Kiev from German-fascist invaders. Project of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Oliynik. Neither did the committee. Ask for a basis for acceptance and for the whole. Please vote. [[16:28:21]] For 264 Against - 1, held - 9, did not vote - 114. Decision taken. The factions. Party of regions. The factions looked at it. I'm asking you to sign in one minute from the factions. Got it. So, what are the questions, you can have them in a minute. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, I want to go back to the problem we were talking about. We, including the Communists, voted in favour of a decree on the Book of Temporary Years. But once again, once again, there's no "Leading the Past Years," it's only in the imagination of that writer who calls those years absolutely fair when he was in the benches of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, temporary. That's what they were temporary to him. Just as he was temporarily guided by the Society of Writers and that it was temporary, just as it is temporary today, because the situation will change, tomorrow he will be the next breaker. So for you, temporary years, for us these years are not temporary, for us these are real years of hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u7	I'm asking for a faction of Fatherland, Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, we have discussed all the issues in faction and there is a way out of this completely conflictless, general harmony in the adoption of these bills. We'd be asked to consider three positions. First position. In particular, it was a project to honor the 45th anniversary of death, highlighting the death of Eugene Malanuk. It's important for us to celebrate the dates related to the creation of something with our birthday. The day of death, well, is honored differently, even in families, that's the first. The other one. Let us keep in mind our history of war, so he will never write that the liberation of the Red Army. Because our cities didn't just liberate the Red Army, there were guerrillas, there were militias, and there was liberation movement, and there was competition, and so on. Let us honor our history. Without the words of the Red Army, our faction would vote unanimously. And the third. Let's stick to the current legislation further -- and mark the times twenty-five, as it's already been adopted before, not 110, 74, 75 and so forth. We'd be asked to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u9	Party of regions, Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished members of the people! I want to talk to the Kievlians. It is unfortunate that today the opposition representatives, the majority of the opposition you voted for in the elections, spat in the soul of the Kievers and refused to vote for the holy date: the 70th anniversary of Kiev's release from the German-Fashistic invaders. But I promise you, the Party of the Regions promises that the holy dates of the anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the German-Fashistic invaders, the city of Kiev from the fascist invaders, we will always celebrate, as neofascists, no matter how the Nazis try to fake these dates! They won't get away with it, it's sacred! These figures are paid for by the blood of millions of Soviet soldiers! The Soviet conqueror defeated Reichstag and saved us and all of Europe from the Fascist plague. Kievyan, we're with you! We're going to celebrate, unlike these.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u11	Freedom faction, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u13	Irina Farion was handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u14	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! Our vote for the rulings or not the best testifies to being really a political ruby in this room, and not only in this room, but in general in Ukrainian society. The whitest and scariest ruby is, of course, the space of Ukrainian culture. As soon as we review the decrees that speak of respect for the memory of prominent statesmen, part of the criminal court does not vote for it. Now for the vote on the Cisik Flower. You know what I'm gonna tell you about this? This singer can only be appreciated by someone who has at least a shred of awareness of the talent that this person had. And your vote now in favour of this bill does not undo the blasphemy you did before. You've done a very strange thing: you've set up the middle of Ukraine, you've made a stench for the whole world, and now it's like you've voted for it. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u15	The Vitalia Calla Unit. Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u16	Vladimir Kureny, Vitaly Call. Please pass the word to Roman Chernezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u17	Please, Roman Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u18	Roman Czernega, Vitaly Klitschak Faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, thank you for supporting the draft Order on the 1115th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Galic, one of the oldest cities in our country. During this period of Jaroslav. And Danilo Galicki ruled the city, Ukraine achieved enormous economic development, and it's strange to me that we didn't support it. However, they should be consistent, supported by a decree issued under number 2344 to mark the 760th anniversary of the coronation of Danil Galicsky. These two decisions are directly related, so, Sir Vladimir Vasilovich, a colleague, I would like to return to this vote and support the draft decree of our colleague Mishchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u19	All the deputies have spoken. We're back. Let's see. To have voices, we have to go back. Then we'll come back to that question tomorrow. After all the memorable dates we haven’t considered. Now I want to give you my word. factions took a break. Who's going to make the statement, as I promised we'd be able to move on? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. So we agreed, instead of this statement, we considered the cities of remembrance instead of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u20	Mr. Chairman, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The opposition demanded a break in order to find out how Ukraine’s only legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, would respond to what had taken place in the 18th century. Insolent, I emphasize, a bold speech by the Minister of the Interior! Our country has seen many interior ministers, and there have been different situations. But to lie so unprecedentedly from this rostrum, these walls do not remember such a thing! Therefore, the Supreme Council must make the following decisions that will finally put a stop to who is the organizer, guide, and performer of the May 18 provocations. The opposition made it clear that all of this was organized under the auspices of the President and those who were personally appointed by him. In order to find out all the factual circumstances and materials of the case, we have been ordered to establish a Temporary Investigation Commission on the violation of Ukrainian citizens' rights and freedoms, on the illegal activities of the Ukrainian police and on the non-response of internal affairs officials to the events of May 18 that took place under the aces of action "Get up, Ukraine!"and, specifically, the question of beating up Ukrainian journalists. Such a decree has been made to Parliament. Tomorrow it is agreed that it will be discussed immediately at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee. And on Thursday, the first question of the agenda will be to vote on the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the provocations that took place on May 18th. The other one. The opposition asked for information from the Attorney General of Ukraine about the state of compliance with legislation in Ukraine. The point is that the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, which, according to the Constitution and the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, is overseeing the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, should give a clear answer to what was happening in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who was the organizer, and why the militia did not act. Third. Such a decision is made today. Tomorrow it will be discussed on the committee. And so on Thursday, the first issue of order after the TSC is the invitation of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the third. As far as the so-called Fascist organizations against which the Party of the Regions is concerned. We've declared what we're asking the Party of Regions to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u22	So the Party of the Regions can name a clear list of the organizations they're fighting. For this reason, we have called for an invitation to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the first, first, presence or absence in Ukraine of fascist organizations, xenophobic activities in Ukraine. The other one. On May 18, Ukraine’s security forces took action against terrorism. Third. To determine whether the Ukrainian Security Service is actually engaged in the security of Ukrainian citizens or whether it covers illegal activities of the law enforcement system, including listening to the telephones of Ukrainian national deputies. So three points. The next commission is once. Ukraine's Attorney General in Parliament is two. The head of the Ukrainian Security Service in Parliament is three. This has been agreed upon by Parliament’s leadership and factions. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to confirm the existence of all these arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u23	With regard to the Security Service, I sent a letter on behalf of Tegnibok. But the matter was not considered for a moment by the head of the Security Service. Consider the statement by Dragnibok, the answer is given, and then the decision is made. As far as I'm concerned. Everything, I confirm, yes. I confirm everything, everything. Yeah. Decisions are being considered and Thursday will be considered. We're working on it. A draft Act (No.2403) on the amendment of Article 230 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products) is under consideration. There are three points to the bill. An offer is made to consider the reduced procedure. I ask the deputies to vote. Attention, national deputies! Short-term procedure. [[16:43:22]] For-166 Against 85, held – 10, not voted – 136. Decision taken. I ask the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. And then he's the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u24	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, for your consideration the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 230 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products) developed by the government in the framework of the implementation of the Action Plan for the Improvement of Excise Taxation. The changes are designed to improve the functioning of the duties of members of the local authorities of the Mindhodes at excise warehouses and do not complicate the work of economic operators. In particular, the draft law proposes that tax control of ethyl alcohol be distributed not only for import operations but also for liquor exports from excise warehouses. The other one. Shorten from three to one day by fax of information on the receipt and removal of ethyl alcohol by a representative of the Mindhodes territorial authority in the excise warehouse to the Mindhodes territorial authority at the location of the liquor buyer. Third. In addition to the entry stamp, the exit is allowed to give the representative of the Mindhodes the right to determine the following information for the cargo consignment note: the time of exit-entry of the vehicle from the excise warehouse area, the indicators of the transport vehicle's submeter. Fix this in the alcohol removal control log. The implementation of the bill will allow additional excise tax revenue to be provided for increased control of the circulation of ethyl alcohol and liquor products. Please support the draft law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat. Who will report from the committee? Please head of the Vitaly Juryovich Homutinnick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The rapporteur has already proven the basic positions of the bill, so briefly. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the control of the circulation of alcohol and the procedure for documenting the import and export of alcohol and liquor products in the territory of excise warehouses. The Minister’s office proposes to introduce the tax code to article 230 of the Tax Code, which regulates the issue of excise duty. These proposals relate to the documentation of imports of ethyl alcohol. A reduction from 3 days to 1 day of reporting by a representative of the tax authority when importing or exporting ethyl alcohol, as well as a ban on transporting ethyl alcohol without proper marking by the representative of the tax authority on the consignment note. The committee considered the bill. There was some discussion on the committee on this subject, and not all the members of the committee agreed to cut the deadline. And the committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u27	Thank you. Willing to Discuss? if the procedure is shortened, they are speaking. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like you to sign up from the factions for the performance: 2 for the show, 2 for the faction against the factions. Switzerland, Freedom Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u29	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u30	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The U.S. Freedom Union will only support this bill because the smallest wishes and the smallest additions to the control bodies that control excise and excise goods today will always be supported. Although we know and you all see that this law is such a law that it takes eyes away, it's a law for ossification to show today that the government is working for its indicators, for improvement, to show to the people that they are adopting very strong and serious bills. But in general, this bill tells us that today a huge amount of raw and black vodka is being sold uncontrolledly in every area. For example, in the Lviv region today, up to 70 to 100 furs of so-called gray or black mustard of counterfeit and smuggled, which is part of a shadow government program, is called a software vodka. Today, vodka is sold in the territory of Lvivščina at a price of between 9.50 and 13 bracelets per bottle. Since the implementation of this counterfeit product, these are all structures called, for example, the "Avocation", called "Arya vin", "Universal", "Olmar," they get roughly 100-150 million dollars per year. This is a huge amount that could go today to improve the real state of the social sphere, to improve pensions, to raise wages in medicine and in the social sphere. Dear Society, if we do not use radical measures today to improve the real one, we will not take measures to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u31	It's Vitaly Call's Faction, Him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Caplin Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u33	Please hand over Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u34	Capplin Sergey, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, electoral district 144, Poltava. It's not an assumption, it's completely uneconomically justified, it's a completely criminal norm, and it's going to mean the following. I want taxpayers, individuals, and legal persons to understand that. What are we talking about? In fact, in the future, after the liquor-helicopter industry at the door of each enterprise, first the ones that produce alcohol, the ones that produce vodka, and then it's going to be the loaves, the milk factories, the farms, and it's going to end simply by the physical persons who do business, and the physical persons who pay taxes. So there's a tax officer at your door who's going to control when you walk in, when you get out, what you're exporting and what you're importing and all that. In fact, that's the norm we're starting, we're opening up the building of real tax imperialism. Or grow up like today's Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenko, and I'll remind you that he grew up in the tax police networks he led. This is the kind of minister that these officials are growing up in this corrupt environment. If you want to raise more taxes on the budget, start by taxing at a higher rate, as is accepted worldwide, in Europe, those who receive profits in a corrupt way. Not that it's like today, when we get from PDF, that simple poor people fill the budget by 99 percent, and rich people fill the budget by one percent. Stop pretending to be a simple person and rob him of his wages, and take better than those who earn their profits. And last but not least, it's the Party of the Regions that controls the boozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u35	Party of regions, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u36	I invite young Ukrainian national deputies to follow my words carefully. Words need to be answered. If you have the fact that the entire Party of Regions, one and a half million citizens, coordinate the production of liquor, you name it. Man, this is a law that is a real step in the fight against corruption. The entire network of the allowable is being shut down. Allowance procedures. What's with the alcohol? Take the law into your hands, read: milk and dairy products, beekeeping, veterinary products, the things the whole of Ukraine is talking about today, and the whole of Ukraine is screaming. And one more thing. I'd like you young deputies to work on yourself. It's not that hard: take the law into your hands, read it. If you lack strength, at least read the conclusions and see what they mean. And you're not just retreating from yourself, you're speaking from the whole faction of that smart man's name and you're knitting shit. Colleagues, I don't understand the position of opposition. They call things unacceptable to fight, and the government introduces a bill to overcome these negative things. At the same time, this bill cannot be supported. Why did I sign up for it? I propose that this bill be adopted by the government as a basis. In general, it is, indeed, not yet acceptable. He needs a norm technician, he needs work, but on the basis of this bill, he needs to be adopted. It's not the creation of some mythical anti-corruption bureau, it's the real steps towards fighting corruption, because the reasons behind these corruptions are eliminated, namely, the extra-liberal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u37	Faction Fatherland, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u38	The "Fatherland" faction, Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to National Deputy Constantine Bondarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u39	I'd like you to tell Bondareva.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u40	Constantine Bondarev, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I'd like to propose to the old MPs, from the medieval MPs, but still read the bill that's under consideration. Because beekeeping or dairy is not there, and indeed there is a problem of alcohol. I would also like to remind our colleagues that legislation provides that only state companies can produce alcohol today. The question, therefore, is only about identifying the interdisciplinary conflicts that exist. I also want to get more money from the companies I own. I called this law last night at the faction, it's an image law, it doesn't solve a problem that really exists. But this is the problem that was solved at customs ten years ago and the electronic delivery control system was introduced. You have to put it in, and you have to take it in the government. But he's taking this headache to the Supreme Council. This is a matter to be settled, but not in these walls. Please, officials, don't distract society for nothing. You came up with something by fax to pass on. Pass it on to the TV team! You don't have to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u41	I beg of you, National Deputy Capplin, one minute. And we make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u42	Dear Party of Regions and personally the National MP who addressed me! Listen, you mixed honey with vodka. It's not the law at all, it's not the norm. And once again, I would like you to stop with the hands of Parliament, which should abolish criminal pension reform, reduce taxes, give life to the economy, give life, not exist to ordinary Ukrainian people, build mechanisms for itself to enrich the Party of Regions' budget: introduce your own money in the form of bills that you and the communists accept, appoint ministers of internal affairs who fake testimony about what has been done, and so on. Take a better view of the economy, take a better look at your program -- what you wrote on boards and postcards. And read the order of the day carefully, because you're confused about your hysteria, and you're confused about which bill is now being adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit in the cities and prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration 2403) to amend article 230 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (controlling the circulation of alcohol and liquor products) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:58:05]] For 247 Against 56, abstaining 13, not voting 76. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act (registration number 2139) amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons (registration number 2139) to simplify the registration of persons as taxpayers. How will we view it? Short-term procedure? Please vote. [[16:59:10]] For 175 Against 81, held – 11, not voted – 126. Decision taken. I'm asking you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. And then the committee head's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u44	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a bill that is proposed to greatly simplify the procedure for the registration of persons as taxpayers. It is to allow, in the course of the national registration of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs to submit, together with the registration card, an application to obtain a certificate: first, a single tax payer or a tax payer for the added value. The project provides that an electronic copy of an application for registration of a VAT payer or an arms of a simplified tax system is transmitted by the State registry to the DPS authorities on the day of the state registration at the same time as the registration card. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has also adopted Bill 2029, which amends the Ukrainian Tax Code accordingly. For the practical implementation of the proposed mechanism for simplifying the registration of persons as taxpayers and for the purpose of eliminating disagreements in the application of the requirements of legislation, these two laws should take effect simultaneously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u45	Sit down, thank you. Head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Politics, Alexander Volodymyr Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed by the government to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs on simplifying the registration of persons as taxpayers, the basis was reported by Mr. Merkowski's deputy minister. I would like to highlight some questions. This bill can only be put into operation and introduced with a bill amending the Tax Code for the Registration of Persons as Taxpayers. This bill was adopted a month ago on the first reading. And we need to, I think, prepare for the second reading together, two committees and look at them together. Because they only have to work together. What is positive for entrepreneurs. I point out that only voluntarily, if an entrepreneur has signed a tax administration agreement and received a free electronic key from them, he has the opportunity to go and register. And then write an electronic statement immediately about what it is, for example, chose a simplified tax system. And what I think is, I think it's very positive, is that for the first time a system is being implemented that you can immediately become a VAT payer when you register. Not before, as you recall, 300,000. And with taxes, there's still a lot of problems. But, as always, there is a spoon of tar on this barrel of honey, which I think is very unpleasant. I'd like to take a look at this committee that's been working with us on autistic technologies. Back in 2009, as early as 2009, we were gathering all the market participants involved in this electronic data transfer technology. It was then 7 firms in Ukraine. Now, I'm also paying attention to the deputy minister of finance who gave me information along with Mr. Geller that this bill doesn't need budget money. But, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u48	Thank you. But, dear friends, I'm paying attention, today was all that's left. No firm is left with just a tax company that gives entrepreneurs these electronic keys for free every year, but entrepreneurs pay them 500 or 800 dollars per service. There is no commercial firm left in this market. It's dangerous. And the Ministry of Finance told us frankly, and we've got help on the committee, and we've been looking at it, that the introduction of this complete change and the transmission of information is possible as of January 1, 2014. But 100 percent, once again, I want to turn to everyone, I think that this bill needs to be supported in the first reading, and we're going to work on it together on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u49	Willing to Discuss? Please sign up for factions. I'm asking for the "Freedom" Melnik merger.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u50	Please pass the word to Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u51	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u52	There is a significant observation that it is not the fact that an electronic key will be given to entrepreneurs for free. And that's why it's the first remark. It's like it's in the simplified procedure bill, but this simplicity is just cosmetic. There are no significant changes in the law itself. And so I want to remind you that the MPs from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association have submitted their bill on simplified procedures for subjects of entrepreneurial activity, which refers to, indeed, a very simple and transparent registration scheme. And we would like this bill to be considered and voted in the session room. That's why we're going to hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u53	It's Vitaly Klitschka, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u54	Please give the word to a well-known entrepreneur named Oksani Prodan. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u55	Thank you very much. It's Vitaly Klitschka, Oksana Prodan. The strike faction has always supported those bills that are really geared towards supporting and developing the economy of Ukraine. This is a bill that can make a project that will improve and help entrepreneurs register and make changes to the register. But I want to take this opportunity to look at the flaws that we're going to need to complete in the second reading. First of all, it is necessary to preserve the ability to register, not in electronic form, but in paper form, for small businesses. Secondly, we must make changes to those bills relating to the administrative reform of the Ministry of Income and Assembly, those changes which deny the Ministry of Income and Assembly and the government as a whole, regarding the free provision by the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, respectively, and by the tax service of all the so-called services provided by law. Because part of the service is provided free of charge today, part of the service is provided exclusively for money. And I want to do the same now, using the opportunity, for government officials to put the state registration system in order. People can't work. Because those queues created in government registries, those problems created earlier, and those problems that now exist and will exist in connection with the transfer of the State Register to the Ministry of Justice, all lie at the expense of Ukrainian citizens. Because they lie at the cost of goods and services for which every citizen is paid from child to pensioner. We support this bill and we will work on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u56	Party of regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u57	The person I want to help entrepreneurs and individuals is Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u58	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is being considered at the proper time today. The bill proposes to simplify the procedure for the registration of persons as taxpayers for the added value and the selection of a simplified system of taxation, namely: the provision of a declaration to the public registrar for the registration of a tax payer for the added value or the selection of a simplified system of taxation at the same time as the registration card issued for the conduct of a national registration of a legal person or a natural person who is an entrepreneur. This bill does not require extra money from the budget but vice versa. Because the tax service should not contradict the entrepreneur, but rather support the entrepreneurs, allow them to earn money in our country and not interfere with the work. So the faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill in the first reading, and this bill could be adopted on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u60	People's MP, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u61	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, "For Ukraine!" The city of Kyiv. Dear colleagues, we support this bill on the basis, but we want to pay attention. It's kind of hard to call it that with the loud words "simplification." Note, today the Ministry of Assembly and Income suggests that the entrepreneur seek first the Ministry of Assembly and Income and then the Administrator. What difference does it make what is? None at all. Just take the electronic keys. At the same time, I point out that we are here with you the approved Law on Administrative Services stipulates that such things must be done directly by the authority or the representative of the authority. That is, this registration in a keyless tax office, without a proper walk of business to the tax office, can be done by the registration service, free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u63	So we're going to work on this and the second reading project, focusing on simplifying it rather than imitating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u64	One minute, National Deputy Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u65	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think there's no secret to anyone that working conditions for business in Ukraine are one of the worst in the world. This is illustrated by all the surveys and information published by international organizations. We have first place in the world of equal corruption, equal regulation of the economy. In neighbouring Moldova, for example, it takes 2 weeks to start your own business, in Ukraine -- 2 years to go to get help, licenses, permits to set up small-scale kiosks. And then we wonder why we don't have economic growth, why we don't have budget income, why our entrepreneurs aren't able to feed their families. So, of course, a bill that simplifies registration needs to be supported, but that's not enough. I think the next initiative that the government is going to take is a radical tax reduction, a radical deregulation of economic relations, especially in the area of entrepreneurial activity. Give people the opportunity to work! Don't rob the Ukrainian people! Get off the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2139) to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons Entrepreneurs) to simplify the registration of persons as tax payers. Please vote. [[17:12:46]] For 303 Against-0, held-38, didn't vote-47. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law approving the 2013-2017 General Purpose Science and Technology Space Programme is being introduced. How do we view it? Short-term procedure. Please vote. [[17:13:41]] For-167 Against 79, held-13, not 130. Decision taken. Reported by the deputy head of the State Space Agency, Sergey Alexiyovich Drought. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u67	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The presented project of the State-wide Space Science and Technology Programme 2013-2017 is the first stage in implementing the Concept for the Implementation of State Policy in the Field of Space Activities by 2032, approved by the Government. The objective of this programme is to transfer space technologies to the real sector of the national economy, to ensure the development and effective use of Ukraine's space potential to address current national challenges. In particular, when the program is implemented: To launch a space-based remote sensing device "Network-2.1" and ensure that its data is used effectively for the benefit of operators, management and scientific activities; To release the first-created Microsoft science satellite and launch an international space experiment called Ionosat Micro, initiated by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine; Carry out the first point of the Cylon-4 missile project from the Alkantar space station in Brazil and ensure that it is further commercially exploited; Create a national satellite communications system by launching and operating the swan spacecraft for the first time in years of independence to ensure the creation and launch of a university satellite; Ensure the implementation of space activities in the interests of national security and defence, and enhance international cooperation in space exploration for peaceful purposes. The total amount of funding for the program over the course of five years is 2 billion 580 million dollars, including from the State budget 1 billion 120 million dollars. A special feature of the program is the considerable amount of funds involved from other sources, about a billion 460 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u68	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u69	The implementation of the program will enable us to form an economically competitive, diversified space-based sector and transform it into an effective tool of state policy. Please support the bill, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u70	Thank you, sit down. Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy Vitaly Alexanderovich Negligent Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u71	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the approval of the State-wide Science and Technology Space Programme for 2013-2017. The bill proposes to approve a state-wide targeted science and technology space program aimed at increasing the use of space potential. Members of the committee considered the bill set out on March 19, 2013. Before considering the bill, the results of the previous third space programme for 2008-2012 were considered. It has been noted that 26 successful launches of Ukrainian carrier rockets have been carried out with significant results. At the same time, it was pointed out that its full implementation was restrained due to budgetary constraints. In fact, 536 million or 37.8 percent were allocated at the planned cost of 1 billion 417 million dollars. During the discussion of the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies unanimously supported it and suggested that the adoption of the bill and its implementation would allow for the strengthening of the country’s position as a space state. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 25.02.2013, believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Budget Affairs, in its letter of 11 April 2013, reported that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine supported the adoption of the bill and noted its impact on the budget expenditure. The committee decided that the bill would have an impact on the budget. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend the Law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u73	For the results of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u74	Are there speakers? Please sign up for factions. I'm asking for a party of regions, Shawaryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u75	Vladimir Vasilevich, Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u76	Please, Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. We are the sixth state in the world that has a space industry. Please support in general and on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u78	I'm done. Please, Freedom Union, Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u79	Please pass the word to Melnik Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u80	Please tell Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u81	Eugene Melnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Volin. Dear Society, two and a half billion dollars are allocated for the scientific and technical space program in Ukraine. In fact, it's a small amount of money, if you compare it to what the United States or Russia spends. For example: Russia allocates $49 billion to the same program, $40 billion to the United States. But at the same time, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will vote in favour of the adoption of this program, although we clearly realize that half of the funds will be stolen through offshore zones -- and those costs will not fall on the program. At the same time, we clearly understand and understand that in order to develop our space sector, our permanent, shipbuilding, other industries, we need to abolish the criminal tax and customs codes, we need to adopt a new tax code that stimulates the development of our economy and industry. Respectful association, along with understanding, should be noted that funding of the program is made more difficult to reconcile with the Codex Budget. According to paragraph 3 of the bill, this law takes effect from the day it was published. According to part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, Ukraine’s laws or their separate positions that affect the budget and are adopted after the 15th of July, which precedes the planned year, are in force no earlier than the beginning of the planned budget period. But aside from that, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom votes in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u82	I'm asking you, the Ukraine Company, the faction, the Bidevka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u83	Thanks to the impact that we still have from the Soviet Union, Ukraine is now still in the leaders of outer space. And today we have no right not to consolidate this success or at least partially not to preserve it. At the same time, there is a growing market for space services in the world. Ukraine must therefore, in general today, make every effort to maintain these positions in order to develop them, especially as we have tens of thousands of skilled jobs. The only thing I would like to say about this programme is, of course, that I would like to improve its funding, because, in large accounts, $30 million a year is not the figure that our space industry deserves, and not the figure that it is willing to take. I'm sure it's the space industry. Ukraine stands ready to acquire more significant resources, to benefit the country and to take Ukraine to world leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u84	The Fatherland faction, Yavorowski, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski. At the request of the wise and charming woman, Lilia Greenevich, I am willing to give her my two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u86	Please, National Deputy Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! Lilia Grinevich, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction has a point to this bill, and we will support it, but only on a basis, not in general. As head of the Committee on Science and Education, I would also like to point out that the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine also has proposals to make in this bill, in particular with regard to the inclusion in it of research into atmospheric aerosols, which will be the first study in the world of the effects of atmospheric aerosols on climate, environmental conditions and weather. By the way, this confirms the relevance of this direction, the latest climate change in Ukraine. A very important moment is the financing of this program. At the moment, only 17 percent of government funding has been made available to the government from the needs of the state. In this way, we have to provide for special measures in this law to be responsible for the proper financing and implementation of this program, because the planned implementation of this program is broken down and this has an extremely negative impact on the results obtained. Thus, it is important to set up a clear system of control over its implementation by accepting such a program.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u88	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u89	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltawa, 144 constituency. The development of the space sector and the presence of Ukraine and space is one of the key issues of national security above all. And certainly, the question that is related to the future development of our national economy. Think about it! 450 billion, millions of dollars were allocated to the development of the space industry. And this is compared to the multibillion dollar spending of those countries that are competitors of our businesses in all markets in Europe and around the world. At the same time, ordinary Ukrainians need to know that 30 times as much money has been allocated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs! That is: 16 billion dollars! This is the ministry that now allows journalists to be beaten. For the President, he also has billions of dollars, for the prosecutor's office, 4 billion dollars a year. Ten times more than in space! Shame! Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u90	I ask the deputies to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2298) on the approval of the State-wide Science and Technology Programme for 2013-2017. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[17:27:08]] For 327 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-54. Decision taken. Show by factions. The draft Act (No. 2459) amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act (the Regulation of the Grain Market) is being tabled. How do we view it? Members, please vote, with a reduced procedure. [[17:27:57]] For-174 Against 72, held – 14, not voted – 21. Decision taken. Reporting by Ukraine’s national deputy, Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine (regulating the grain market), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Philippenk, Bondar and Kulinić. This bill proposes to make certification of the quality of the seed voluntary, except for the grain purchased at the expense of government funds. By the way, voluntary certification of grain was introduced by the government in September 2012. However, it was cancelled in December 2012. Today, in Ukraine, almost no expert grain operation has been carried out without the conclusion of an international pre-shipment inspection, known as “surveiers. ” These are international companies that bear not only reputational but also financial responsibility for their findings on grain quality. We may feel that the incorrect conclusion of the Sustainable Inspection of the quality of the grain may already threaten the buyer’s legal claims. In exporting more than $8 billion of grains, providing guarantees of quality on behalf of the holder poses serious financial risks to the budget. Another suggestion of the bill is the introduction of an uninterrupted certification of the quality of grain storage services. In Ukraine the total capacity and storage of grain is estimated at 33 million tons. Of these, some 23 million tons are found in private businesses. The quality of storage services is certified by a certificate of quality. Think of it as just one year. It turns out that each year before harvest, this quality certificate needs to be renewed. Timeless certification does not deprive market subjects and the State of quality control. And the State Inspectorate will be able to cancel the certificate if it checks out the breach. That's why we're proposing this law to establish an uninterrupted certification of cereals. Taking into account the above, the adoption of the bill will ensure the efficiency of the grain market in Ukraine and will help to reduce costs at all stages of the movement of grain crops and their processing products. Colleagues, given that all our crops are now in the fields and not too soon after the harvest, I ask you in case of a vote of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u92	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u93	Thank you, Mr. Head. If we vote on this bill as a basis, I ask that our grainhouses do not let people normally gather crops, vote on this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u94	Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kupczak Volodymyr Romanovich. Report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u95	Honorary Volodymira Vasilovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on 16 April 2013 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine (registration number 2459) (registration number 2459) (registration number 2459) (referred to by Ukrainian National Deputies Philippenk, Bondarm and Kulinič). This draft law of Ukraine is called upon to achieve optimum deregulation of the grain market by simplifying the certification mechanism for grain storage services and certification of grain quality, as well as the harmonization of individual rules of law among themselves and with other legislative acts. Taking into account the changes proposed in the project will allow our agricultural producers to reduce their logistic costs, increase the competitiveness of Ukrainian grain in world markets, reduce the bureaucratic burden of preparing accompanying documents for grain, and reduce the loss of time in shaping the mobile composition of grain wagons. As a result of the meeting, the committee decided to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine (registration of the grain market) (registration number 2459) and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u96	If you'd like to make a statement, please sign up for the faction. Please, Party of Regions, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u97	Please pass the word to the Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u98	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we know how many abuses there have been in the grain market regarding certification. We know from history when grains of the first category were removed from Ukraine in the form of grains of the third and price differences were placed in the pocket. And today the government has done everything we can to move on to European and world standardization and certification of grain. Therefore, this bill should be supported in the first reading. To the second, make it optimal, ideal, if you want to move in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u100	Freedom Union, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u101	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u102	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u103	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The U.S. Freedom Union will clearly support this bill, as it will allow peasants to collect less information, less permission, and pay less bribes to officials. A change in the mandatory annual certification of the quality of grain storage services will also make it possible for the elevators to work better. Repealing the mandatory certification of grain quality will in no way affect the safety of the grain. Because the phytosanitary certificates haven't been canceled or canceled. There is no such certification in Europe at all. Also not in Russia, it was canceled in 2011. In America more than 15,000 tons are required to carry out certification. In Ukraine, the average shipment of grains for export is 8,000 tons. So we think this bill will give the peasants a chance to work better. And it will allow 5 million Ukrainians who are busy in the agricultural sector to increase their profits. So we ask everyone to support these bills, especially this bill, especially given that the government actually cancelled these decrees last year, but the Supreme Council was said to have reinstated mandatory certification of the quality of grain and mandatory certification of grain storage services in December. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u104	The Fatherland faction, Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u105	Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland, Dniproperty. Honorable colleagues, the presiding lord, should probably thank the Most High for showing up in the vast majority who are seriously engaged in agriculture. Therefore, thank God that laws are being made that are not shyly called, but let us call things our names, a serious anticorruption law. There's no certification, there's no propaganda: from every ton of bribe pay and get a certificate, no one's going to go there. Come on, you can multiply 33 million and look at the Internet that's going around. Dear colleagues, and this law, and remember that the hall was built in previous years. Grain export licenses - out of how many operators wanted to make one. How did it end? Space scandal, it didn't work. Export quotas are being introduced, so I'm going to give the quota, so I'm not going to give it; that's why I'm going to give so much. How did it end? A colossal corruption scandal. This does not pass, the year of the largest crop, 50 million tons, is introduced for grain exports. The bribe is essentially a ban on corn, barley, wheat. A crop that surpassed the country’s needs several times remained in Ukraine. Agriculture has lost 14 billion! And most importantly, they lost the markets that took Russia and Kazakhstan -- our traditional and our brothers, but our competitors in the grain market. And all of a sudden, at the end of the year, the Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine (changes). The accepted changes6 were actually cancelled the efforts of the precursors to deregulation of the grain market, since the certificate of conformity of the grain storage services was set for 1 year instead of the deadline before. What came out of it, I said. Guys, thank you. Thank you for coming. Vote in the first, second, and even in one segment, fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Vitalia Calla, Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u107	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller Faction. Please pass the word to Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u108	Please, Taras Kutovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u109	Taras Kutovov, Impact faction, Poltavščina. Well, for all of us today, colleagues, it's not a secret that agriculture is becoming the first link to Ukraine's expertise at all. And today, Ukraine's infrastructure, unfortunately, even having 33 million tons of storage today, of which 23 million tonnes are in private hands today, is not yet ready to provide the indicators that Ukraine can achieve today. So we think this law needs to be supported, to be supported first of all because we know that all certification, all those in agriculture today, doesn't actually happen. It is indeed a corrupt scheme that needs to be stopped immediately today in order to allow today’s harvest, in the harvest, those enterprises that are working for the benefit of Ukraine, to enter peacefully without any complications for themselves. That's why the strike faction supports this bill. Of course, there are still a few points that we hope will be addressed in the second reading. But in the first reading, it is vital that we vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u110	Everyone made a statement. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a bill (register number 2459) amending the Ukrainian grain and grain market law in Ukraine (regulatory regulation of the grain market) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:39:18]] For 299 Against 0, holding back - 1, not voting - 85. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] People’s MP, Philippeenko, makes a proposal in general. What does the reporter say? Oh, no? So the point is, the committee will work and make a proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are the motives? Let the committee work and in the second reading we will consider. I'll bet. The draft Act No. 2414 on amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (regarding the increase in expenditure on treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad). How do we view it? Short? Please vote deputies. [[17:40:58]] For 177 Against 82, held – 14, not voted – 110. Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Each of us receives a huge number of letters, including the cry of a person’s soul, parents, because of the extreme illness of children in need of treatment outside Ukraine. In previous years, the government budget allocated 60 million dollars or more. Unfortunately, in the 2014 budget. There are fewer than 14 million available for 2013. Today, in turn, as it were, I will use the word, there are 25 people who need immediate treatment abroad, of whom 21 are children. This requires an additional 38 million dollars. I realize that it is for the state, even in times of economic hardship, that it is not a sum that can be lifted. So this bill is proposed, and it's considered at the Committee on Budget Affairs, and the committee has made a positive decision: to take this project as a basis, and as a law, taking into account the clarifications that I find in the findings of the scientific and scientific administration, the fact that the bill defines the sources of these costs. The source is the excise tax on imported goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. I ask you very much, Your Honor, to make this decision because time is not waiting. I must also say that we have repeatedly addressed our time, the deputies, including myself, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the suggestion of organizing appropriate treatment in Ukraine. And for starters, create a bone marrow donor bank. But it's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u112	Let me finish. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u113	Unfortunately, for various reasons, we lack the capacity to do what we did in Belarus, and we are successfully treated, including by Ukrainian citizens. Please be very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u114	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugene Borisovich Geller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u115	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 17 April considered draft law 2414: amending the State Budget Act 2013. The bill provides for an increase of 38 million dollars in the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. I note that the additions to the bill contain a number of inaccuracies and errors that are set out in the Committee's letter of origin and that should be removed to ensure that the State Budget indicators are balanced if supported by the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, generally supporting the legislative proposal, notes that a balanced decision requires an expert conclusion from the government. The Ministry of Finance is of the view that it is appropriate to consider appropriate proposals in the development of complex changes to the State Budget 2013 Act in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Final Provisions Act, according to which the government, based on the monitoring of the implementation of the State budget, is expected to make proposals for raising social standards and their financial security. On the basis of the draft bill, the Committee on Budget Issues approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 2414 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u116	Deputies! Let's make a decision on the basis that children can be treated. So the committee with the Ministry of Finance will work, and we'll get back to that. May I put it to a vote? Please sign up for factions. Please hit Vitalia Calla, national deputy sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u117	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u118	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u119	Pavlov Rosenko, Vitalia Clitchko faction. I would like to draw the attention of all the Ukrainian national deputies to the words that the head of the budget committee has just said. Indeed, the end of the State Budget, approved by the previous Supreme Council, clearly states that on the basis of the economic indicators of the first. and the summation of the first quarter of 2013 of the Government introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine complex changes and additions to the State budget of Ukraine. So I want to remind the government that the first quarter of 2013 was almost two months ago, but so far in the Supreme Council, the project is complex for changes and budget additions. The point is that today the financing of all budgetary institutions — primarily schools, scientific institutions, health care funding — is sufficient by October 2013. Today, in all the higher educational institutions, teachers are forced to write applications at their own request for a two - week vacation each month. Because there's not enough funding. Therefore, the strike faction clearly supports the bill passed by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. But on the other hand, it requires the government to implement the Ukrainian State Budget Act. And immediately, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, change the state budget of Ukraine, where it provides for the indexation of salaries for budget workers, the indexation of pensions and the indexation of all social benefits for 2013. It's a requirement of the impact faction. And I ask the Head of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u120	Thank you. Party of regions, Zac National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u121	I'm asking you to give the floor to the man who's really into it, the Vladimir Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u123	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! This bill, introduced by the Lithuanian National MP, is timely and important. Because children are the light and our future. In this bill everything is in order for us to accept it. I want to say for two minutes that there is much that can be done in our health care. But the Ministry of Health is doing too much of the work of its experts in the procurement of medicines and medical equipment. And they don't care about the health of our children. So the faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill. And I think we should take it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u124	Please, Fatherland faction, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u125	Yavorovsky, Troustina, Kiev I am happy to give my word to my neighbor, the European wine girl Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u126	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, Party of the European Party of Ukraine. You know, the more the medical experiment on Ukraine's health, which is now going into six areas, the more unfortunately we're going to be looking at such bills when we're temporarily doing something, saving someone like a fire machine. I was pleased to hear now the position of the Party of Regions, which actually said that it is opposed to an active government on health issues. Because what is happening today with the closure of hospitals is nothing can be called simply the destruction of the health care sector of Ukrainian citizens, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Of course, the Fatherland faction will support this bill in both the first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u127	I'm sorry. People's MP Spireen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my session for 15 minutes. There's been a lot of breaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u130	The Communist Party of Ukraine supports this bill. But we do. We are aware of the following. 38 million is a very small sum. This is a ridiculous sum to treat such children. Compared to European countries, this is 10 times less than the amount proposed in the bill. Secondly, this sum will save a very large psychological conflict between parents. That is why we support this bill, but we must continue to take into account that such bills, they must be calculated and should not violate the dignity of our children. Because this amount is not worthy of treatment for these children.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u131	I beg of you, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u132	Andrew Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u133	Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u134	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Of course, helping sick children is a sacred thing and, of course, the state and we as a parliament should help and help these children. And of course, we will vote in favour of this issue and this bill. But social justice should not be done manually. A systemic problem such as illness, such as illness in children who cannot be treated in Ukraine, should be resolved systematically, not at the last minute. Because we understand perfectly what's in the background, and we've told my colleagues quite correctly, that this is not about reform, but about the deformities that are taking place in Ukraine today, called the so-called medical reform, that is a very relevant issue. Because when hospitals are closed, when hospitals are closed, when clinics are closed, it turns out that our health system is so degraded that there is no other option for children to treat abroad. And of course, it's important that one more moment, that money is important. And it's important that this money really gets to these kids. And so that they don't get stolen, and that these kids really do, they get the treatment right, and they get the good stuff. So with these warnings, of course, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u135	Please turn on the microphone, Easy, non-factionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u136	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported and those who say that 38 million is a small sum will know everything in comparison. For a beggarly family with a sick child, every penny of gold is for that family. And these three dozen families waiting for surgery, they have to get this help. But at the same time, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, I propose that this law be passed in general to ensure that this money goes to the treatment of our children without delay. And there's something else I'd like to say. I have registered with the Supreme Council a bill to stop the financing of state funds, which this year have a budget of 56 million dollars. Once again, this money is directed toward the treatment of cancerous children. I'm asking you to immediately put this bill, look at it in the Supreme Council and support it, channel funds for the treatment of sick children, for the treatment of sick Ukrainian citizens. I call upon the entire room, regardless of the policy, to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (No. 2414) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to increase the cost of treating Ukrainian citizens abroad) for adoption as a basis. There were observations. Let's take it as a base, I'll ask, there'll be votes, I'll put it in. On the basis of that, please vote. [[17:55:56]] For 326 Against – 0, held – 0.53 – did not vote. Decision taken. The factions. A proposal in general, can we put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2414) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to increase the cost of treating Ukrainian citizens abroad) as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:56:49]] For 318 Thank you. - 318 against - 0 held - 0 didn't vote - 57. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for the first-line free provision of sanatorium and smoking treatment for persons with disabilities of war). How do we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:57:45]] For-163 Against 77, with 11, with no vote – 119. Decision taken. I ask you to include a microphone of the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! National MP Suškević, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. The situation is that I'm speaking here and as the author, and as the chairman of the committee on the fact that there is today a review of this bill in our room. Dear colleagues, first of all in the essence of the bill, you know, many times I have addressed and addressed the government, to the budgetary committee, trying to pay attention to our veterans and the disabled of the Great Homeland War. These people have made the Ukrainian state, these people have the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantees their social protection. Listen: guarantees of social protection for disabled, war veterans. And speaking of war invalids, that's a special subject. Those who have lost their health have become disabled by war, and today there is a failure to comply with Ukraine’s law, and that is a sad problem. All my efforts, those affecting the increase in the state budget's spending on what's affecting, in particular, the provision of more travel for the disabled, unfortunately, remain unsettled. In the State Budget Act, we have a steady tendency to cut costs, I mean statistics on what concerns the provision of travel for people with disabilities of war. Moreover, the price goes up and the number of war invalids goes down by tens of thousands each year. And the state, even though they're getting smaller and smaller, doesn't provide them with sanitation. Two digits. 2010: Provision of travel for disabled veterans of war 36.2 2011: Insurance for disabled veterans of war 33.4 per cent of the need. And last year, the number of war veterans who were provided with sanatorium treatments has dropped by almost 4,000 -- only 23,000 veterans. Dear colleagues, I have been forced to write a law that has no money, but which, at least, improves the provision of the disabled with sanatorium treatment. And I propose that we give the disabled of the Great Homeland War the primary right of extracurriculars to get a trip to sanatorium treatment. This is my forced norm and my appeal to the hall and to the government, and to the President at least to pay some attention to the support of the people with disabilities of war. And that's why I'm now the chairman of the committee, and I want to say that we supported all the committee members at the committee meeting to uphold this rule of law and hope that the hall will also support it. There is no committee on budget comments to the bill. Ukraine’s law, unfortunately, is not necessary. The State Budget Act of Ukraine does not require additional expenditure to ensure the implementation of this law, my law. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the results of the first reading can be found on the ground. The Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the State Service on Disability and Veterans supports this socially oriented bill. And our committee, once again, is offering to take it as a basis. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u139	Hanna Herman, please. And what I'll give everyone from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u140	Dear friends! This is a simple matter. We don't have to put the problem on the President's side. The Supreme Council has a system of sanatoriums and resorts used by national deputies and their assistants. Let's pass these directions to the disabled of the Great Homeland War and deal with an easy, easy question. And you don't need the President to drop that question on your back.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u141	I'm asking you, Kunicin, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u142	Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The Vitalia Klitschko faction, Sergey Kunicin. As a member of the Afghan War, the veteran and head of the veterans' subcommittee, I want to say that the Vitalia Klicka faction supports this law. But shame is that 70 years after the war, we put extraordinaries first. It's a shame for us and the state that we can't provide after 70 years of war with the travels of war veterans. So I don't think anyone would deny that we voted in favour of this law. And Hannah Mikolayevna made a very good offer. There could be tens of thousands of veterans of the Great Homeland War and Afghans and MP's money for the treatment of both apartments and cars and travel, too. So we support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u143	The Communist faction, please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u144	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this law. Because it's about those people who paid the most expensive price to win — their own health or their own lives. I have recently visited two sanatoriums: the Victory Sanatorium of the Ministry of Social Policy and the Center for Social Protection of War Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, which are located in the village of Cibli in the Kyiv region, and I have once again found that these people need our help. Indeed, we must do our utmost to repay those debts to this golden generation of our country. Let us not forget that the youngest creator of the Great Victory over Fascism is now 86-87. So I urge you to support this bill. At the same time, I believe that it can be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u145	Thank you. Freedom and Fatherland. Freedom, Leonov, please. And then we'll be Katerinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u146	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Of course, when we consider such a bill, we must first point out that they are people who are very old and should not forget their needs, we should not forget that they are Ukrainian citizens, and they have really put their health into what they thought was right once or when their state was just throwing meat into some kind of meat. Unfortunately, we leave some old language in this law: the war with Japan, the Great Homeland War. There was World War II, there was no separate war with Japan, there was no separate country war. And there was World War II. And this formulation would be much more appropriate and it could help to avoid many political issues. As far as the MPs are concerned, we will not forget that there are still presidential houses, but there is also the Midianites, which have beautiful pools, debarcader, and ground rabbits. It might be interesting for veterans to look at such exotic animals, for they too are not able to travel in exotic lands. Tom, yes, perhaps leaping from the stumps would be very beneficial for the health of the veterans. So, my friends, let's not forget that there's actually a system of social injustice in the state. And we need to limit our social guarantees and benefits to MPs, officials, presidents and direct these funds and these benefits to the veterans of World War II, to the benefit of the people who created Ukrainian independence, the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army, and all the fighters who formed our independent state with you, which is why we are so well represented here in the warm cabinets. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill. And we will also fight for further improvement, real improvement, military and veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u147	Catherinechuk, the Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u148	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, Party of the European Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You know, in politics, they talk a lot about the word "justice." This justice is thus measured by the attitude towards such a category of people, which unfortunately the author is trying to draw attention to by his bill. There is no way to solve the issue of failure to comply with existing legislation by other laws, and he understands that. But it only brings in for the ruling elite today, the Party of Regions, to realize that not only does it have to be in all the streets on 9 May to say that we are fighting fascism, but it also needs to be minimally human to those people who have really struggled with fascism and are now, unfortunately, not in the way that they could go out and say their position. I am grateful to the drafter of the bill for his initiative. The Fatherland faction will support it in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u149	May I have a moment, National Deputy Lazko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u150	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think that every person in this room understands that the disabled of war, who put their lives behind us to be free from the Nazi yoke, deserve our support and help. Unfortunately, you see, the budget says that people with disabilities don't have money. When Health Minister Bagathirwa goes to the Mercedesi Service Department in Louis Whitton, there's money for that. And to give free travel to the disabled of war, there's no money for that. I would like to mention separately, taking advantage of the opportunity that we are discussing such an important topic, I would like to mention the individual associate of the great care of the elderly, the veterans of the war -- this is the head of the hospital in Winnica for the veterans of the war of Valery Babijichuk, who is made legends of a man who gives his health and life to make these days comfortable for the people who have forged the Great Victory. So I think this bill should be supported, and the Ministry of Finance should give more attention to this category of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-21-m1.u151	Thank you. I'm voting on draft Law 1086 on the amendment to article 13 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection (for the first-line free provision of sanatorium treatment for war invalids) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[18:10:21]] For 294 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 67. Decision taken. A proposal as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote: to adopt draft Law 1086 as a whole. Please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, another law for people 85 years of age. Wait three minutes. [[18:11:05]] For 289 Against - 0, held – 0, not voted – 70. By that law, the decision has been made. It is submitted for consideration, listen to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for social protection of participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities of war II and II groups of wartime with Japan 1945, age 85 and over). There's an offer: to take as a basis and as a whole. I would like to vote on who is in favour of adopting the draft law (registration number 1087) on the basis of which I would like to vote in general. [[18:12:30.]] For 289 Against 0. Hold on to 0. No vote - 65. Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. Thanks for the job.
