ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u1	Honorable National MPs. I'm asking you to invite the deputies. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:05:33]] A total of 387 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear national deputies, a meeting was held. I'm asking for your attention! A meeting of factions was held, and we agreed to approve the weekly schedule for the session. That's the first one. The other one. Consider the following questions today. We will consider the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities to maintain international peace and security in 2012. That's the report you have, we're going to consider it. It is suggested that the elections be considered in rural and rural councils for city heads and village council members. That's the second question. And look at the ratifications that are and that we planned to consider in order of the day tomorrow. For tomorrow, instead of ratifying, to include issues of opposition. Three questions, we agreed, we include the Freedom faction. Now we're looking at the impact faction of our question. And so today we're going to consider ratification, and tomorrow we're going to consider all the laws that will be included by the opposition. Is that clear? I see. Next. That's why I, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council of factions, are beginning to work and we are considering a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities in the maintenance of international peace and security.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u2	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u3	On a day-to-day basis. The strike faction should give the law number.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u4	No, no, it's a weekly offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u5	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u6	Let me hear your suggestions. Any MP can make a call, give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u7	It's on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u8	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Mr. Demchenko, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ruslan Demchenko. You killed my head so much, I already did! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is presented to the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities and the maintenance of peace and security in 2012. The report was prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, together with relevant intelligence in January this year, under the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace and security operations. The basic documents for our country's participation in efforts to maintain and restore international peace and security are the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of Ukraine's Internal and External Policy, of 1 July 2010 and the Strategy for Ukraine's International Peacekeeping Activities of 15 June 2009. Ukraine’s participation in operations sponsored by international and regional organizations is primarily due to the obligations of our State within the United Nations. As stressed by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of the UN General Assembly’s rostrum on 24 September this year in New York, Ukraine will continue to make a significant practical contribution to the creation of a safe world. We will use all possible tools for this, including Ukraine's non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council when our country is elected to this body in 2016-2017. In this context, it should be noted in particular that in recent years, Ukraine has had its leadership positions in providing peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the United Nations, especially helicopters. These units are a critical element of the success of the United Nations Mission in a number of regions, especially Africa. Since the UN has a constant need for helicopter technology, this specialization gives Ukraine additional weight to advance the interests and strengthen the positions of our state in this organization as an influential, reliable and predictable player in the international arena, a supporter of international and European security. We expect that Ukraine’s contribution to the UN’s efforts to maintain international peace and security will have a significant impact on the outcome of the campaign to promote Ukraine’s candidature to the unsustainable members of the United Nations Security Council. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013, after the preparation of the report, the Supreme Council approved the President's decision to expand our continent's participation in the UN mission of stabilizing the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to deploy a national contingent to participate in Operation Ocean Shield and Operation European Union "Atalanta". On October 12th, the flag of the Ukrainian naval forces, the Gethman Sagaidajny frigate, began to participate in NATO's Ocean Shield anti-piracy operation, with the prospect of participating in the European Union Operation Atalanta, starting in January of the following year. Thus today, Ukrainian Armed Forces and Interior Ministry officials are participating in 13 international peace and security operations, including seven operations under the auspices of the UN — Cyprus, Congo, the Territory. Kosovo, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Sudan, one operation led by the European Union, the Gulf of Aden, four operations led by NATO - Kosovo, Afghanistan, the Mediterranean, the Horn of Africa, one operation under the auspices and for the promotion of the OSCE in a joint peacekeeping force - the Transnistrian region. In general, our nation holds third place in Europe after Italy and France, with the number of peacekeepers involved in the UN peace-keeping operation. Dear national deputies, we do not view participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations as a profitable activity. Nevertheless, it provides considerable revenue to our State’s state budget. So in 2010, the United Nations Secretariat reimbursed Ukraine about $18 million, in 2011 about $20 million, in 2012 27 million. Promoting national interests is greatly facilitated in relations with such countries or regions, where Ukraine is making a significant contribution to ensuring the success of a peacekeeping operation. The United Nations Mission in Liberia, the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire and the UN Mission for Stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the helicopters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been deployed, meet this criterion. In the absence of diplomatic institutions in these countries, the participation of Ukrainian national contingents in the task creates our nation's image of a strong international player, a country with developed scientific and technical and military potential. Let me give you just a few examples. Since 2010, Ukraine has promoted a contract for the repair of helicopters in Senegal at airline companies in Ukraine. Contract signed, completed. Côte d’Ivoire itself became one of Ukraine’s most important trading partners in Africa south of the Sahara. In 2012, it accounted for nearly $205 million, over 65 percent of the previous year. Since the start of Ukraine’s national contingent in the United Nations Mission in Liberia, Ukrainian exports to the country have increased more than 40 times. Ukraine's participation in operations under the auspices of international and regional organisations, particularly the UN, the European Union and NATO, contributes to the acquisition of Ukrainian Armed Forces and Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs personnel of valuable professional experience, the maintenance of higher education and military readiness, and the strengthening of the interrelationship of forces and resources. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by drawing attention to one of the pressing issues related to Ukraine’s participation in UN peacekeeping operations. Its settlement is directly within the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In recent years, there has been a practice of incorporating into the laws that approve the President's decision to send national contingents to UN peacekeeping operations, the contingent's boundary terms that coincide with those established by the UN Security Council. Such practices are not only well - founded but also create misunderstandings at the United Nations Secretariat. In line with existing procedures and decades of practice, the UN Security Council periodically extends the mandate of active peacekeeping missions, usually for one year. This resolution is usually approved by the UN Security Council a few days before the end of the mission. What, though, if the Supreme Council is on vacation on days when it is necessary to approve a new law in a strict time frame or if it is unable to consider a project for other objective reasons? In the end, it is the international prestige of our nation, the image of Ukraine in the United Nations. It is therefore essential to return to the previous practice by which the President's decision to send a national contingent of Ukraine to participate in UN peace-keeping operations is approved by the Supreme Council without setting a deadline for their stay. It is in this format that all decisions of the Supreme Council are approved in this regard. were approved by 2011. In addition, according to article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Organizations for Peace and Security, the Supreme Council has sufficient authority to initiate withdrawals if its participation in operations is considered to be of no use. I sincerely hope that such an approach will be applied on a permanent basis for Parliament's approval of all such decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u11	Thank you. Is there a question for the people's deputies? Yes. Please sign up from factions per minute for a question. Please. The Vital Klitschak faction, National Deputy Kaplin. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Minister! I would like to draw the attention of the audience and the radio audience, as well as colleagues, national deputies, to the next question. First. Everyone has to know that in 20 years, in Ukraine's presence at almost all hot spots, she made 50 copies a year in all missions per Ukrainian citizen. While other countries have made hundreds of dollars, thousands more. We can't and can't realize our potential after, the economic potential after participating in these actions. And you have a direct question. You're saying there's been a 40-fold increase in freight traffic with Liberia. Tell me, what is the structure of our exports, and if there is no place for different companies to sell goods there, and ordinary Ukrainian entrepreneurs, manufacturers can't sell anything there because it's all over the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u13	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u14	Dear People's Deputies! Ukraine regularly, including at the highest level, raised questions before the United Nations Secretariat about the pains of major incentives, particularly financial ones for Ukrainian mission contributors within the United Nations. The result of this work is that, for the first time in history, our state's compensation rate is the highest among all States contributing military helicopters. So for example, in 2014, the rate of compensation per hour of flight MI-8 increased from $2,000,584 to $3,000,100. In the UN mission in Côte d'Ivoire and Liberia, MI-24 helicopters, increased by $398, from $3,000,702 to $4,000 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u15	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u16	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u17	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u18	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. First Deputy Minister, I have two questions for you. First question. Ukraine is known to be one of the largest countries to provide peacekeeping operations. A few years ago, we were in a dozen countries that supplied the most peacekeepers. But I would like to ask you why Ukrainian peacekeepers will receive the smallest amount of money. Why, for example, did less Ukrainians receive Mongol soldiers in the Iraqi campaign? Why the country does not support the family of military personnel in Ukraine and why the country does not buy arms for its money, does not buy new supplies for soldiers, and we use old Soviet weapons, and our capabilities are shrinking. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. As far as funding is concerned, I have just answered this question directly — about the increase and efforts of our nation's leadership — to increase the United Nations' compensation for the provision of peacekeeping contingents in Ukraine. And so the figures were direct, and my presentation gave concrete examples over the years, which really showed an increase in funding, in compensation to the United Nations for our peacekeeping activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u20	The Fatherskina faction, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u21	Give the lady a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u22	Please, Papuy, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u23	Please, Little Andrew. Dear reporter! A boy named Andrew, the "Fatherland" faction. For me, one thing remains a mystery. You know, about a week ago, there was another meeting of the NATO Assembly in Dubrovnik, where it was emphasized how Ukraine really participated in peacekeeping operations. And it was pointed out by the Secretary-General that the doors to NATO remain open for Ukraine. A few years ago, on the initiative of Yanukovič, Ukraine's strategic policy after joining NATO was passed into the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. This was clearly done on behalf of the Kremlin and in Moscow’s favor. Tell me, is the President and your government now planning to return the amendment that Ukraine chooses as a strategic direction to join NATO so that we can effectively ensure Ukraine's national security and defence? Do you wonder if you are willing to make such proposals for Ukrainian legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u25	The basic principles of Ukrainian foreign and domestic politics are the neutral status of Ukraine. There are a number of strong arguments in favour of Ukraine's activities in NATO special operations. First, since the operations under the auspices are carried out for the implementation of the Resolution directly by the United Nations Security Council. Ukraine is a trusted partner in maintaining peace and security not only for NATO but also for the international community as a whole. Secondly, the experience gained by the military forces of Ukraine has contributed to the achievement of compatibility and the introduction of standards, high standards in the activities of our army, the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u26	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u27	Please give the floor to the Zarubinski People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u28	Please, Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Ruslan Mikhailovich, the analysis of serious professionals, both domestic and foreign, shows that Ukraine's participation in activities in support of peace and international security has been significant, and the activity itself has been productive, effective and, I would say, fruitful. That's true. That's right. Here's a written report, in a written version of the report that you made, says that Ukraine's participation during the reporting period contributed to strengthening the authority of our nation, creating a climate conducive to the realization of national economic and political interests. As far as political interests are concerned, in principle, it's on the surface, it's understandable. Can you tell how Ukraine’s economic interests have been promoted through our participation in peacemaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u31	Thank you for asking. I've basically identified a few countries where our interests and trade have increased at the same time, here. I can add that. Another example directly of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Military-technical cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been initiated. A positive is the development of Ukrainian exports, the rise in Ukrainian exports, which in the first months of this year has doubled to about $7 million in the United States. There are a number of other examples that would really prove that economic growth is being used as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u32	Thank you. Have a seat. The word for the report is given to the Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u33	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues. I think we have no reason to demonstrate the triumphant self-love of the report on Ukraine's participation in peace-keeping operations. What is more, as I can see, we are again looking at this extremely difficult and responsible task. At the same time, the committee notes that Ukraine’s participation in international operations is both appropriate and beneficial. And above all, because of our poverty, which allows us to get the right money. At the same time, we're saying that Ukraine has 35 seats, it's reduced and lost its position among 115 contributing countries. Bangladesh, which has 200,000 troops, sends contingents, and seeks funding for half its Armed Forces. At the same time, I have to say that Britain is 44, Germany is 52nd, the United States is 61st, Russia is 63rd, Poland is 95th. So the conclusion is obvious. We have to do this in order to provide financial support to our budget, I stress, not the Ministry of Defence, but our budget, and to provide for the study of our armies. The fact is that this allows them to increase the level of Ukrainian military personnel provides them with training in order to have experience of joint action. Including the situation that requires cooperative efforts, including military personnel, to meet the challenges facing the world. I'll give you these figures, my dear colleagues. Forty percent of helicopters have been qualified, 45 percent of military aviation officers. The average flight of our pilots in six months is 120 hours. It takes 10 years to reach such an indicator in Ukraine. To train 75 third - class pilots, nearly 300 million dollars are needed from the government budget. As you can see, there are no such funds in the state budget. What do we have in the positive? In each air force, 1-2 military units have been trained and experienced. Financing. The UN spends $7.3 billion a year on peacekeeping. In 10 years, Ukraine received $354 million from the United Nations. The first problem is the health of military personnel: diseases, psychological stress, because they work in extreme conditions, and then they tell us about themselves that, unfortunately, we don't have to analyze, including family divorce, psychological disorders, and so on. 51 soldiers were killed, of whom only 14 were killed in battle. This is also a huge problem that needs to be addressed. Now, here's to the problems, the respectable colleagues that the committee is focusing on. The military presence is not associated with the increase in Ukraine’s political and economic presence in countries where our military missions are being carried out. This is a key issue that requires coordination at the level of government. The job is practically not done, and the National Security and Defence Council is expected to perform this function. It should be noted that our influence on countries where our military presence is virtually minimal. The next problem is to use the experience of people who have been trained in combat. Another key issue is the implementation of laws that provide social security for these people. Financing. Usually, all the funds that Ukraine receives from the United Nations are included in the general budget fund. There's nothing going on at the Department of Defense. I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to understand that during the UN missions, Ukraine receives the appropriate funds. For our participation in the European Union and NATO operations, we don't get the money, we finance it from our own budget. Let me give you an example. Let me do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u34	How much longer do you need, Vladimir Mikhailovich? How many minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I'm not a pearl-thrower to you. concerning the Regulation. You listen to serious things.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u36	Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u37	One example of normative security is that a soldier from Ukraine receives food for a period of 4 euros and lives in a tent. Meanwhile, the other countries standing next to it are 20 euros and live in a module of 9 square meters per person. And for you, the Rules! The problem with government purchases. Long-term government purchases – this leads to the lack of necessary equipment. We also need to bring this problem in line with the law. Credit debt. It should be assumed that the cost of maintaining peace and related operations should be protected by articles. The committee has prepared an appropriate draft ruling, taking into account the proposals made in the statement made by the first deputy minister, we will work on it and ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a balanced serious decision. Sadly, it seems to me that this is a passing question, and that is not the question at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u38	Thank you. Are there speakers? Yes. I'd like you to sign up for two minutes from the factions. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Butkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u39	Please give the floor to our Minister Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u40	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for the meaningful and qualitative report. There is no doubt about the benefits that our peacemaking activities bring to the world’s security and peace and the authority of Ukraine. Ukraine became the first member of the family of peacemakers in the post - Soviet world. Ukraine signed its first partnership for peace in 1994. Ukraine is an example for other countries and we should be proud to understand that it is better for all to carry the service to Ukraine, the most reliable -- Ukraine, the better location -- the Ukrainians. Hence, the United Nations has always found other security structures to be an honor to invite Ukraine. There are still many outstanding issues, they are contained in the draft decree, and I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be a reliable defender and partner of our Ukrainian peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u42	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u43	I would very much ask the former leaders of the Ministry of Defence, the deputies of the vast majority, as ex-chief of our Parliament Vladimir Litwin has said very precisely, not to throw pearls in front of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukraine’s peacekeeping work is a failure. Not only does it put together Ukrainian soldiers, the sons of our Ukrainian mothers, with the social and military problems that are in the world today, but it does nothing to really support the economic interests of our country. We were literally awakened in Iraq, where our boys stood for peace, and we received no man’s orders there. The same is true at virtually every hot spot. Three bracelets a year earns a Ukrainian citizen what we send to the death of Ukrainian citizens. Today, we have not formed a clear mechanism for involving Ukrainian enterprises in the pursuit of their own economic interests in the countries where our boys were staying, where they stood up for the image of the state. We have today. I'd like to answer the foreign minister more faithfully than he did the question I asked. The export structure is: 50 percent metal, one oligarch, and 50 percent is chemistry, another oligarus Firtash, who also manages the Employers' Federation, and indeed "the slave owners' Federation". He would have to create mechanisms and propose a scheme of how hundreds of Ukrainian enterprises would join in the realization of their economic ambitions in countries where Ukrainian citizens and soldiers are protecting our interests. Instead, we corruptly send soldiers there, you know, we have to pay bribes to go out and make money. In this way, the State formed a labor market.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u44	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivan Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u45	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Mr. Head! Dear First Deputy Minister! The report was indeed specific, but today we are talking about those boys who are defending the honor of our country, who are protecting world peace under the auspices of the UN. We're talking about, as if they're promoting the interests of Ukraine. Yes, in many cases, indeed, it is, but unfortunately, today we underestimate what they are doing. Indeed, Ukraine is part of a trinity of states that are most represented in those operations under the auspices of the UN, the OSCE, the EU or NATO. But if we are today talking about operations that are dangerous to a person’s life, we should really talk about their security, social security, the protection of their families, and their continued health when they complete their mission in a given country. And that's why, dear fellows, we have to take care of material security today. Because Mr. Ruslan did not answer Yuri Orotyuk's question, did he not specifically answer how much our peacemaker received? Regrettably, he receives less than those European peacekeepers who share in the same operations. And this is not a matter of the Supreme Council, this is the question that is settled by the Kabmin, and we have an appeal to you to defend and lobby the interests of the peacekeepers. And the next. The Fatherland faction against us not having the right to restrict exactly the activities of one or another contingent and to grant this right to the President. This is the right of the Supreme Council, and we will do everything we can to keep our peacekeepers working, earning money, and being.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u46	Thank you. Question completed. There is a proposal for a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities to maintain international peace and security in 2012. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin proposed that the committee prepare a decision and we will consider it in an orderly manner. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please sit down, and I will place a vote on the approval of the meeting schedule. Please sit down, prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the approval of the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for October 22-25, 2013 in addition to the timetable you have to include draft laws (registration number 1249, registration number 2692, registration number 2538, registration number 2153a and 1075). [[B in m in s a l in]] Name it? Don't you have to call it a name? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, they say you don't have to. Do you want some more law? Please, Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u47	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, first of all, I would like to address you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to send an official letter to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk to ensure the unhindered passage of the Ukrainian national deputies to the premises of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Administration tomorrow. That's the first one. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would like to ask you, Mr. Head, that tomorrow we will order the day's parliament to order the election of the mayor of Kiev and the Kyiv City Council. Let Parliament determine who is responsible for the elections and who is opposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u48	Please, Simonenko. I realized we couldn't make a deal! I don’t understand. We agree on one thing, and the question is the other!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u49	Vladimir Vasilovich, you took my time to perform. Vladimir Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u50	Here's Alexander Sergiyovich's proposal, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council of faction leaders, let's vote. I'm betting on the vote on the approval of the meeting schedule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 22-25 and on the additional inclusion of the issues I have called. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:44:23]] For 223 Against - 2, held - 5, not voted - 169. The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 174, Fatherland – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 29, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be right there. The strike faction didn't understand which laws were added, me. I call it: Registration number 1249, on the simplified procedure for the registration of small business entities. Good law? Good. Registration number 2692, amending the Ukrainian Act on the rate of export of export duties on seeds of certain oil crops (as regards the cancellation of the export duty on sunflower seeds). Good law? Very good. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what the opposition did, that's not what I'm bringing, that's what the opposition did. Next. Registration number 2538 of 14.03 on the amendment of the Law on Electricity (to improve the status of consumers and electricity suppliers). This was done by the faction of Freedom. Now it's Vitaly Call's Faction. Act No. 1075: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (for the lifting of the benefits). Next. Draft Law on Committees of the Supreme Council on Access to Media to Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u51	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, when you say that a good law, especially when the export duty is taken down for the export of sunflower seeds, do not forget that there is processing in Ukraine. For 22 years they have been exporting their home country, selling it for nothing. We need to be able to process sunflower seeds today and export oil. And then take off the export duty. And this is a betrayal of national interests, called, this law! Secondly, I propose, on behalf of the faction, that we consider an urgent draft of Law 2294a: the abolition of pension reform. And the second draft of the law requires that we consider it. Vladimir Vasilovich! Vladimir Vasilovich! Vladimir Vasilovich! Vladimir Vasilovich! Vladimir Vasilevich, give us a chance to finish then, or you'll listen to everyone in a row! And another offer. 2547 is a draft law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing matters! Well, why do we have to look at how we look at "integrate into the agenda"?Oh, my God! All factions make such proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] The leader of the Fatherland faction Arsenia Yatsenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u53	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! To conduct your brilliant interview, which you gave to the Council and the 5 Channel Channel, we are confident that tomorrow you will include two drafts of 3120 and 3003 on the election of Mayor Kyiv and the Kiev City Council. They're registered in Parliament. We have carefully heard that you are in favour of the elections and that Parliament must show its political will. I'm convinced that then the factions of the opposition will vote in favour of endorsing this unfortunate order of the day for the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u54	Arsenius Petrovich, I spoke a year ago. You've been thinking for a long time. I did this a year ago. Dear National Deputies! You tell me, faction leaders, we agree on one thing, and there are other proposals in the room. So what am I supposed to do? I'll be the first to make an offer, as agreed by all the faction leaders. And then, if we have to, we'll ask other questions. Yeah, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for your attention. On the Conciliation Council. I'm the one who told Anatoly Grizzen. On the Conciliation Council, faction leaders identified what questions I should put to the vote. So am I supposed to do it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u55	Dear National Deputies! I'll put it to a vote. Please, a minute, National Deputy Zwania.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u56	People's deputy Zhuaniya. We don't have any laws on the mayor's election committee and Kyivrada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u57	I'm betting on the agreed position of the faction leaders to approve the meeting schedule of the Supreme Council on October 22-25, 2013 and the 5 laws that I have announced, plus the two laws that I have raised from the Communist Party of Ukraine -- please vote. Please vote. [[16:53:32]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the factions that are offerings. We need to find a negotiated solution. Factions please. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u58	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we change the algorithm for addressing all the issues that each faction is trying to address and make a decision. And first of all, let's look at issues that have something to do with the social protection of our citizens. First. It is a decision on a moratorium on tariff increases on the same gas, heat, and electricity in view of the fact that these are the requirements of the Association Agreement. It's different. Decision-making and the abolition of pension reform is 2294a. And return the retirement age for women, 55 years for men, 60 years for men. It's to adopt a bill introduced by the Company, 2547, which specifically provides for the protection of all workers who are not paying wages today and that the oligarchs pay 0.5 percent for every day of unpaid wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u59	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Kaplin. He won't, he won't. The Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Shkwarliuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u60	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Vladimir Vasilovich, you're being distracted from state affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u62	Yeah. Very.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u63	The chairman of the committee forgets what he's signing. I have in my hands the conclusions of the chairman of the Zwania Committee on the approval of the bill (registration number 3120) on the election of the mayor of Kiev and the Kiev City Council. Moreover, you have also identified yourself as a coreporter of this bill, according to the conclusion you have signed. From the conclusion. This is the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, Mr. Head, 3,120 – the mayor's election and the Kyiv City Council will be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u64	Please, Zwania, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u65	Under this law, we have already reported to the Supreme Council, following this bill. The bill was put to the vote. He didn't win, he didn't vote. It's a bill on the election of city heads and Kyivrada. No other bill was considered by the committee. There are no conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u66	What about 3003, what about this law? I'm talking to Zhuvania.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u67	During this time, we have received more than 15 drafts of various formats: one in turn, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row, one in a row. All the bills were considered but one, he was still uncontested on the committee. This is Klitschka's bill. Other bills were all considered and part was rejected, part was accepted and put to the vote in the Supreme Council Hall. So today there is no debt committee in Kiev to deal with election issues. The second question is about the date. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the election date. December 22 is the only opportunity to hold the election of Mayor Kiev and, in principle, the Conciliation Council raised the issue. We have no reason to hold the Kyivrada elections today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u68	Was 3120 considered in the hall or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u69	I'm asking in Zhuaniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u70	I'll take a look at the numbers. Once again, we have about 15 bills that we had. I just can't make it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u71	People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u72	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u73	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u74	Dear voters, you've just been seeing the real situation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine all day. Obviously, there is no majority in the Party of Regions. Because there are no 226 votes. And that's why everything is voted for only by the opposition. The opposition will maintain the order of the day if the Party of Regions is not only a rhetoric of Euro-Integration Exploitation but also a Euro-Integrator in practice. And respect for the local community is a key principle of European integration. Our faction registered the Order on the election of Mayor Kyiv and the Kiev City Council. And we demand to honor the capital of the European country of Ukraine. Put the city’s head and city council in line for the day. That's what Euro-integration's going to be. Everything else is the same as President Janukovic, who seems to want to go to the European Union, but can't lay off, pardon Julia Timoshenko. This is wickedness and pharisaicism.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u75	Freedom faction, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u76	Please pass the word to Andrew Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u77	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u79	Mr. Head, I completely agree with you that arrangements should be kept. What were the arrangements? That the factions of opposition make their bids on the agenda, which will be added on Wednesday. Freedom and Strike made their proposals in writing, the "Fatherland" faction made them in the session room. So they have to be included. So there's no colosseum here, and everyone has to stick to it. So please include Project 3120, it hasn't been considered. Here's the author, Alexander Blackwolf. Even so, all of these problems since we began, the Supreme Council, have not complied with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, as Head, you have to keep an eye on this and conduct the session in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u80	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky. Jacinek was from Fatherland. Sit down. Sit down, Yatzenuk has spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u81	Please give the floor to the expert on the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u82	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! I want to ask you a question. Where is the limit of cynicism and hypocrisy of the leaders of the so - called anti - national opposition? We have believed you until now. We believed that you, as politicians, were able to make a deal and keep your word. Your behavior today in the hall is the behavior of people with a minimal, microscopic level of political culture. You don't need Euro-integration laws or a road map to solve Tymoshenko's problem. Your eyes are a substitute for a manic desire to get to power. Even by overthrowing this authority, at all costs. So I propose, Vladimir Vasilovich, to stop the debate, there is nothing to talk about, to put to the vote an order of the day with the offer of communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u84	I am. We've voted on dozens of options. I'm going to put another motion for a vote. I bet. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. I would like to vote on the approval of the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 22 and 25, 2013, which you have, and in addition to the proposals of the UK Company. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please vote. [[17:03:23]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] All the choices. We're all options. There's an offer. I am asking for the inclusion in the agenda of the election of the mayor of Kiev (3120). Please vote for the people's deputies. [[17:04:10]] For 180. It's off the question. - 180 against - 2, held - 12, not voted - 206. The decision is not taken. The factions. What should we do next? Then I'll give you one more choice. To confirm the weekly order of the day with the Freedoms proposals, with the impact proposals, with the Communists and the Party of the Regions offering what I've been sounding. Please vote. The ones I was sounding, without Kiev, of course. Without Kiev. Please vote. [[17:05:18]] For the 220. Against - 11, held - 10, not voted - 158. Decision taken. I'm gonna put Kiev back on! Let's get back to the vote and I'll put it back on! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, one minute from the factions. Sign up. Please, "Fatherland" Sobolev. He's handing over Turkey? Please, Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u85	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! There is a proposal that our citizens should like, first of all: to vote on the agenda together with the resignation of the government of Azarov. I am convinced that this will immediately generate the necessary number of votes, and we will save both the country and the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u86	It's you in the faction that's going to vote there. Who gave you that word? Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny. Please, a minute, Mohnik. Please, talk to me. It's all on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u87	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now very well see that those who block the Kyiv City Council, those who run the Berkut, who then do not allow the national deputies for the session, are now effectively blocking that the issue of election to the Kiev City Council and the election of the Kiev City Head is being put into the agenda. Vladimir Vasilovich, there's a proposal that unites all factions, that includes the proposals of "Blows" and "Freedom", "The Fathers", the Party of Regions and Communists. And then you can vote, and tomorrow you can look at the question of Kiev and the proposals that both hit and fatherland made. Otherwise, I understand that the only way you can fix the situation is now to have the button-bender vote for someone there and dial 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u88	I tell you, I have explained Arsenija Petrovich only that there is no understanding of the election, why do you put it? Gather around, let's make a deal. Vote! Put the mayor of Kiev to the vote? Is that another bet? No, it's not. I say again, this is a question that is not agreed upon by the MPs, come on, I need you to get together, let's make a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] You didn't make a deal! You are not the people's deputies! Please, Party of Regions, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u89	Thank you. The sand. Please give the floor to Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! You know, I hear what the opposition says, and I understand what they want to do. You see, they don't want to vote for any of the laws that are needed for Euro-integration. They see that we're getting close to Euro-integration and they want to tear this process apart. Next. They don't want to vote in favour of possible laws that would free Julia Timoshenko, because there are three future presidential candidates from the opposition and they don't need Julia Timoshenko to be free. And they're looking for different excuses, and Kiev wouldn't have found anything else, and they'd have found something else. So it's just sabotage and breaking up Parliament's work. So, Vladimir Vasilovich, our political power, listen, the Party of Regions is proposing to stop the fruitless work now, announce a recess and announce to everyone that the work has been broken down by an opposition that does not want to vote in favour of any law in order to free Julia Timoshenko and we are moving on the path of European integration. Shame on you for doing that!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u91	Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u92	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear voters! The Company's faction insists that the following issues be considered first. This is the draft Law (No. 2294) on the abolition of pension reform, people are waiting for it, and we need to make an immediate decision. 2547 is the introduction of 0.5 percent of a penny to the fact that those who own and own factories, factories, and do not pay workers’ wages. And that 0.5 percent of a penny for every day of non-payment should pay along with the return of wages to the workers. Third. We need to urgently decide on a moratorium on gas and electricity tariffs and to resist the requirements set out in the Association Agreement to protect our manufacturers. And the last. Export duties on sunflower seeds are by no means allowed to be introduced, and this will only lead to a decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u93	Let's listen to the Lakota proposal. One minute, please. I'll put a motion for a vote. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u94	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, this morning a 70 - year - old woman from the Ichnian region is on the phone. She was delayed from retirement for a week, and in her 40 ’ s, she had a 950 - dollar pension. What are we doing here? The whole country is looking at us. You know, millions of people who are now watching, who aren't getting their pension on time, the wages they have nothing to feed their children, they're looking at us, and I feel their skin spitting at us. They say, "Why are we here?" That we're spending the day to establish the agenda instead of looking at the laws that people need to give them salaries that will give them pensions that will give them elections in Kiev. Let's stop this comedy. People spit on the Supreme Council when they see this circus. Let's stop this circus, let's vote on the laws that people need!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u95	Thank you. A reasonable offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u96	Please pass on the word of Natalia Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u97	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u98	Deputies! Today we are faced with a situation where self - rule has ceased to be a priority. We have selective justice today, we have selective application of legislation today, we have selective self-government today. A party of regions is voting as they want: we want to vote for the elections, we want to vote, we don't vote. So we ask, we demand that we stop selective self-government, bring in project 3255 for consideration, change the date there, as David Vazievich suggested today, and not pretend there is no such project. There is a decree, a draft decree to announce the out-of-court election of the city's head and the Kiev City Council, and we demand this draft decision, a decision to make at the Council's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-22-m1.u99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have you not heard that I have just made a draft decision on the election of the city chief of Kiev, and you have not voted and supported. What else do you need? [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I put it again? Don't! So, dear friends, I'm going to make you a very reasonable offer right now. She'll calm everyone down and you'll all support it. The Motherland faction and the Vitaly Klitschka faction requested a recess. That's why I'm inviting the faction leaders to my house in the office, and we'll have you released by 10 a.m. tomorrow. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
