ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:06:11]] There are 356 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is being reviewed by Decree No. 2602 on the amendment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Vladimir Makenko. How will we consider this question? Please vote on the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:07:19]] For-163 Against 34, held – 46, not voted – 126. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee at its meeting on 17 April 2013 decided to withdraw the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Seventh Appeal" at 2602 of 21 March 2013 and to submit a revised draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the coming to the Committee of statements by the individual National Deputies of Ukraine and relevant submissions by the Deputies on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. These changes are consistent with the heads of all MP factions. At the same time, we report that the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union, Fatherschina, is withdrawing its proposal to elect a Ukrainian national deputy, Kupczak Volodymyr Romanović, a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, but is proposing to elect the National Deputy of Ukraine, German Leonid Alexanderovich, a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, by releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Science and Education. A member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, acting as deputy head of the Committee on Information and Information Technology, is proposed by the MP of the Party of the Regions. In view of the above, I would like to support the finalized draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 2602, which has been completed, taking into account the proposals made by the MPs of the Party of the Regions, the Fatherland, in particular, regarding the national deputies of Ukraine, Kupczak Volodymira Romanović, Germany, Leonida Alexanderovich and Bilogo Olexija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u3	Have a seat. Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Please, Freedom Union, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u5	Please. Leon's bequeathed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u6	Edward Leonov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree is intended to block the legitimate work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the session room after we have effectively blocked the legal work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, in particular, the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization. Because. What do we see? We see that they are trying here now, violating the principle of quota, violating the principle of proportionality, to introduce additional members of the Special Monitoring Commission on privatization of 12 additional members. We've got barely a quorum! Would you like to meet with us, distinguished regions? Go to the meetings of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization! Go to meetings of special commissions of inquiry, such as the Election Abuse Investigation Commission, and then work normally. And this decision actually paralyses the work of the commission and the committees of the Supreme Council, in which in some way the work is now in place. Therefore, honourable voters, honourable national deputies, we must do our utmost to make our work fruitful, constructive, for the benefit of all of Ukraine. At present, there is another attempt to interfere with the work of independent bodies, such as the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. The opposition now has no managerial office in most committees, including the Special Committee on Privatization, headed by a communist, the commission's secretary is a region, and the Commission's first deputy is a region. What else do you need? Why are you blocking the work of our commission? Now there's a lot of government property in particular, and that's the last thing that's happening. The Privatisation Commission is the last forpost to observe at least public access to information on privatization processes in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u7	I beg you, the faction of the Ukraine Company, Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u8	Please give the floor to Marmazov Evgenia Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u9	Marmazov please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u10	Respectable comrades! The Ukrainian Communist faction will not vote in favour of this Supreme Council ruling. We object to paragraph 7 of the first subparagraph, which proposes that the quantitative composition of our commission be increased to 29 persons. Well, first of all, this is contrary to the Special Monitoring Commission Regulation adopted in 1993 and confirmed in 1998 since the adoption of the new Constitution. To which the size of the commission should not exceed 15 persons. The Commission has now been elected 17 persons. That's a violation. Well, secondly, the specificity of our commission is that its members are still members of different committees. Therefore, if we add 12 more people here, it will be problematic to gather the Special Monitoring Commission to be a quorum. Therefore, we will not support in general. But we can support the ruling provided that paragraph 7 of the first subparagraph is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u11	Pavlovsky's Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u12	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the "Fatherland" party. Dear colleagues! This decision will disorient the work of the committees. Because a proportional principle will be violated. The Party of Regions is boldly trying to take control of the Privatization Commission, the Committee on European Integration, and other committees where it introduces additional deputies. Therefore, the decision must be further worked out. Defer, bring into line with the Rules. And I wanted to point out that after the election for the judges, the opposition would no longer vote in favour of this ruling that violates the Rules. And that's why the Fatherland faction won't vote, I emphasize again, for this decree. And we need to put it down for pre-processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u13	Everybody here? They're all here. Therefore, I ask the deputies to prepare themselves for the vote and to determine by vote whether a decision is required or not. I'll bet you a vote. Members, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote of Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.2602) on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Call for a vote on the basis and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:15:52]] For 211 78, held – 12, not voted – 78. The decision is not taken. Simonenko on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, I reiterate what Evgeny Vasilevich Marmazov said. The faction stands ready to vote in favour of the project in general, excluding the amendment of the Commission, the Special Privatization Commission. Indeed, our position is determined by the fact that we want the commission to work, to work productively and artificially created, to be practically doubled, and to violate those earlier provisions. Therefore, provided that the seventh paragraph is excluded, i.e. on the privatization commission, the faction appeals to you, and we are prepared to vote in favour of the re-voting and then to vote in favour and in general, except for this paragraph on the privatization commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u15	I'm voting on the question of the return to consideration of the Supreme Council Order on Committees. Please vote. [[16:17:33]] For 240 We're back. For – 240, against – 85, held – 3, not voted – 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 26, Freedom - 0, Company - 28, non-fractional - 4. We're back. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The Communist faction made an offer. I ask you to vote in person. So it's not personal, so we're going to vote. We'll re-vote. Where? Make specific calls. Well, yeah, what are we gonna wait for in six hours? Let's just say who voted? Let's be specific. Wait. I put to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (2602) amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention, excluding proposals for the Supervisory Commission for Privatization. We don't vote for that. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:19:51]] For 253 Against 73, held – 9, not voted – 58. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 5. I'll take the order. There is a proposal to consider a draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2013 to participate in multinational military training, this is Law 2757. I'm asking Deputy Secretary of Defense, I'm asking National Deputy Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich to report. How will we consider this question? I would like to vote in favour of this brief procedure. [[16:21:34]] For-174 Against 39, held – 58, not voted – 124. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u16	Highly worthy colleagues. The National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine discussed a draft law passed by the President of Ukraine approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other States to Ukraine in 2013 to participate in multinational military training. The project proposes to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow other States' armed forces to participate in six multinational studies this year. The project is designed in response to the need to implement the procedure established by the Ukrainian Constitution for the approval of the President’s decision to allow branches of other States to study in Ukraine. The financial costs associated with the preparation and training of Ukraine are expected to be carried out within the limits set out by the Ministry of Budget Affairs. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the military forces of other states to carry out security and defence tasks. Enhance the effectiveness of national development programmes for the armed forces of Ukraine and help strengthen the international authority of our nation. At the meeting of the Committee on April 17, there was unanimous approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow troops of other States to enter Ukraine. In view of the above, I propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended as a result of the first reading of the bill to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a need for discussion? None. Please sign up. Two for, two against. Have a seat. Fatherland, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u18	Fatherland, Tomenko. Please give Volodymyr to the defender of Ukraine, Kiev, and Troasto to Yavorovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. It is hard to imagine, of course, the honourable voters who may vote against this decision in this room. It's absolutely clear that for our army and the Ukrainian army, it's really a lesson and a lesson, and so on. What's more, there's such a threat to our army, and you understand very well that it's said on the one hand that we're going to have a professional army here, and that's why this year we're going to have only 8,000 admirers to serve in the army. You can imagine what's going to happen to our army when we know that paying off a professional army today, in fact, there's not a penny in the budget because there are church mice running around. Because of this, first of all, the Ukrainian army is shrinking, I'm not saying that it lacks weapons and so on, modern. That's the first one. The second question. We must be involved in this because what is happening today, when Putin, who is not of the same foot, claims to be celebrating the anniversary of the Black Sea Russian fleet, will be the main celebration in Sevastopol, that is, in another country’s territory, which is totally out of international position, is absolutely unacceptable. No one asked us, no one asked whether we could do it or not, nor is Putin in charge. I'm not talking about the fact that we're getting the pitiful rent for the Black Sea fleet. In fact, to this day there is no act of handing over objects, we know about how the Russian Marines captured our lighthouses and so forth. That is why such training is needed, and let us give it to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u20	Freedom Union, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u21	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u22	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u23	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Under conditions when Ukraine is not part of any military-political bloc and when the security of the country lies on each of us, a wary, prepared army is one of the engines for the preservation of our country's security. Obviously, if more than 50 percent of the Ministry of Defence had not been deliberately funded last year. Only 51 percent of the funds were funded by the Ministry of Defence and only 96 percent by the General Fund of the Ministry of Defence. Under conditions where, in general, the Ministry of Finance is providing less than a third of the funds allocated to Ukraine, international education is one of the ways and means to keep our army operational. Obviously, today’s regime is interested in destroying the Ukrainian army, destroying its viability. We can see from the actions of today’s defence minister, who had been preparing for 23 years to become minister of defense, never learned a single word in Ukrainian. How can we talk about the patriotism of the Ukrainian army when the higher command force of the Ministry of Defence does not speak Ukrainian? But we should remember, once again, that under conditions where Ukraine is a non-block country, the protection of Ukraine’s independence is a matter for every citizen. We should allocate and increase the funding of the Ministry of Defence this year, at least, to make it 2-3 percent of the gross domestic product. After all, each of our neighbors today has rearmed the army, and our army is degraded and deliberately reduced by today’s leadership. That's why we support, every army should be ready to defend its security and defense, we support it. And to the screamers in the Party of Regions, I want to say that fascism is a lie that bandits declare, in this case, bandits from the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u24	It's Vitaly Klitschka's Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u25	Volodymyr Kureny, Vitaly Klicka Faction. The Impact faction will support these proposals. Although we understand that today the issue of the situation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces depends directly on Ukraine's cooperation under the Partnership for Peace Programme, as well as other integration programmes, in fact Ukraine, with the North Atlantic structure. We also realize that an army that spends only 10 percent on teaching and rearming has no prospects. So we understand that this power and this state, which is not thinking about the state of the Armed Forces of Ukraine today, will tomorrow think about how to expel other armed forces that will be in our territory. So we also understand that today the President of Ukraine should apologize to all the Ukrainians who expected a professional army to be in Ukraine this year. Unfortunately, this will not be the case, and what will happen next, as long as there are discussions, a political crackdown. But nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this decision because we understand that today is the only way to increase the professional training of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u26	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u27	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Company's faction will not vote in favour of this proposal on the basis that the draft provides for the location and territory of Ukraine to conduct exercises of the forces of the NATO States. Ukraine is a non-block State in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. And the Company will not vote for the admission of these military units to the territory of the State of Ukraine. It's our principled position, it's consistent, and we stand on it. I also wish to draw the attention of the citizens of Ukraine, when my colleagues here state that the supposed exercises will improve the defence capacity of our country, only to some extent can we accept this. Because we can improve what we have, and if we don't have the army today, and we don't have the soldiers hungry, the military families today without the apartments and without the built-in housing, and the conditions that we need for the family, if we don't have the Air Force today, the Navy doesn't, there's no missile complex, there's no strategic weapons, so what do we do then? With a three-wayer, you're going back to conducting exercises with NATO States? I draw this attention to our citizens' understanding that in 20 years of independence, the political and political forces in power have destroyed one of our country's largest institutions of state defence. I'm reminding you that a nuclear mine was sold and surrendered. Our Ukraine's nuclear shield, when the Americans indicated that nuclear weapons had been removed from Ukraine, as were many other facts, which today are eloquently evidenced by concrete examples. Today's problem at the South Engineering Plant, the Artema factory here in the city of Kiev, the Malisheva factory, the name factory. Arsenal, the one who produced special equipment, like the Cercas Radio Tech plant. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I reiterate that the faction will not vote in favour of such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u28	The discussion is over. I ask you to prepare the deputies for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2757) approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2013 to participate in multinational military training for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:33:39]] For 342 Against - 1, holding - zero, not voting - 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 71, Vitalia Klicka - 33, Freedom - 36, Company - zero, non-fractional - 17. Honourable deputies are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (project No. 2833). Please report to the head of the committee, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:35:02]] For 175 Against it is 48. It's held up to 51. There was no vote — 129. Decision taken: Short-term. Report. 2833.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u29	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, is about a block of bills that relate to the creation of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. In view of the signing of the President’s decree on the creation of a new Ministry of Revenue and Assembly based on the merger of the State Customs Service and the State Tax Service. Since December 24, 2012, Decree 726/2012 has been signed. These bills were discussed on the committee. The first one we're currently looking at, 2833, refers to systemic changes under the Tax Code. This is about definitions in the Tax Code of the structure and locations of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, i.e. all the text of the Tax Code has been changed primarily by the name: the State Tax Service for the Ministry concerned – and all technical and legal changes have been made. Therefore, the proposal of the committee, which was supported, to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported on the basis of the bill. And for the second reading, you can clear the text and with the Science and Experimental Authority, with the Ministry of Justice and the newly created Ministry of Revenue and Congregations to issue the final edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u30	Have a seat. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for discussion. Two for, two against. Please, Party of Regions. Who's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u31	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u32	Please, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The law harmonizes with the provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code with the changes that have taken place in the system of central executive authorities. In particular, the creation of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, the definition of the legislative conditions for the proper functioning of the general system of administration of taxes and the sole social contribution. In general, I say once again that this bill expands bottlenecks in the financial system of Ukraine and contributes to the resumption of credit and financing for the real sector of the economy. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u34	The Freedom Union, please. Sabius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u35	Please give the word to Mirno Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u36	Please report to the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u37	Honorable Predestination! Deputies! We are now considering an issue that should not be considered at all. Because the creation of a monster that is legitimized only by the President's decree, not by law, is ugly and ridiculous. In virtually no country in the world has the so - called Minsdah, who is trying to create an orderly environment in Ukraine. Most forcefully contradict the questions that surprise normal people. We can't now consider funding and change to the Tax Code, because the ideology itself of creating such a ministry contradicts the essence of revenue in the budget, because today this ministry will not be doing business, not economic development, but dragging the stalemate to the neck of entrepreneurs who have survived. As a result of this, and given that only yesterday before the committee was submitted to the bill, we believe that voting on this bill is not possible. The faction will not support and call on the people on whom the decision is made to support our stand. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u38	Faction Vitalia Klitschka, Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u39	I'd like to explain to the simple voters that that's exactly what this Minzdh is. In the past, there were two courts: the first, the tax, the most corrupt organ, the second, customs, even more corrupt. These two authorities were always the subject of political trade when they sent their leaders and other factions there, and most of them formed. And in order for the simple voters to find that because of the corruption of the government around the main posts in these two bodies, there has actually been a pension reform (increasing retirement age), the Tax Code has been extended and so forth. So these two troughs are joined together into one big one, because some no longer have a scream in two. Do you understand? This is an example of the President’s taking and, in his trusted, audited people, actually carrying out administrative reform, bringing together two principles different from function, content, and vocation of organs in one. Next. We see that today, in fact, the President created two bodies: the Ministry of Finance and this Minzdh, because they no longer trust each other. And these are signs that the government today and the entire presidential vertical isn't working together, it's not working for the common electorate and it's actually ruining the economy today. These two new bodies are being held in the Supreme Council. This body is held in the Supreme Council with a gross violation of the Rules. Since the committee decided that all these bills would be considered in the first reading. And as we can see, this is a very different situation. And the last thing I'd like to say. As one of the initiators of the tax haven, I want to warn all those who will vote today that they are all responsible to the Ukrainian taxpayer for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u40	I beg of you, the people's representative of Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u41	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I strongly disagree with the political statements that there is no point in bringing this ministry together. On the contrary. I want to say from the manufacturers and importers. This is how things used to be. I.D. asked how much you paid for your taxes. And they didn’t care how much you paid the customs congregations. And today, the taxpayer comes in and says, I paid for excise duty, VAT, customs, income tax and value added tax. And that makes up so much. And tax, by combining these taxes, this is considered to be a single tax charge. Therefore, for taxpayers and for producers and entrepreneurs, this is better. And I think that's the right decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u42	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2833) to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:44:18]] For 234 Against 111, held – 5, not voted – 55. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 191, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 13. The draft Law (Registration No. 2834) on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine is under consideration in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. I'm asking you to report to Hometic Vitaly Yuriovich. How will we view it? Please vote, the proposal is a reduced procedure. Please vote. Who's voting again? Who? [[16:45:32]] For 197
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u43	I'm asking the Communists to vote in person. They're standing there, they say. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u44	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, is talking about a second bill relating to reform, administrative reform in part of two branches - the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Bill 2834 introduces complex changes to the Ukrainian Customs Code, where it refers again to the replacement of existing terms, such as the "central executive authority that ensures the implementation of State policy in the field of State customs" and the "central executive authority that ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of finance" by the sole term "central executive authority that ensures the formation and implementation of public policy in the customs and tax matters". It also changes the terms "mining organs" to terms "received organs" and "congregations." In addition, it is proposed that the Customs Code should be amended to determine the procedures for the conduct of services in the income and congregation bodies, the status of officials of those bodies, the principles of social and legal protection for the purpose of uniting these standards for officials of the established Ministry of Income and Assembly. Within existing standards for tax and customs officials. The committee, after considering the bill, also recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u45	Thank you, sit down. Do you want to talk about it? None. I bet on the vote, attention, national MPs! I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2834) amending the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the implementation of administrative reform for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:48:17]] For 232 Decision taken. 232, vs. 105, held – 10, not voted – 54. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 14. The draft Law (Registration No. 2835) on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with administrative reform is being introduced. Please report to the head of the committee, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. How will we consider the question? Please vote in favour of a reduced procedure. [[16:49:31]] For-195 Against 36, held 51, did not vote 121. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u46	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, this bill amends the rest of the legislative acts, namely: the 118 legislative acts of Ukraine again, where the names of those already mentioned in the previous bills that we have amended to the Tax and Customs Codes are changed. Including the bill, amendments are proposed to the Ukrainian Congregation Act and the payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance. This is already the case, let us say, more money in connection with the administration of the single tax, the only social contribution to the authorities of the Ministry of Revenue and the Ukrainian congregations. Everything else stays the same. The committee also recommends the adoption of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u47	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for two, two for the other. Please, Vitaly Klitschka faction, Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Rosenk Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u49	Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u50	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, I don't appeal to the faction of the regions and the faction of Communists right now, I want to address the citizens of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine, right now, under such a sauce, as if the integration of tax and tax authorities is actually a corruption plot and crime. Today, the whole system of the U.S. Pension Fund and all social insurance funds is being destroyed. Now, if you citizens of Ukraine, you need to know, if you don't get your pension in time or not in full measure, you have to owe it to the Party of Regions and its allies. Because if insurance funds were previously directed directly to the Pension Fund, from the Pension Fund to our pensioners, from now on all insurance and tax payers would go into the pockets of the so - called Ministry of Taxation and Congregations. And it's going to decide whether to pay pensions, whether it's possible to build another road on Concha-Zap or on Meigree. The Ministry itself will decide whether to pay for unemployment assistance or to buy a new car for officials, which is what the vote is today. 200 billion pension funds will be stolen through the new Ministry of Income and Congregations. And the full responsibility will be borne by the political forces that are voting for it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u51	Freedom Union, Martinks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u53	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u54	Dear Head, honourable deputies, at yesterday’s meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, contrary to the current Rules, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, a number of procedural issues have been violated. The Committee has today received a joint statement from members who did not consider this law yesterday because they did not have the opportunity to consider it. The law was filed 10 minutes before the committee’s meeting, a 50 - page law, a comparative table written on 117 pages. Not in such a short time and a time to study such a complex and necessary law as you consider it to be. Today this law has so many rights and possibilities for this ministry that it will be a penal body, that it will be a fiscal body that will destroy you, including the great businessmen, the oligarchs. And you're going to get a lot of benefits from it, and we're hoping that you'll still suffer from it in the first place. I would like to address today your allies, the communists who have given the guarantee that they have given the word to the Ukrainian people, that they will never vote with the Party of the Regions until the pension reform is lifted. Retirement reform has not been cancelled today, and no changes have been made to the pension law. My colleague just said 230 billion is going to go nowhere to be managed. And you have a conscience today, you have the opportunity to say that you can't find 7 billion to change pension reform. That's what they told you yesterday, and they're talking again today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u55	Party of regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u56	I beg you to give Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u57	Give it to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! It's true that social insurance funds have a lot of problems. That we need to strengthen and that our parliamentary control over the activities of these funds is also true. The fact that more transparency and publicity are needed there is the truth. That public control of financial flows is completely neglected is also true. But, respectable colleagues, insurance premiums are not incomes or assemblies, it's not alcohol or ecology excises, it's human deferred wages, it's my salary and it's the salary that my employer gave me in case of an insurance accident, it's kind of a form of wage reserve that provides for material pay and social services in case of an insurance accident. We're on the Social Policy Committee discussing this issue, and we've made a warning that it's not going to happen now, like paying off VAT, so that now hospital bills don't pay people off with a discount, because what goes into the general budget is that they're missing. There are self-governing organizations, there are four foundations. And please tell me what we're going to do, we're definitely going to have to accept a mandatory national health insurance and we're going to create a social-medical insurance fund, and these costs are going to go there as well. And I'll tell you what the problem is. A huge sum of 264 billion. Imagine that figure going into the general budget. Clearly, there will be no budget deficit, but payments will also become problematic. So I would suggest, for example, if I vote for this bill, it's only on the first reading that's exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u59	Discussion. I'm asking the faction of the Ukrainian Company, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u60	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I want to reassure our neo-Nazis, neo-fascists, don't let them worry about the image of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and we'll deal with our own voters. Now, let's talk about the problems that are being discussed. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is now in favour of separate bills relating to the creation of a new ministry, voting because they are, some of them are technical and technological. But now I want to support two of my colleagues on the Committee -- Rosenka and Suhogo, which concerns Bill No. 2799. The point is that the newly created ministry is trying to pass on the function of administration of a single social contribution. It's absolutely inappropriate, because we have to understand that the Ministry is being created to fill the state budget. The nature of the insurance premiums, the nature of the insurance costs, is quite different. Perhaps someone forgot that a few years ago a pitiful pension in Ukraine was paid late in 6-8 months and even divided by 60 percent and 40 percent. So I don't want this to happen again, and so when it comes to adopting Bill 2799, I hope my faction colleagues hear me, and we're not voting for this bill because it's about extremely risky things. The point is that the only social contribution is going to be mixed up with other money, with incomes and congregations that they don't appear at all. So once again, I urge my colleagues to be very careful about adopting this package of documents because it is 118 laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u61	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2835) amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the implementation of administrative reform for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:00:26]] For 233 Decision taken. Against 103, holding – 5, not voting – 60. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 15. The draft Law, registration number 2,800, on amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and congregation bodies is being introduced. Reported by the national deputy head of the committee, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. How will we view it? Anyone who has a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:01:33]] For 193 Against 42, held – 54, not voted – 114. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, these are the latest changes on the same subject, following the creation of the Ministry of Income and Congregations. This bill deals with amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code. In fact, the same changes that change the names of "mining organs" and "tax authorities" to words and terms of "income and assembly bodies." The only, again, money is the same as in the previous bill of amendments to legislative acts, which is the only contribution to the general government social insurance. In this case, it goes on to say that the congregation is included in the corresponding open treasury bills and in accordance with the regulations and legislative acts laid down in previous bills, that is, the Ministry of Income and Assembly directly, as the administration of the social contribution will be carried out by the relevant ministry. This bill has been discussed on the budget committee, so I don't know what position the committee has in order to report to the head of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u63	The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugene Borisovich Geller, will report. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u64	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Questions at its meeting considered a bill amending the Budget Code in connection with the creation of an income and congregation body, number 2,800. The bill proposes to bring its provisions into line with changes in the system of central executive bodies related to the establishment of the Ministry of Income and Assembly through the reorganization of the tax and customs services and the establishment of a single administrative contribution to the general government social insurance. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that a balanced decision requires an expert opinion from the government. The Ministry of Finance supports this bill. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the decision was made to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2,800 to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u65	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Freedom Union, Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Michalchino Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u67	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u68	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The faction cannot support this bill, because it artificially centralizes the various cash flows, and thus the control of government finances is concentrated in the hands of one financial and industrial group, which today was to be controlled by only a few ministries, and it still needs to control essentially the second state budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Pension Fund. In this context, even in view of the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it should be said that this bill requires as a minimum additional study, as it provides for the opening of non-budgetary accounts to include a single contribution to the general government insurance, because this payment will not be included in the budget and is actually raised in the air. So the faction, taking a principled position on the subject of the so-called administrative reform, considers this to be an artificial, completely unmotivated centralisation of state finances, which actually brings the entire state treasury under the control of one financial and industrial group, by the way, represented in this wing of the session hall. Thus, we urge other factions not to support the bill or vote for it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u69	Party of regions, National Deputy Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u70	Volodymyr Evening. Please give my word to my colleague Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! Let's ask ourselves if there is. whether there are any problems in society today with the administration of a single social contribution. None. Does the Pension Fund handle the task of administration, the fragmentation of a single social contribution? None. It's okay. Let's think about how in this room long, stormy, after debates, with a study of foreign experience, implementing the signed with Yushchenk. Then we signed the Universal (art. 19) we introduced this law on the introduction of a single social contribution, because it made it much easier for both administration and the lives of business subjects. What's going on all of a sudden? Not the budget accounts that will be opened in the Treasury. You, who has a county, who knows life, do you know what's going on? What is Treasury? Do you know where the money is? Whose money is there, or can they be used? So why are we creating a problem in an empty social security system? There are a lot of questions that we simply have to ask the drafters of this bill. Ask the government to get answers. Therefore, it cannot be voted for in general. I propose to support this bill in the first reading so that we can work on it on our committee and budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u73	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u74	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I'm very pleased, frankly, when there's a really professional conversation without politics and representatives today, as you see all the factions -- and the Party of Regions, and the UDA, and the Communist Party of Ukraine, and the Freedoms -- today, it's clear that the system offered today by the Ministry of Income and Assembly on acceptance and administration of pensions is unacceptable, it's destroying the entire social insurance system. You see, honourable national MPs, especially majorists, which means to raise pension funds in treasury accounts. You will never get your pensions there. Today, doctors, teachers, budget institutions, ask the heads of these institutions what kind of fight they are fighting today from the treasury to beat the salaries of their employees. And you want the pension money to go on like this? So what are you leading the country to? I'd like to speak to Mr. Hometics' head of committee right now. He's telling the truth. He tells us that the administration of the only social contribution has been paid to the Ministry of Income and Assembly. I'm sorry, that's not true. Today is Ukraine's Single Social Contribution Act, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where it is written in black and white that the only social contribution is administered by the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund and only him. And so these manipulations that let's transfer these funds to the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations, that's frankly not true. I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u75	The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2800) amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income institutions and congregations for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please cancel the vote. The Committee on Budgets made a proposal on the basis of the whole as well. That's why I brought it in. So let's define it as a base, and then we'll see. I am voting on the draft Law 2800 on amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income institutions and congregations for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:12:12]] For 242 Against 111, held – 9, not voted – 46. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 197, Fatherland, Vitalia Klitschka block, Freedom - Zero, Ukraine Company - 30, non-fractional - 15. He's sitting in Shufrich, go meet him. Now, Shufrich, they want to meet you. Well, I don't know, they want to meet you. Come here. [[Applause]] A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for financial bills (registration No. 2845) is under consideration. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenka Valerija Pavlovich. Please. Is Omelchenko Valeriy Pavlovich a reporter? How will we view it? Short-term procedure? Please vote. [[17:14:05]] For-189 Against 41, held – 56, not a vote – 124. A summary decision has been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u76	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, is proposing to define bank and treasury financial bills, establish the form of their issuance, order of issuance, circulation, and repayment. The need for its adoption is based primarily on the fact that, in order to fully function such bills, which have been introduced by Ukraine's laws to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on improving tax and assembly administration and amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the further improvement of tax and assembly administration, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to Ukraine's Tax and Budgetary Codes, Ukraine's Bills of Exchange in Ukraine, the Securities and Stock Market Act, the State Budget for 2013. In addition, I would like to pause separately on the bill’s bill form of promissory notes, the form of electronic documents. The extensive use of electronic documents has led many countries to make appropriate changes in recent years to legislation that have allowed financial instruments to be released in electronic form. For example, cash requirements, Japan 2007, bills, South Korea 2004, China 2009, electronic warehouse receipts, USA. In Ukraine, an active process of transferring tax reporting into electronic documents is being introduced. At the beginning of the second quarter of the current year, 280,000 electronic digital signature certificates were issued. Over 297,000 customers. Thus, sufficient conditions have been created for the introduction of financial instruments in the form of electronic documents. The implementation of this bill does not require additional public budget and local budgets. I think that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u78	will be positive in the expenditure of the State budget, namely: it will contribute to the effective provision of the conditions for the application of financial notes for the processing of payments. Taxes on value added and on a voluntary basis, State compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the project as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u79	All of it? Have a seat. Thank you. The report is chaired by the Committee on Finance and Banking, Alexander Mikolayovich Rižankov. Two minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u80	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the draft law. The bill provides for the introduction of regulations on financial bills in accordance with the national documents on these issues, which are signed by Ukraine, first and foremost. Agreeing with a unified bill on promissory notes and favourable Geneva conventions. Thus, the main objective of the project can be to bring these into an extremely simple and understandable way – the possibility of having financial notes in the form of an electronic document. So this bill improves the regulation of the legal category of financial bills from the point of view of regulating the sphere of securities. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance for this bill are all positive. All comments to the bill are not critical and do not change the concept of the bill. Therefore, they can be counted when preparing for second reading. Thus, the committee decided to recommend and adopt the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u81	Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u83	Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Sabius, the "Freedom" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Kydi Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u85	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u86	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, I want to point out how hasty this bill is being adopted: yesterday, registered in the Supreme Council, in the morning, it's being submitted to the agenda, it's being discussed at the committee meeting, and now, after lunch, this bill is being adopted. It cannot be approved for the following reasons. First, this law does not meet the requirements of article 92, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution, according to which the laws of Ukraine only establish the order of release and circulation of state securities, their types and types, and not the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Secondly, according to article 41, paragraph 3, which complements the bill circulation law in Ukraine, the financial treasury bill forms the debt owed to the State budget of Ukraine for the payment of the added value tax, not any debt, as provided for in the draft. The fact is that the excessive use of such promissory notes may lead to the undercompliance established in article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code with the principle of balance in the State budget of Ukraine, by which the authority for the implementation of the budget is intended to correspond to the amount of budget revenue for the relevant budget period. Third. According to paragraph 4 of the new edition of article 8 and article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets, it is envisaged that the rightfulness of non-issued securities should be exercised by participating or directly trading in securities. However, the proposed changes do not take into account the fact that the circulation of certain non-issued securities, defined by individual laws and does not provide for participation by securities. For this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u87	The Fatherland faction, the Briginian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u88	Brigitte, Fatherland, Oblon. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u89	Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, let's find out what we're being asked to vote on right now, let's start with the main one. What tax debt on the added value of the state for today? By various estimates, up to 60 billion dollars. This is after the adoption of the genius Tax Code, which was promised that the VAT return on added value would take place automatically. What happens next? Let's figure out, if you enter this form of business accounting, which is first of all a metallurgical complex, a chemical complex, an agro-industrial complex, those enterprises that are actually forced to depend on the value added tax in some way. And his return is practically on all the indicators, including salary, the company's circulation costs. We're in a situation where, voluntarily, you know, they're going to force businesses, because they're not going to be reimbursed for the value added tax, they're going to get it. Money, bills that will continue to be effectively extinguished by authorized financial institutions. Who's going to win? Will entrepreneurs benefit from this? No doubt not. They're going to have to sell these bills with a discount, and this discount is going to be 70 percent, or 80 percent. Is this going to win the budget? No doubt he won't, he'll lose. This is why the government of Azarov cannot meet its key financial obligations, the government of Azarov has signed off on its own illiteracy when, in fact, for today’s return to VAT, it has become an element that is not controlled at all by today’s Ministry of Finance or the future Ministry of Revenue and Congregations. That's why our faction suggests, for the first time, not to adopt this law as a whole. We have every point of reference. The other one. You can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u91	Party of regions, Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u92	Please give a word to my lovely neighbor, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u93	I beg your pardon, Supper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The bill is prepared to address the issue of the legislative settlement of the financial billing system in a comprehensive manner. Of course, there were observations. It is stated that a financial treasury bill is issued in a documentary form or form of an electronic document and that the order of the signature of a bill in the form of an electronic document is determined. In doing so, it is suggested that the issuance of financial treasury bills by Ukraine is part of the budgetary process and is not subject to regulation by the National Commission. The Tax Code proposes that, as of 1 January 2014, the authorities responsible for the treasury service of budgetary resources should be established on the basis of the findings of the relevant authorities of the State Tax Service and the amounts of the added value tax. But it's got to be accepted because we're moving forward and the government is working fine today and we don't have a second path and we won't. What I'm saying is that our faction of the Party of Regions will support this bill. And I want to calm my colleagues from other factions: don't worry, everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u95	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Rosenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u96	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u97	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u98	It's just that Ukrainian voters need to know that as of today, the official money of the Party of Regions is going to be put into circulation by the so-called promissory notes, which will be a way of enriching specifically the party's main players and its masters. A new completely corrupt scheme is being built when businesses where simple people work, where they still get some wage, this low-income salary, are actually going to be laundering money. Those enterprises that are not suitable for the Party of Regions and Communists will be on their knees. We already have examples where the authorities are handing out, or some kind of paper, or cards that are supposed to have, like, "Vine a thousand," but there's not a thousand there, and there's only cards, and there's just some paper. And the second. I'd like to address you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Our deputy, Maria Ionova, came to you and asked that you be more alert to make sure that a truly personal vote is carried out in the hall. Because the majority today vote and implement these infamous decisions entirely because of not personal voting. This MP wanted to preserve your authority, including because millions of Ukrainians look at you as the speaker, and you promised them at one of the meetings that you would personally be the guarantor of a personal vote. What's going on? You've got a bunch of photos on your desk right now, showing how the majority vote for these laws, which confirms that they don't have any majority, that they're fictional and you're dazzling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u99	How do you know I was approached and told by a deputy? How do you know? She came up to me and said, "I want to see Sufrich." I'm saying Shufrich is sitting there, getting to know each other. Well, how do you know? The discussion was over. I'll bet you a vote. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. I am voting on draft Law 2845 – amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for financial bills for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:29:04]] For 239. Against 108, held – 11, not voted – 49. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 195, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 30, non-fractional – 14. Suggestions go: put them all together. Shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Decision taken. Please, two factions have requested a recess. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! Listen! So I'm giving Arsenia Yatzenyuk three minutes of performance and we're going to keep working. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u100	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament! You were talking about some MP sitting here. Not yet, but the odds will be, I hope. [[Applause]] Mr. Chairman, we are asking you to resume the normal work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and so that Parliament will not be blocked again. We have the video fixation of a non-personal vote. And so, Mr. Head, we ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, to re-vote two bills, one for which we voted in full as opposition, it was the Euro-Integration Bill 2802. He voted at 11 o'clock for 13 minutes. The Median MP voted for himself and for another MP. We ask for a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet! Calm down! The next bill, Bill 0011, is the ratification of the SND Agreement. The same story, the same Medici MP, voted in favour of another MP, the Knave’s deputy is appointed. The third is about the Communist Party. The Carobitechuk, who sits on the spot of Spirina’s deputy, votes for himself and the deputy Spirina. Please do the same for video fixation. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the next MP, your honors, you sit down, mate, don't get nervous, you'll be fine. Deputy Baiduk for the Parupka MP, so is the video fixation. Mr. Head, please put the vote to the vote. What you've just come from the buffet is good, all you have to do is sit and vote when Parliament works, if you don't want Parliament blocked. Two bills: bill on. 2802 and Bill 11. 0011 we ask that we put the House to a vote so that Parliament can work legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all here to vote. We passed a law with you to re-vote, we passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, please, I'm asking you to sign up for factions per minute. Please sign up. Let's vote where we need to vote. Please, Paribai.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u102	A boy named Andrew, the "Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the principle of the work of this Supreme Council of Ukraine: personal voting. For decades, this Supreme Council has been cursed when MPs voted on foreign cards, mostly from the Party of the Regions. That's how they adopted the Kharkiv Accords, so they adopted the pension reform. Now we see that they can't accept any bill when the vote goes personal. So the return to voting with someone else’s cards begins again. Mr. Head, please listen to me. If we don't stop it now, if we don't stop it today and now, in the next plenary weeks, this epidemic in the Party of Regions and the Communists will spread and spread. So this is our requirement: to vote on these bills. One of them is not at risk at all because the opposition voted for him. And to stop, to stop the chassle that devours the Supreme Council of Ukraine: voting with foreign cards. We demand a vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u103	Please, the Ukraine Company, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you're right, but half. And so, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I am addressing you as presiding officer, those who are addressing you in violation of article 47 of the Rules. For everyone, including the chairman, I will read out the final sentence of those changes that we adopted in February of this year. "The chairman of the plenary shall establish the presence of the relevant national deputy in the meeting room of the Supreme Council, and shall, in the absence of it, order the Counting Commission to delete the card of such a national deputy and to transmit it to the chairman of the plenary, and shall conduct a re-vote on the motion put to the last vote." What was the final offer? It's not 11:00, it's 5:30. That's one thing. The other one. Please check the presence of those deputies who were called. If they're not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u105	Next. Freedom Union, Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u106	Please pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u107	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u108	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head! By commenting on what Martinyuk had just said, we were paying attention to you when we were voting with someone else’s cards at 11 o’clock. I want to remind you that when we were paying attention to you, you said you had no evidence. Here's the evidence. So we now have to vote again for this issue because the vote was foreign cards and the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party. This will be compliance with the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Otherwise, opposition factions will respond appropriately to your non-reaction with respect to compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u109	I can't hear anything. That's why I can't react. Chechatov, Party of Regions. Maybe I'll hear Chechchev right now. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u110	Suffrish Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u111	I'd like to pass the suffrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Well, the envy of our opposition colleagues is clear that despite all the accusations that we will not vote in favour of the European integration laws, we voted in favour of them. But, reverend, you don't have to sleep! The vote took place during the morning session. And how do we know how these pictures came to be? [[B in m in s a l in]] And today, let's stick to the law. If this were the last vote (and thank Adam Ivanovich for his position), you would certainly be right. And now we need to get these documents to the regulatory committee, let them determine who was missing, who was behind this vote, and maybe bring some kind of conditional responsibility there. And now the vote has taken place, you've passed this vote, and now you don't have to be confused by yourself or anyone else. That's why I'm asking you to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u113	I'm asking you, the Vitaly Caller faction, the Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u114	Dear National Deputies! Volodymyr Kurenay, Faction Impact. Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u116	Colleagues, I want to speak to the faction leaders. The chairman, as you recall, we all made decisions together in your office on personal voting, and we changed the Rules. And I'm confident that if there's video evidence, we need to put these questions to a vote, and this, as you said, is Volodymyr Vasilovich, in order for the deputies to raise discipline, if there are no MPs, they should come to a meeting, vote for themselves, if there is not, handing over the card to you, the chairman, for the neighbor, it's impossible to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u117	The last speaker. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u118	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! From the non-faulty. In February of this year, the Supreme Council took a big step, and for the first time in 25 years, we decided that we were taking a step away from buttoning. We've shown society that we can do this. And it's not just the context of the Ukrainian people that we're getting closer to the law. But that is also proof that in our minds there is a step towards Europe. And we think, and we do it differently. Today, there are over 400 national deputies in the hall. What are we arguing about? Put these laws to the vote. We will calmly vote them out and prove to the Ukrainian people that we are not buttoned up, but people who are responsible for their actions and words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m1.u119	Deputies! Let the facts that Arsenija Petrovich has presented, let the committee consider and report to us at 10 a.m. in the morning. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I read Martinyuk's law, as it says in the law, how to be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll figure it out and continue our work.
