ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please calm down, sit down and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:59]] There are 368 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian government is present at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome him. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] The Prime Minister will, at the end of the meeting, report to the session room when we consider the matter. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Association "Kyrovgradšina". The head of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "Kirovogradščina" was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović. Next announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the seventh interfractional parliamentary association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine "For a sober future!".. The head of the interfractional MPs' union for a sober future! elected National Deputy of Ukraine, Bachevo Tetjana Dmitrovna. Dear National Deputies! My personal announcement was that yesterday I had a misunderstanding with a national MP from the Ion's Maria Mikolayevna faction. That's why I want Maria Mikolayevna, I want to apologize to you. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I'd like to report on the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers in the "hour of questions to the government." Organisation Chairman-in-Chief Prime Minister Sergei Hennadyevich Arbusov; Vice-Prime Minister for Education Boyko Jury Anatolievich; Vice-Prime Minister for Education Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich; Vice-Prime Minister for Education Grishenko Kostin Ivanovich; Minister for Agriculture Policy Nikola Volodimir Jury, Reporter; Minister of Internal Affairs Zachary; First Deputy Minister for Revenue and Assembly Klimenko Alexander Viktorovich; Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Oleg Albertovich Proscorak; Prime Minister for Economic Development and Trade Games Nikolaiovich Prasolov; Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, No. of Science and Natural Resources Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a "hour of questions to the Government" is being held today from 10 a.m. Representatives of the deputy factions made an offer during the "hour asked to the government" to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the state of affairs in the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. The MP factions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the political party, Vitalia Klicka, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Replying to questions from the MP's friction on a specific subject will be Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine Mikola Volodymyrovich Jurynuk. The next order is proposed for an hour of questions to the government. To speak and answer the government's questions from the MP factions, take up to 30 minutes. The rest of the time is spent answering questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is suggested that one minute at a time each oral question and two minutes at a time be answered. I note that the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland has not submitted written questions, but according to article 230, part 3, of the Rules has a guaranteed right to one oral or one written question to the government. So when we look at the rules, we go to the government. Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine Mikola Volodymyrovich Jury is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and members of the government! Parliamentary factions have raised many questions about the development of the agricultural sector. Of course, it makes sense. I will try to answer them as much as possible in my report so that more time is left for oral questions. In recent years, the sector has demonstrated stable APC rates. The APC is, in fact, a budgetaryly shaping sector of the economy of the state. Taxes and congregations to the consolidated budget from industry last year accounted for 42.1 billion dollars, nearly 5 percent more than the previous year. During 2010 - 2012, the increase in gross agricultural production was 12.7 percent, and the food industry was 4 percent. And already in the first quarter of 2013, we have an increase in the agricultural production index by 5.8 percent, which is more than in the same period last year. And in agriculture we have an increase of 10.5 percent. The export potential of the industry is increasing, and in 2012 agro-industrial exports amounted to $18.2 billion, 40 percent more than the previous year. The external trade surplus is positive in the agar sector and has reached $10.5 billion. This positive trend continues this year. In the first quarter, foreign trade increased by 15 per cent and exports increased by 11 per cent, and exports expanded significantly, as well as the new markets of Japan, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Bangladesh and others. During these years, the average annual production of grains amounted to 47 million tons. I'll remind you that in 2011, the highest crop production in the history of agroculture was produced by grain and grain crops. He made 56.7 million tons. In 2012 Despite the impact of negative weather conditions, the holdings of all categories received 46.2 million tons of grain, which became the third indicator in the days of Independence. There has also been stable production of oil, technical, vegetable-bastane, fruit-based crops and potatoes over the last few years. And the main thing is that this is happening not by increasing areas, but by increasing production, by improving technology and technology. Today, agrarian market infrastructure is being developed. A network of agricultural wholesale markets with modern infrastructure and a logistics platform is gradually being developed throughout the country, where farmers can sell their products personally or at the request of a cashier’s cooperative. Vegetable-, potato- and fructose shelters are also actively being built. The development of agrarian market infrastructure has already ensured a steady development of the internal market, relative to a stable price situation. And the main thing is that we've managed to minimize fluctuations, seasonal fluctuations, primarily on vegetables and fruits. In addition, the practice of food fairs in all regions of Ukraine has been introduced to provide quality, affordable domestic products. This is a method that has long been forgotten, but for the third year in a row, we have resumed this practice. And since the beginning of this year, we have already held 17,000 food fairs. They are traditionally attended by farmers, cooperatives, private farmers, and farmers. This year, 152 thousand tons of agricultural production was made available to them for a sum of one and a half billion dollars. The largest amount of food and travel fairs was organized in Kiev. Many of the issues that have come from the factions relate to crop formation this year and the impact of abnormal weather conditions on spring and field work. With your permission, I grouped these questions because they were repeated by factions. Indeed, difficult weather conditions caused some concern and required the government to take additional organizational and technological measures that had been taken. The main problems associated with this late spring are the delay of almost three weeks of early winter vegetation; the increase in the impact of osmamine on fungal diseases; and the delay with the calendar dates of early crop sowing in central, northern, and western regions. Today, 95.5 percent of the area of the winter is in good and satisfactory condition according to the region’s operational data. If we're going to have to cross the osmium, it's only 500 thousand hectares. For comparison, last year we crossed about 2 million acres [2 million ha] in winter. Today, they are weakened by adverse weather conditions. First of all, it feeds. To do this, farmers have all the resources they need. And I'm pointing out that it's probably one of the first indicators. Years when farmers managed to store more than one and a half million tons of nutrients, mineral fertilizers at the start of spring-field feeding. That's 20 percent more than in previous years. Reinforcement is completed in nine regions and in Crimea. Of course, a very important question is physical sanitation for pests and weeds. Agricultural producers are practically fully protected. Seeds of bright grains, grain crops, now make up 105 percent of what is needed. And the seed fund, the state seed fund in its entirety, has a seed reserve of 25,000 tons. In the areas of manufacturing graphs, the two-variable work of technology, the material and technical resources of agriculture are now provided. The fuel requirement is 100 percent. I'd like to compare that fuel prices dropped by 1.5 percent this year compared to last year, gasoline prices by 6 percent. Generally, sown today is held in almost all regions of Ukraine. 8 crop areas have been completed. The seedlings of early grain and grain crops were over two million acres [2 million ha] or 75 percent of the forecast for seedlings of early crops. The state has actively engaged in financial assistance to agrarians through the forward purchasing mechanism of the agrarian fund and the wire-grain corporation. Today, an agrarian fund has sent more than a billion dollars to farmers by means of a contract for the forward supply of food wheat. It continues to finance crops through the forward purchasing mechanism and the State Food Grain Corporation. Today, 310 tons of grain has been made and over 150 million dollars have been sent to farmers. This work is ongoing. And by the end of the spring, the food grain corporation is financing 4 billion dollars of agriculture. In this way, the food grain corporation also fulfils its obligations under the memorandum of understanding on cooperation and on the implementation of the agricultural priorities. And by the way, this, this was the question of impact. Questions were also raised about the animal industry. Of course, we understand clearly how important animals are to the agricultural sector of our country, and above all to preserve the social and cultural heritage of our country, that is, the Ukrainian peasant. Last year, for the first time in years of independence, the decline in cattle was halted and a certain, small, sadly large, growth took place. By the beginning of the year, five million cattle were headquartered in all categories of farms. In the population economy, 3 million 387 thousand heads; cows 2 million 560 thousand, including the population of almost 2 million heads. That's 4 percent more than the same period of the previous year. Of course, this percentage doesn't suit us. Of course, we're looking for a form, an economic stimulus model for animal development. And I am convinced that we will find him. Since June of last year, payment of a special budget grant has been initiated for the maintenance and preservation of the young cattle. The grant per year is a thousand dollars. In 2012, some 340,000 villagers received such assistance for the preservation of their 509,000 heads of cattle. Why are we doing this? For us today, it is important that we create a culture of family farms in our own agriculture. There is no other way to preserve the Ukrainian village today. This year, the government continued to pay such support and introduced another direction, namely, subsidies to individuals and farmers for farmed and sold by large cattle and pigs. So we keep going. It's been stifled by the maintenance of the young, and the next step, if the owner gave the cattle over 330 kilograms, he gets 2 and a half bracelets if he gave the standard pigs -- 1 bracelet 50 -- up to 120 kilograms, and up to 150 kilograms -- is a bracelet. We're confident and we hope that this stimulus will allow us to develop, I repeat, family farms. In addition, the government is working to introduce state support for sheep, meat, organic milk, animal selection, and the purchase of calves into the population. For us, it is important, especially for the southern regions and Western regions, that it is the development and maintenance of the sheep, the maintenance of the goats. And we understand that. And this year, for the first time, we've launched a support program, a state support for these directions. Tuesday, for the first time in many years, milk production increased by 2.7 percent. Of course, we are producing 11.5 million tons of milk today. But the question is, we keep asking the question of price. Why does the question of price arise? Because in the population, it's not the milk value that meets the requirements of processing companies today, and it's important. Today, it's important for us to do it in a way that will raise the value of milk and increase the implementation of milk from the population to the processing. At the same time, for the next two years, we are planning to implement large-scale national investment projects in animal creation within the framework of the State Economic Revitalization Programme 2013-2014. They envision the construction and reconstruction of 153 animal complexes in two years. This will increase the production of milk by 3.5 percent, by 4.5 percent, to kill cattle and birds, and create more than 5,000 jobs. The Freedom faction's questions about the possible reform of fixed agricultural taxes and the review of benefits and VAT payments, the company's income tax. I assure you that the position of the Minagropolitics on this issue is quite clear. I would like to point out that direct state support for agriculture is in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation and the EU Council Directive on a common system of value added tax, which is clearly stated in the World Trade Organisation protocol. And any steps and attempts to abolish this tax will undermine our ability to have support on the green basket in the future. And we have to be balanced about it. These regimes exist as a complement to direct budget support. Such policies provide investment attractiveness for both domestic and foreign investors. The increase in gross domestic product in the APC sectors increases the competitiveness of production in the world’s markets. We believe that any tax changes need to be made with detailed, economically sound calculations in order to identify all possible consequences both positive and negative. For its part, the Minagropolitics support repeated proposals from professional associations and propose a moratorium on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on a special tax regime, a value added tax. During the operation, adhering to the general system of taxation by adding value from 1 January 2018 to the applicable law, i.e. the Tax Code, will be carried out systematically. We know that this benefit is foreseen for 2018. The corresponding letters are already addressed to all interested authorities of the executive branch. The next question is about the State's policy of developing small and medium-sized agrobusiness in rural areas and the development of agriculture. In Ukraine, small - and large - scale farms complement each other. Today we have a balance of agricultural production, where large-scale enterprises, medium-sized and small-scale enterprises, and mono-persons are active. And you know, each one has its own niche, each one has its own function. Exhaustive businesses today give us the opportunity to be present not only quantitatively but also qualitatively and competitively in external markets. Today's small-scale producer, the farmer is providing us with 100% food security in the middle of the country. And it's those traditions of our Ukrainian consumer that we're used to. Because we realize that every nation has its own traditions in eating. More than 50 percent of agriculture’s gross production is produced by small-scale producers, small-scale farmers, and the population. Therefore, the support of a small member of the government today is one of the top priorities. Because it's the preservation of the rural way of life, our settlement network, the maintenance of the rural level of employment. Two years ago, at the direction of the President of Ukraine, the Minagropolitics began to reform agrarian politics, an important component of which was the Red Village Rural Development Project. Its introduction creates conditions to stimulate rural economic, social-oriented processes. The main objective of this initiative is to increase the income and well - being of rural people through the development of agricultural cooperation. Today, nearly 41,000 farms, over a thousand production cooperatives, and over 800 manufacturing cooperatives have been created. We did a social survey among rural and rural heads. The survey confirmed that 85 percent of rural, rural heads confirmed the prospect of creating agricultural cooperatives and 25 percent of manufacturing cooperatives. We understand the tradition of the Ukrainian village. The Ukrainian village has its traditions: to go to a wedding party, to join an army, to work in a band, and, excuse me, to go to a cemetery if anyone needs to be buried. And this, we must not neglect, is what we use for our purposes. If today many counselors say that this number of rural people in our country will not provide a profitable agricultural business, I am not ready to agree with them. Our tradition will allow us to minimize any consequences, any economic challenges both inside and outside, and we understand clearly that today the world's economy is in economic turbulence and the agricultural sector is growing. Today, Minagropolitics have developed typical models of cooperative associations of farmers that will facilitate the provision of services in the field of production and minimize the negative impact of intermediaries on the formation of the final price for the consumer, significantly reducing it. Of course, you and I know that we have taken a certain step towards the elimination of the collectives, but for 20 years we have not offered any form of collective farming in exchange for the village. And why we are implementing a cooperative system today because it is promising in developed countries and in developing countries, and it meets the requirements of our Ukrainian way of life. Today, we have created 19 regional rural development centres based on higher education institutions subordinated to the Ministry, where 5.5 thousand rural and rural heads have already attended seminars. This year, another 8,000 rural and rural heads will participate in such seminars. In these seminars, we give rural, village heads information about the creation of cooperatives, if possible, in forms, in directions. Because there are traditions in every village, someone is growing pork meat, someone is growing berries, someone is holding gardens, and so on. I'm sure that'll give you a positive answer. We also learn how to put into practice cooperatives and service providers and manufacturers. In addition, our agrarian universities have secured four students at each village council, starting from the first to the last course, so that they can work together, give advice, write diplomas and work courses together. And so we can also help rural, rural heads, and as far as we can get young people to join the Ukrainian village. Next question. The question of State support, which is foreseen by farmers in the 2013 budget. This year's budget provides 8.1 billion dollars to support the development of APC enterprises. Of course, it's less than the previous year, and of course it's 8 billion, and it's a special budget fund. Two billion of them are allocated to the Agrarian Fund to perform the functions that I announced earlier. These are forward purchases and the formation of a food grain reserve so that the state can, not by preventive methods, but by economic intervention stabilize the physical needs of the grain in the internal market and in price. 100 million dollars to support the development of hops, gardening and vineyarding, and 650 million dollars to support the livestock sector, especially what I have heard, to support the creation of a family farm. Of course, we understand clearly that we agrarians understand that a government budget can channel as much finance as income allows. And we're trying to find an effective model so that every bracelet that's separated from the government budget is effective for investing and motivating in the development of the agricultural sector. Since last year, we have reviewed the mechanism of State financial support for agricultural producers and directed them to small and medium-sized producers. This policy will continue in the current year. The state will pay maximum attention to the one-man and the peasant courtyards. Our job is to get government aid to specific peasants, thus motivating economic processes in the countryside. But given the lack of funds from the general fund and the opportunity, I would like to ask for the support of the people's deputies in amending the State Budget 2013 Act. Of course, if that's possible. The next question is about the development of domestic agriculture. The question is complex, the question is important, the question is necessary. And for us agrarians, you know, it's a two-way question: on the one hand, we want to have our national agricultural technology, on the other hand, we want quality, efficient and long-term technology that works as much as possible. One question is diverse, but it is important. And today I'm going to bring in this number: just because we don't have the necessary amount of grain harvesting technology, our crops don't get about 6 million tons of grain every year, because the technology is morally outdated and because it's the amount, that's the load on one combine, if it's higher than in our neighbouring countries. And in order for us to minimize this negative, of course, we need technical resupply. Today, 28 million acres [28 million ha] of agricultural technology is being processed in Ukraine, more than two thirds of which are made up of morally and physically obsolete machines. The annual acquisition of technology is only 10 percent of the technological need. In 2012, we purchased 15 thousand units of agricultural technology for a total of more than six billion. Yet almost 82 percent of it is technology and equipment for foreign production. At least 75,000 combines and more than 400,000 tractors have a promising park of grain harvesting technology. The budget provides annual funding for technical equipment in the APC through the financial lysing mechanism of the country’s agricultural technology. The 2013-2014 programme provides a billion 200 million dollars for financial agrolysis just for inclusion and motivation to increase the supply of technology to farmers. There is an agrolysis task in order to include four bracelets, or manufacturers, for each national bracelet, or credit funding, so that this sum can be multiplied by five and can be made widely available to agriculture. The programme also provides for the crediting of credits for measures designed to modernize the production capacity of machinery companies and to invest in the production of modern high-product technology. I'm going to take a brief break from your legislative clearance. Yes, the Tax and Customs Codes of Ukraine exempt from income tax until 2020, payment of taxes on materials and composite products not produced in Ukraine and imported by machinery companies for agricultural production and last November became effective in amending the Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. These changes greatly simplify the issue of taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u3	Let me finish. And finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u4	One leaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u5	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u6	Today we already have concrete examples: the Herson machine factory is, it has a joint venture with the company "Class", the Patton Institute with New Holland, the Ukrainian tractor company, the Italian company "Landina", the company "Techno" with the Minsk tractor factory. And five investment projects in this direction are still being developed. Of course, you know that the main task is to refuel. What is the challenge in implementing the 2014 Economic Revitalization Programme? In two years, we have to achieve: first, 100 percent food security for the state; secondly, the increase in agricultural exports to $22 billion per year.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u7	Finish up, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u8	And of course, the foreign trade balance is 13 billion. Also increase the gross output by 260 billion per year in 2010 prices and increase the budget to 48 billion per year. And I'm convinced that these tasks will be handled by farmers and agriculture, taking into account the development of the Ukrainian village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat. People's deputies please sign up from factions for requests to the government. Here comes the recording. From factions, read the Rules! Here comes the recording. I beg of you, Freedom Union, National Deputy Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u10	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u12	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Minister, an export duty has been introduced to the sunflower, allowing the oil extraction industry to reconstruct, save jobs and increase the export of sunflower oil. Today, the branch has been strengthened and has every reason to give up annual indirect supply of between 2 billion and 4 billion dollars. And you know that very well. Your attitude toward the difference of export duties to sunflowers and the return of money that is distributed annually from farmers to producers of oil back to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u13	I'm asking you to turn on the mic of Mikoli Volodymyrovich the Jury. Do you have a microphone? In the front row?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u14	I'm sorry, I didn't quite hear the question, but. But I'll tell you. If this is about oil in the fat industry and solar industry, or technical culture, I said in my speech that, first of all, it's a culture that's important to us. What Is Oil? 58 percent of world oil exports belong to Ukraine. We're a single leader in the world market. And, of course, we must be balanced in this matter. We understand that increasing the area by the technical culture of the sunflower we have no right to allow. But the yield of our sunflower today is two times less than that of Central Europe. What does this talk about? You have to raise technology, you have to import the necessary amount of nutrients, and you have to raise the questions. and increase the production volume of oil. As for the issue of export duty, let me tell you this. I'm working. As a member of the agrarian committee, I myself initiated, on the one hand, once a difference of duties, but you and I were given a more powerful oil-fat branch, which is competitive today. And you know that according to our agreements with the World Trade Organization, every year we reduce by 1 percent this tax. And we can. Inside the country, so much competition that today the sunflower has grown 2 times in two years, from 2,200-2,500 to 4,505. So this is a question of discussion. And I'm ready to have a discussion on the committee. The main thing to do is to "want to do it as best as ever," so that we don't do it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u15	I beg you, Fatherland faction, Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u17	Please give it to Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u18	Basil Krawchuk, Jurya Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland." Questions to the minister of agropolitics. In three years, the President has not signed any legislation aimed at supporting the development of the agricultural sector of the economy. Last week, there were two key laws that would determine the powerful development of this field! Veto received the Biofuel Development Act, which would provide 100 percent of the country’s energy independence. There are also laws on organic farming. As we know, the veto offers are prepared by the government, its ministries, and its departments. Questions. Is that your attitude toward the government or the village as a whole?Oh, my God! In turn, VAT and fixed taxes will be eliminated in rural areas! And the Ministry will remain silent again?Oh, my God! What can you do specifically to help the villagers?Oh, my God! Is this the ultimate destruction for the village? Thank you. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Questions are relevant. That's really great. The main thing is that the questions are correct, relevant. I'd like to ask you about biofuels. You can see how many experts, how many thoughts on biofuels. But we, with the balance and the structure of agricultural production, and the import dependence on oil products, and the world experience, we understand that biofuel production is essential for us. This is a strategy for us. First of all, you see prices fluctuating and the amount of sugar beet growing per year. Why? Because we're not always expected to go to the external sugar market. And some countries even impose such financial constraints or barriers that we cannot overcome and internal consumption of sugar is stable at between 1 million and 1 million tons of sugar, and the volume of production, even by sowing a million hectares of land under sugar beet, is 60 million tons of sugar beet. We need 20 tops for sugar. What's going on? 40 is going to have to be put into technical processing for the production of biofuels. And the law, you know, we have a law in place in the country that provides for the voluntary use of 5 percent of bioethanol in light petroleum products this year and 5 percent of mandatory use since next year. I am convinced that this law already motivates the production of biofuels. And I'm a bright supporter of this particular direction. And now virtually all sugar factories have applied and their projects in scientific institutions to install biofuel, bioethanol, sugar plants. This will allow differentiated prices to be adjusted and priced so that the sugar industry does not suffer damage. With regard to organic production. You can see how attractive it is in the world to consume organically pure foods. And today, in the state, too, especially in the district centers, there are shops with organic food in the capital today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Thank you. Faction Vitalia Klitschka, Tkakouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u21	Please give the word to Kutov Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u22	To the corner, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u23	Taras Kutovov, Impact faction, 151 district, Poltavščina. Mikola Volodyrovich, I listened very carefully to your report and you said in it that, quite appropriately, you noticed that the village is meeting very often in our group, but unfortunately, the village is now spending more time at the cemetery than it is at the wedding. In this regard, you said in your report that the main task of the ministry is to support the family’s own household. You know that the headship of animal farming in Ukraine has been reduced twice during independence. In all of this, sometimes the minimum price for milk is sometimes 40 bracelets, 50 bracelets, and sometimes a few months, people don't get the money. Accordingly, in 2006, in 2010, 807 regulations regulated the minimum price for milk. I'd like to hear the ministry's position on the possibility of regulating the minimum price for milk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u24	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u25	Short. The position on the possibility of regulating the minimum price for milk this year and generally the position of the ministry in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. Yeah, unfortunately, it's so complicated that today we're spending more time, and the thing we're doing in the country is definitely the wedding. Unfortunately, we have 15 villages, 200, 300, 400 years of age, disappearing from our country’s map each year. And today our task, you and I, remember, was to use the slogan that regulates the market. And today our task is to minimize the negative effects of the market economy that have affected the social state of the village. And I'm going to give you an example of how many rulers, even in the last 100 years, who have tried to forget about a single person, have caused food crises or famine even worse. So today we clearly understand that the family farm for Ukraine is a guarantee of food security. It does not interfere with a large producer, but it is a guarantee of food security and social security for the Ukrainian village. As for the minimum price. Regrettably, administrative regulation, and today we have a regulation – 2.20 minimum price, but administrative regulation, is a temporary measure and a temporary measure that can only for a short time and can even deceiv our consciousness that we are helping. Today we've analyzed: from the population take 2 bracelets, 2.20 to the dairy plant enters 3.50. Unwarranted middleman, unsupervised middleman, abuse leads to such losses on farmers. And creating ready-made cooperatives, creating family farms, increasing milk productivity, will give us an economically sound price. I'll tell you what. Today there are companies where the purchase price of 4 bracelets and it's worth the price, it's worth the price. And we need to aim for a family farm, by means of a food cooler, to be able to economically demand the price of the chefs. And the village head plays a big role here. If he doesn't let the "driver" go through all the courtyards and bring it together, the price will be just. As they say, "father's band is easier to beat." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u28	A faction of Communists in Ukraine, National Deputy Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u29	Victor Hubbar, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro. I have a question for the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Mikola Volodymyrovich, you said in your statement that Ukraine loses about 6 million tons of grain each year because technology is obsolete. So the technology that was purchased last year is 80 percent of foreign production. What do you think, though, would you like to hear specifically, and farmers would like to hear a concrete response from the government, as the government plans to provide agricultural technology for agriculture? And will it be an advantage to the domestic manufacturer, or will it still be a technique to acquire foreign production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. I've already said that the question has two different poles. Of course, a farmer today wants to have quality technology. Of course, the question is for a nation that is a powerful agricultural producer. By the way, I'll give you an example like this. We're the number one country in per capita cultivation in the world, number one, we don't have any competitors. That's the first question. Secondly, of course, such a country cannot accept the lack of its agricultural machinery. But let's just say, you and I understand that if we haven't had such a decent combo in 20 years and even 20 years before, unfortunately, too much. So what do we do now? And the government is taking a clear position, and thanks to you, you've supported a number of legislative projects that allow today to take on global experience, become one level, create a joint venture and by localization start to produce a national combo. What about ours? You know what the Herson Combustion Plant has developed, a construction office, a new combine called SKIF. Now our scientific institutions are going to test them. By the way, there are positive prerequisites that this combine will be effective, and we are necessarily in the form of agrarian lysing, at least, 20 percent of the costs will be spent on this combine and our domestic agricultural technology to exploit and refine it in the operating mode. It is clear that any technique is being developed in the mode of operation, in the mode of detecting flaws, and in addressing them. We and the Herson Combin factory, with the design office, agreed that the first three years at each combine would be a fixed factory specialist to detect the shortcomings that would be revealed in the operation. And I'm convinced that this way, if we go to one level with foreign producers, we're going to be able to localize the laws that you've adopted, encourage agricultural engineering in our country. It's about farmers. I'm, for example, a bright supporter of the MTS that used to work 25-30 years ago. We can't force a farmer today with 100 hectares of land to buy a two million dollar combine and not use it to stand in full capacity. Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Zvigilski Yuchim Leonidovich, please. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Zviagiliski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u32	Dear Sergey Gennadievich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In the Donetsk region, a research institute of traumatology and orthopedics has been successful in performing 2,000 unique complex operations, treating patients from all over Ukraine, saving the health of tens of thousands every year. Contrary to common sense, the management of the Ministry of Health, namely, Deputy Minister of Tolstan, Aleksandr Konstantinović, decided that such a medical institution was not required in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u33	Raisa Vasilivna, please. Haven't you finished yet? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u34	They're destroying the institute. We demand that the people of the Eastern and Industrial Region know that the Institute of Traumaology is a place where, at any time at night and day, coal miners, metalsmiths, and builders are admitted unconditionally. This is the only institute in Ukraine that deals with severe injuries and their consequences. This institution, which has reduced 40 per cent during its operations in acute injuries. The Comrade Deputy Minister of Tolstani believes that Ukraine does not need and proposes to reduce its funding, cots, staffing, territory and so on. We believe that Ukraine does not need such an irresponsible official.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u36	Ukraine's deputies demand that the Ministry of Health immediately halt the destruction and destruction of the Indonesian Institute of Trauma and Orthopaedics. We ask Comrade Tolstanov to withdraw his incompetent letter. Most importantly, I am addressing the Minister of Health, Richtyreva Raise Vasilievne. Dear Raisa Vasilievna, you have been given a journey by the Donetsk region, so don't spit in the wells that gave birth to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u37	Raisa Vasilievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u38	I refer to Hero of Ukraine, Mr. Zviagileski Yuhim Leonidovich, I think everyone should remember the roots, and try to create the Ukrainian state, as you do, and we, for our part, here I think you and I share. I would advise you not to worry so much, but to read the document signed by Mr. Tolstown, there's no line that seems to have been cited as an example in this letter. It's not about shutting down the institute, picking up beds, reducing its funding. I have this document in my hands right now, and I'm going to ask you to place it with the deputies. I think that recent insinuations, which have always been created around a particular health issue, have a little bit of a different meaning. And I would advise the deputies to go directly and to the Ministry, if there are any questions. You will always receive objective and clear answers and help. So, Mr. Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski, I ask you to calm down, and whoever wrote this speech must have let you down without wanting it. Excuse him, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u39	Thank you. We've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can hear you! Calm down! Calm down, I can hear you! I'm asking you to turn on Zviagileski's microphone for replication. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u40	Dear Raisa Vasilievna, I want to warn you that when you walked on foot, I was a candidate, a doctor of technical science at the Moscow Mountain Institute. So I will teach you, I will teach you, and I will teach you how to live and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we have seven minutes to close this question. I'm asking the deputies to sign up for questions. Seven minutes, please. Overfaction Ivakhov, turn on the microphone. Please, just a minute. To whom is the question, and what question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u42	Ivakhov MP, 21th constituency, Volin. I have a question for the Minister of Agar Politics. Mikola Volodymyrovich, I've done my best to listen to your speech. I don't have an emotion -- specific questions. So it happened that I was the initiator of the Family Farm Support Bill. I've cleared your statement with the answers that the Ministry has given me as a deputy. So question number one, you gave me the answer that you don't have any statistics at all, how many family farms are in Ukraine, and from the rostrum you said you had a family farm support program. Question number two. Two weeks ago, there were definitely no single - person support programs. You're from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u44	. I'm glad you have one-man support programs. And question number three. There are four million singles in Ukraine. You helped 340,000 in 2012. I'm not going to say how, it's an RV support program and a Chinese dairy machine, 340,000 out of four million. Can it be considered to be support? Responsible for the creation of support programs for the Ministry of Agarine Politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u46	The questions are all interesting, especially for the Volin region. Because the Volin area is our leader in receiving grants for the one person for the maintenance of the young. And you know, the Chinese dairy machine has to look at how many cows there are in China to have the dairy machines there. So all the dairy machines that compensate for the state program, that's national production, you know that in a hurry and you know it. The second question, the family farms, the family farms, I said from the rostrum, clearly, we motivate the creation of family farms, and I don't see how that's relevant. That's the first one. We're not like you in an accounting office. Secondly, it is the task of the village head to form its own community and to band together. Thirdly, with support. Once again, the second year in a row, there's a thousand dollars worth of money to keep a young man for a year, and since this year, we've adopted a way of using the funds, I repeat, to compensate for the cattle that are put into processing: 2 bracelets of 50 copies only for singles and farmers; 1 and 2 bracelets for standard pig headed, which is up to 120 kilograms; and a bracelet for pigs to kill a living weight of 150 kilograms. What the results of this program were, I made it clear. In June we only started it last year. Of course, once again, I would like to tell you that in one year all four and a half million of us have one-persons -- so that we all get help in one year, we all have family farms, then we don't have a self-occupied population in the country, then we don't have Ukrainian villages dying out and then we don't have a so-called Ukrainian country reservation. I agree with you here, but let's do it. With 4 and a half 450,000, that's the first step. If we grow 10 percent every year, believe me, it'll be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u47	Thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u48	Thank you. I'd like to give him Fedor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u49	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u50	Feder Negoy, 186th District, Hersonian, Vitalia Klicka faction. I have a question for the Minister of Agrarian Politics. Mr. Minister, I have three questions. Will the State continue to support the construction and construction of wholesale agricultural markets? Second question. How many are currently active in Ukraine? And what's their power? And the third question. How the authorities provide access to these markets if the rent per square metre in these markets, at the time of the Capital, is 200 engravings per square metre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u51	Thank you. The question is of course important. Why did the State take such a step to support and motivate the construction of wholesale markets? In my speech, I said that you and I had been watching successfully, watching calmly as the Food Company was destroyed in the state. And it's not just the central branch of government, it's a question of local self-government, it's a question of both rural and rural heads, and unfortunately, the Food Company, you know, had 9 million joints, today it has 400,000 of them. You know, the grocery store had about 1,700 markets and markets where they were supposed to trade today who? Farmers and singles. Unfortunately, they're not allowed in there. And today, after learning the world's experience, and by the way, the Food Company was the most effective experience for us. Today, we are motivated by the production of rural cookers, and why? If we can. We could use the experience we had. The question of whether the State will continue to support it through budget compensation is that when the 2013 budget changes are made, there will be an article to support it. financial support for the construction of wholesale markets by compensating communication costs, for roads, like the world over, I mean the wholesale market. Question: How many wholesale markets? Today we have a license to create wholesale markets 12. How long does it work? It's working 3. It's working 3. How effective is it working, how effective does it work? It's working effectively one-on-one so far, the lion's brother-in-law. What is effective? The wholesale market, it's not a market and it's not a base in our mind. The wholesale market, that's the point where retail comes in and buys products from an agricultural producer. Today we have not yet achieved this culture. But we are convinced that step by step, time by time, year by year, this culture will be. There is still a need, in part, to change legislation, especially the issuance of tax overheads through wholesale markets, so that retail chains can buy products in these wholesale markets in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Last question, the "Paternity" faction didn't ask any written questions, she's entitled to one question. National MP Kugel, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Mikolo Volodymyrovich! If you cannot write a normal program, please see the 2009 Village Development Program of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. There it was planned and agricultural cooperatives have already begun to be implemented. And what you're doing right now is big markets for a farmer. And I have a very important question to ask you. Because I'm representing a committee from entrepreneurship. And I'm getting a lot of letters for a terrible corruption in your department. Then give me an answer. Please tell me, when did you create four companies that operators were supposed to work for, the grain traders from all over the country went to work abroad? The other one. Tell me, how did Chlibbudinvest, a 100% state-owned company, become a Cyprus company now 100%? Please tell me in what way today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u54	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. There's no time left to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u55	I'd like to say the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u56	Let Kugel finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u57	Last one. I asked the President of Ukraine how a person who is a relative of yours was appointed the first deputy of the State Veterinary Service without having a professional education to do so. Please give me the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u58	Please. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u59	Thank you. As for applications related to applications. Of course, programs, I'll tell you, our principle is this: loving programs, loving programs before, and most importantly, the previous experience we're taking into account. That's our principle. We're also taking into account the experience of the efficient work of the colonies, and we're taking into account the experience, the efficiency of the consumption, and we're taking into account the experience of the previous governments. Unfortunately, it was the only place where milk vehicles appeared, and today we cannot find them. If you can help us, we'll find them and get them into the program. As far as the grain market is concerned. Fortunately, there was no foreigner left, but they did. And today, when we were forced to enter in 2010, I'm not ashamed of that word of grain regulation, when the mouse in the agrarian fund hung instead of grain, we, we had to take this step. We understood that this was not a market move, and in government discussions were hard on the subject. But we did it. Yeah, it's not marketable, maybe ineffective, but today we're working with grain traders in the 100th percentile. We have memorandums, we regulate quotas, not quotas every month, but opportunities, export forecasts and internal balances in the protocol and everything is right. The second question. I think the letter you wrote will be the answer that will give you an explanation. If you need to meet me after the meeting, I will be happy to explain, including to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u60	Finish up. Thank you. "Year of questions to the government" is over. So let us make this decision: the government is 30 minutes away from us, and we will consider, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the parliamentary declarations of requests. And in 30 minutes, we'll continue our consideration of government issues. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: From Sergei Kaplin to the President of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to implement the emergency relief system at 112. So I'm voting to support this request. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:11]] For a hundred and Against 4, held – 10, not voted – 212. Decision taken. I'm willing to put the vote to the President's request. I need 226 votes. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:22:48]] For a hundred and Against 2, held – 15, not voted – 225. The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions is 0, Fatherland is 68, Vitalia Klicka is 31, Freedom is 32, Company is 3, non-fractional is 11. The request from Viacheslav Kirilenko and Lilia Grinevich to the President of Ukraine for the failure to increase the wages for teaching children in educational institutions, the reduction of the network of such institutions, and the transfer of them to self - financing. I'd like to vote in favour of this request, and I'd like to ask the people's deputies to identify themselves. [[11:23:46]] For 155 Against - 1, held - 12, not voted - 222. Decision taken. I would like to vote on this motion to the President. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[11:24:17]] For a hundred and Against 2, held – 15, not voted – 222. The decision is not taken. In order to request support, 226 are required to be sent in accordance with the Rules. A request from Mikola Kucheruk to the President of Ukraine for the suspension of the Ukraine’s Cabinet Order of 4 March 2013 (No. 231), some questions about the conduct of property valuations for tax purposes and the collection of payments, and other mandatory payments made in accordance with legislation. Please vote in favour of this request. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:25]] For-153 Supported. Against 3, held – 13, not voted – 217. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on a motion by Michael Kucheruk to send to the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:58]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Against 3, held – 18, not voted – 216. And the final request to the President of Ukraine, Tetjana Tears, for the improper investigation of the law enforcement agencies of the disappearance of citizen Irina Filisuk. People's deputies are requested to vote in favour of this request. [[11:26:42]] For 155 Decision taken. Against – 2, held – 12, not voted – 218. Proposal for a request from the President of Ukraine. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:27:13]] For-151 Ladies and gentlemen, let's now consider asking the heads of the department, the heads of the department. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u61	Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the non-refundation of deposits by the Credit Association "Lubno" to the inhabitants of Mirgorod Poltava region. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the award of a school bus for the State-trained boarding school of art, I-III, graduated from the College of Arts in Opišany. Alexander Sić to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadequacy of legal regulations with the Ukrainian Education Act. Alexander Tabalova to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the financing of hydrological and sanitary work to improve the ecological condition of the Ingula River. Ruslan Solver to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on delay in resolving the issue of the transfer to the municipal property of the Fastew City Council of the Kiev Land Area of 0.9 ha in the territory of the decommissioned military unit - military town No. 6 in the city of Fastov on International Street, 20. Mr. Grinievetsky's Sergey to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for opening an international pass point for Orlovka (Ukraine) – Isakcha (Romania). Rustama Raupov to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, on an extraordinary situation involving an extraordinary situation in the residential fund of a town-type village called Lake Zitomir district. Jurya Orotyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the planning and state of implementation of the measures scheduled for the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Hungermare in connection with the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust. Sergia Teryochina to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev, the Kyiv City Public Administration for the construction of a kindergarten and a school instead of a multi-family home for officials of Nazbank Ukraine, and the legal responsibility of individual officials who changed the welfare of children to the welfare of bankers. Sergey Kuzmenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates public utilities, the Prosecutor of the Kirovograd District, on an unwarranted increase in prices and tariffs in the area of municipal services in Alexandria and the Alexandrian region of Kirovograd. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the provision of information on the mass killings of repressed Ukrainians in the Halavin Forest, in the territory of the Chalavin village council of the Chernigiv district in the 1930s. Alexander Tabalova to the Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine to address the problem of preservation and protection of archaeological monuments. Roman Ilika to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the existing state of the State Mining and Chemical Company Polymineral and its prospects for development. Tetjana Tears to the Head of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine for work on the legality and purpose of reducing the number of employees of the state-owned enterprise "Urzlzliznica". Vasil Glady to the first Deputy Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine to take immediate action to repair the Streis-Chernovci road in the village of the town-type of the Sveti district of Ivano-Frankiv district. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Director General of the U.S. Railway Administration of Ukraine for the improvement of rail transport services for residents of Kalinivka Province. Jury Crook to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the completion of the current repair of the R-33 State Road "Reni-Orlovka-Izmail". Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine from extraordinary situations, heads of the Lviv District Administration on the management of effective mechanisms for coordinating future emergency and other urgent work between local executive authorities, emergency services and other services, and on the readiness of appropriate techniques and necessary means in connection with possible floods and floods in Lvivščina. Andrija Pavlovski to the first deputy head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the termination of execution by the Pension Fund of Ukraine of judicial decisions that have gained legal power and have been held accountable for judicial matters (the debtors by executive conduct or by voluntary order) throughout Ukraine. Alexander Shevchenk and Oleg Knavejkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the Elimination of Violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, with the approval of the Instructions for Organizing Investigative (Investigative) Actions and for the Use of Their Results in Criminal Conduct. Group of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Pavlánka, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the Legality and Reasonability of Setting Gas Prices for Education and Other Institutions Financed from State and Local Budgets; Jurija Shapovalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Poltava Region, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in Poltava, the Prosecutor of the city of Kremenczuk for the verification of the illegal possession of property in a particularly large way and the task of the State Enterprise (the Public Society of Ukrattransnafta), which belongs to the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the State of Ukraine) of millions of losses. Sergey Kaplan to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the need for urgent measures aimed at preventing illegal possession of property by the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, "The Yaltinski Central Military Sanatorium" by former Director General Alexander Shaptal. Andrija Pishna to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of violations of Ukrainian legislation by individual institutions and institutions of state and municipal property in part of the purchase of gas at prices that are substantially above the threshold. Svetlana Fabricant to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine on the illegal construction of the Marazliyevska substation of the Odessa Open Association of Shareholders in the central park of garden and park art and the threat to the scientific activities of the astronomical observatory. Andrija Putilov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office to verify compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and to take appropriate measures to ensure that the State-owned enterprise PAT is not bankrupted and that the AutoColorite plant is protected and the rights and interests of the employees of the listed enterprise are protected. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into the traffic accident that took place on 2 November 2011 on the 365 km road of Kyiv-Odes near the village of Shirayev, which resulted in the death of Mikhailo Greenczak. Andrija Tajniboka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at verifying the inactivity of law enforcement agencies. Valentina Matvieva to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the irregularity of the management of the Open Shareholders Association of Ternopils in the issuance of documents for the appointment of employees on extended terms. Victor Gubar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to expedite the investigation of a criminal case violated by the Ripkin District Attorney's Office on the acquisition of property by members of the limited liability "Lan" of the village of Mohnachi in the region of Chernigiv. Viktor Razwadowski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of members of the public prosecutor's office to repeated appeals regarding the unlawful actions of the head of the New Guinean Village Council of the Wallery Garbus region. Vitaly of the Ingredient to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of receipt by suppliers of natural gas and electricity for advance payments. Igora Brichenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the state of construction of the pipeline to the city of Snigurovka and the violation of the legislative requirements for the gasification of the city of Sniguravka Mikolai. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring by the prosecutor of the city of Kyiv Mikola Beskishkom on the imprudentity of the Kyivrada Rules of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, which led to the deprivation of Ukrainian national MPs provided for by the law of the right to consult at the session of the Kiev City Council. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Hmélník District Administration, the Department of Health of the Hmélník District Public Administration, the district and city councils of the Hmělník Region for the reform of the health sector. Igor Vasyunika to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal alienation of the hostels of the former Lviv Bus Plant. Paul Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the results of the investigation into the criminal case of the murder of the leader of the youth patriotic organization "SIC" Maxime Teaki on 17 April 2009 in the city of Odessa. Mr. Gigi to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of the violation of the rules of procedural law by the judge of the Lenin district court of Vinnice, Yuri Kovbasa, and the officials of the procurator's office of the Winnitsk district, on the criminal charge of Oleg Yakovlev and Marina Bagdasarova, which led to violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the citizens noted. Michael Blawajkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the officials of the Lviv Regional Clinic. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the falsification of electoral documents, the results of the vote and the examination of the involvement in the crimes committed by the head of District Electoral Commission No. 93, the members of the District and District Election Commissions, the heads of the regime and officials of local self-government. Oleg Medunica to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact that the budget was broken down to 74 million dollars by a criminal group formed by officials of the State Tax Administration and the Society with limited responsibility of the Sumyautogas ITC. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the non-compliance of the Westinkombank private stock company with the obligation to repay deposits. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for Legal Assessment of Abuses by the Management of Kiev City Hospital No. 1, published by the media. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office in investigating the fraudulent actions of officials and government officials on the falsification of the name shares of 3200 shareholders of the Closed Shareholders Society Zorya, the village of Zorya of the Plains region, with the aim of acquiring foreign property. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights of Andrija Omelchenka. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of more than 2,000 green plants in the recreational zone in the Obolon district of Kiev. Alexander Zubchevsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the establishment of the guilty persons who conducted an expert study on the reasons for the fire in the premises of the Melitopol City Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine, whose findings proved false and led to the commission of the following arsons and crimes in the city of Melitopol of Zaporozhye. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the Court of First Instance of the District Court of Chernivci Grigory Popov for making a notoriously unjust decision. Alexander Dubov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the act of a public official in relation to a journalist, the violation of the oath of a public official, the presence in his actions of signs of the composition of a crime, provided for in article 171 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which resulted in deliberate obstruction of the professional activity of a journalist, and the use of response measures to attract Ukraine's established criminal liability legislation. Alexander Prisznyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on representatives of the Company of Ukraine and Lenin Komsomol in the city of Korstoshih Zitomir district. Olga Mikhailenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation in the removal of land in the green rest zone of the city of Skadovian by the leadership of the Hersonian region. Julia Yooffe to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility against those guilty of violating the law on the election of deputies. Jury Wozniak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, on ensuring the proper and timely completion of the executive direction on the withdrawal of funds for the benefit of individuals from the Public Shareholders Association Westinkombank. Paul Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts by tax police investigators, which contain signs of criminal offence provided for in article 162 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code (violence of residence or other possession of a person, unlawful search), article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (infringement of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy) and article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (exceeding official powers). Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the collection of debt from wages and the protection of other labour rights. Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Ivano-Frankiv area of official duties in the investigation of criminal cases and improper prosecutorial supervision of the activities of law enforcement agencies. Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Chernivecki region, which contain signs of criminal offence provided for in article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (interruption of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy) and article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (exceeding official powers). Rustama Raupov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the renewal of the right to receive electricity. Mr. Grinevetsky's Sergei to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of civil rights to housing. Sergey Mishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities of the rental of land supplies to close relatives of the Kyiv district administration, Alexander the Jury and Irina Moskalenko, at underpriced prices. Sergey Firemack, Firemack, I apologize to the Attorney General of Ukraine for addressing Valentina Dmitrova, Fedora Iwasievy, Svetlana Tochinsky, regarding the violation of their housing and property rights by the Odessilmash Open Shareholder Society. Jury Orotyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacle to the exercise of the parliamentary powers of Yuri Orotyuk by the officials of the Zvenigrad City Council, the rural councils of Morinci and Shevchenkov Zvenigrad district and other officials of the Cherka district. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the psychological pressures against Yulia Timoshenko due to a 24-hour and unlimited video of her place of detention and the permanent value of prisoners, particularly men, directly in the Chamber of the Central Hospital "Urzalznice" No.5 in Kharkiv. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of facts that strongly testify to Julia Timoshenko's involuntary involvement in the procurement and murder of Eugene Szczerbán, as well as the abuse of the "One Energy Systems of Ukraine" case. Groups of National Deputies (Ginks, Paris, Marcinkova) to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of information on the legalization by the mayor of Odessa by Alexi Kostusev of the proceeds obtained in a criminal way. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Matios, Heratschenko) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the transfer of housing to the employees of the National Bank of Ukraine on the street of Williams 10, dedicated to the construction of a preschool facility in 240 places. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Kowalczuk and others) A total of 35 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to bring to justice officials of the Ukrainian Security Service who committed illegal acts and violated the legitimate rights of the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Dubnevic. Groups of National Deputies (Mattvijeva, Topalova, Gordijenko) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the review of the appeal of the public of the city of Uzhgrad regarding the legality of the alienation of the city stadium "Avangarde" and the sale of sports and farm objects located in its territory. Groups of National Deputies (Odarchenka, Briginca, and others) In total, four deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-admission of the “tint” privatization of the Hotel Court building and for the establishment of persons guilty of under-receiving the Ukaina State Budget over 150 million dollars. Romano Romanyuk and Igor Pober to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the taking over and organizing of a comprehensive examination of the facts of the misconduct of individual employees of the Ternopolis medical facilities of their professional duties, which resulted in the death of Mary the Ripper. Groups of National Deputies (Tegniboka, Yatsenuka, Klicka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts, which contain signs of criminal offence, as provided for in article 361 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (unsanctioned interference in the work of electronic computing machines (computers), automated systems, computer networks or electricity networks), article 351 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (interruption of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy) article 163 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (violation of the secret of correspondence, telephone, telegraph or other correspondence transmitted by means of communication or computer). Groups of National Deputies (Balicsky, Duchka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the hooliganic actions on February 16, 2013 in the city of Ohtyrka Sumska District of the National Deputy of Ukraine from the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" by Igor Miroshtnick and his further responsibility. Andrija Shevchenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, prosecutor of the Kyiv region, on the possible negative impact of the business activity of La Farge on the infrastructure of the Kyiv region. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration regarding the provision of information on cleaning and snowing costs in Kiev. Olga Lewchenko to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the closure of the blood production department of the Kiev City Blood Center. Olga Lewchenko to the Kiev City Council for the day-to-day session of Kievrada, the draft decision "Rescinding the decision of their VI session to convene the Kiev City Council on 12 July 2012 "On granting permission for the development of the project to a land establishment for the removal of land to a utility company for the maintenance and operation of the housing fund special purpose "Speczitlobud" on the street of Andrija Bubnov, 4 in the Bolosivian district of Kiev for the construction, maintenance and maintenance of a residential building (including the construction programme) of accessible housing in Kiev for 2010-2017 years". Oleg Shablatovic to the prosecutor of Kiev for failure to execute a court decision on the fact that there was material damage. Igora Brichenka to the head of the Mikolai County State Administration for the inadequacy of repair work at the Novobus Central Hospital in the Mikolai district. Denis Zenzersky to the Dnipropetrovsk City Head on the implementation of the arrangements for the preschool facility No. 310 of the Dnipropetrovské misdemeanor. Denis Zenzersky to the Dnipropetrovsk City Head for immediate action with the well - built area of Sevastopol Park in Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Lviv City Head for the cost of renting land for the use of land - owned entities in Lviv. Oleg Shabaltovich to the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye region on the groundless closure of a criminal case based on the facts of fraud. Vitalia Žuravsky to the Prosecutor of the Žitomir Region for the violation of the laws of law in force by the Regional Organisation of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society Youth Union "Our Ukraine" and the Žitomir City Committee of Youth Organizations. Vasil Pazinjak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the non-admission of gross violation of the provisions of Chapter III of articles 5, 7, 9 of the Istanbul Convention of 26 June 1990 on the temporary importation into Ukraine of goods (including transport equipment) and the illegal detention and removal of means of transport for commercial purposes temporarily imported into Ukraine on the basis of documents provided for by the Convention, by road inspectors and by measures taken to ensure the legitimate constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens from the militia of your customs service. Alexander the Peace to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Council, on the application of measures concerning the unfair and biased use of budgetary resources by the local authorities and the local self-government authorities of the Žitomir region, which has led to a balanced budget for Ukraine. Victor Chumak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prosecution’s response to a violation of the law in a pretrial investigation into a crime involving the murder of a citizen of Pavel Vaskowski. Alexander Sić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring equal rights before the law and adequate funding in the education sector. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of voters in the 67th constituency, peasants of Žitomirski, Lubarski, Romani and Wonderland regions on the need to raise purchase prices for milk, meat and other agricultural products. Olga Fight to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, regarding the non-closure and reduction of the personnel of District Hospital No. 1 in the Antonov village of the Hmelni district of Krasiliv. Olga Fight to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the timely receipt of State subsidies by the Hmelnik Municipal Enterprise Electrotrans. Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of retirement payments to employees of state and municipal cultural institutions working in the fields of culture and art. Arsena Avakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on discriminatory and unfriendly actions by the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding Ukrainian firms in the air conditioning sector. Vladimir Misika to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the inaction, negligence of medical personnel at the Ternopil City Hospital No. 2 and Ternopil City Hospital No. 1, which led to the death of patient Maria Derkac. Sergey Averchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper response of law enforcement authorities to offences committed by citizens Anatoly Litvin and Olena Tyhnuk regarding the citizens of Peter Tkachenka, Nina Jelgazin, Bogdan Pustovidk and Andrija Bryzick. Leadia Kotelak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the implementation of the plan for the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation and the development of modern standards for limitly permissible emissions of pollutants under EU Directives. Lidija Kotelak to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for conducting a state-owned environmental analysis on the impact of Plugue and Greatwillian watersheds on the state of the environment. Sergia Sasa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper resolution of the issue of the capital repair of central water supply and water supply systems in the Kirovograd region. Time has been used to announce requests from national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u62	I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the session room. The question yet to be asked, What procedure? Now, let's invite the deputies, let's take a look at it, Vladimir Alexanderovich. Let's have an announcement, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union of Equality in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the inter-fractional "Equality" MPs of Ukraine were elected: the Coastal Irina Grigorovna and Jeremeyev Igor Mironović. In view of the adoption on 16 April 2013 of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh draft amendment to article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in accordance with part 5 of article 148 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you that a corresponding communication has been sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and article 231 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations of 174 National Deputies, have made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So let's welcome Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine, who is present at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a break. Are we gonna take a break or are we gonna work? Should I vote? Please vote on your work without interruption. Don't shout. Vote, Your Honor. [[12:01:52]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to sit down, so I'm going to put this question to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream because you can't hear! Don't scream! I'll bet you a vote. Please. Did you announce that the deputies would come into the session room? Come on in. I'm betting on the vote, honourable deputies, on the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without interruption. Please vote. [[12:03:29]] For 279 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party 152, Fatherland 75, Vitalia Klicka hit 3, Freedom 36, Company zero, non-factional 13. The following procedure is proposed: In order to report to the national deputy authorized by the initiators, the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers is given up to 20 minutes. To answer the oral question, representatives of the MPs and national deputies are given up to 10 minutes. The Prime Minister of Ukraine asked for 45 minutes to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] In order to speak to representatives of committees and MPs, they are offered up to 30 minutes, three minutes to perform. After the discussion, vote on the adoption of the Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 2617) on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the factions to sign up for the procedure. Please, the faction of the regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u63	The distinguished Vladimir Vasiljevic, respected colleagues, has indeed spoken of the procedure in advance on today's day of the Government's report. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is also time to speak from the opposition, questions for the opposition, time for a thorough answer to questions, for Prime Minister Azarov's report, statements. In the statements alone, we ask that we give the factions first to speak to each faction from the committees in the rest of the time. And in one hour 45, the limit is perfectly normal and optimal, to draw the line. We propose the adoption of this agenda and the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard the deputy from the screams, but I have come to understand that he is in favour of such regulations as I have announced. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u66	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, we would like to remind you of article 232 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the initiator has 45 minutes to report. And we would like to have parity for Arsenius Yatsenuk's report, which represents three opposition factions here and then the government. And in general, we want to address you both as chairman and as government. After all, dear fellow ministers, we would like you to demonstrate a European approach to communicating with Parliament. It's not normal when every Friday an hour of questions to the government becomes so boring. The hourly report where we hear about improvement. We and the press. And in journalists, and we don't have the ability to answer the questions, in fact, what this "hour of questions to the government" is in the European sense of this context. You're always trying to convert this into a comfortable format. 45 minutes of drumming about nothing, and then there's no way to ask the question. We're protesting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u68	I want to answer to the deputy. As far as the reporter's concerned. He asked for 20 minutes. But if there's a second offer, we'll listen. According to the Rules, it can actually be up to 45 minutes. As far as the matter is concerned, this is not a matter for government. This is a matter for the Supreme Council. As you and I have determined with the Rules, so have we. Well, let's look at the Rules, and the government will do it. No questions asked. The Freedom Union, please. People's MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u69	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Eugene Melnik. Please give the floor to Oleg Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u70	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u71	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, let us, if we follow the Rules, follow it fully. Because if you shorten this procedure, it's going to cancel out. The regulation provides 45 minutes for the initiator of the draft decision and the violation of the matter, 45 minutes for the question and 45 minutes for the Prime Minister. If you cancel out, cancel out. If you are already violating the Rules, it is somewhat parity. And not so much, let's give it full time, and here we're going to cancel out. And it turns into a clown. So I'm asking you, if you're already allowing a violation, then at least in proportion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u72	Keep your voice down and listen more. That's the second time I've said it. What the reporter asked for 20 minutes. He'll tell you what he thinks. And I'm strictly acting on the Rules! At least listen to what I'm saying. The Fatherland faction, Ilik. Well, they'll say now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u73	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Please give the floor to the fundamental expert of the Rules of Procedure, Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Sergei Sass, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Well, maybe in this important case, we have to stick to the Rules. He's the law. And public authorities, according to part two of article 19, should act on the basis, within and in the manner prescribed by law. And it says that the initiator is given up to 45 minutes. He's going to use all of it or part of it, it's already the initiator's business. So let us, for once, follow the procedure provided for in article 232 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u76	It says 45 minutes. And he'll be speaking, no questions asked! Everybody here? Everyone's been speaking for a minute from the non-fractional and we're starting to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u77	Volodymyr Vasilovich! Oleg Lazko. Volodymyr Vasilovich! You have announced a procedure for dealing with the subject of committee statements and factions. But I would like to remind you that there is a large proportion of non-factional MPs in Parliament. In addition, according to the procedure, deputies and deputies, regardless of their factional affiliation, are entitled to speak in the discussion. Therefore, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to foresee, as provided for in the Rules Act, the possibility for all Ukrainian national deputies to participate in the discussion on the resignation of the Government of Azarov. In addition, please allow the MPs to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Because we don't have so many questions for the rapporteurs and initiators. We agree with the topic of the resignation of the government, but we have a question specifically for the Prime Minister. The rules give this opportunity. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to abide by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u78	Thank you, thank you. Let's move on to the question. The word for the report is given to the authorized initiators to raise the question of the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to National Deputy Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich. [[Applause]] Turn the microphone on in the stands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u79	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, let me begin the procedure for dealing with this matter. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, yesterday in your office there was a clear agreement on how this matter is being considered. The initiator's performance is 20 minutes. The answers to the questions are 10 minutes. Prime Minister's address is 20 minutes, answers to questions are 1 minute. And then come out of the factions. And I'm asking you as Head to make the decision that you made yesterday. Let's not start by wavering the question. The second is about the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is the most important question that we should consider today. Honourable Members of Parliament, this is the first time in three years of the presidency of Viktor Yanukovic in these walls the opposition has come to consider the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is not just the responsibility of the government of Ukraine, but it is the responsibility of Viktor Yanukovich and Mikola Azarov and all members of the government who do not carry out their duties and who are to be retired. [[Applause]] Dear citizens, respected Ukrainians, because this is not just a resignation from the government. This is the responsibility of this government to the great forty - five million - dollar Ukrainian state. It is the responsibility of every Ukrainian who has really hoped for a change in his life, who has really hoped for an improvement that would be much better tomorrow than it is today, who has entrusted his voices. Unfortunately, however, the people of Ukraine were deceived by this power, this president and this government. We have no personal claim to the Prime Minister or to President Yanukovic or to members of his government. It's not personal, it's national. If you were given a mandate of trust to change the country, you had to use that mandate. You've changed a lot. True, you have changed this for yourself, for your pockets, for your families, not for 45 million Ukrainians. And then, when the Prime Minister came into this room and the so-called majority applauded him, Mr. Head, the next time you run into the Ukrainians' hall, walking the streets, and I think the applause would be quite different -- the fifth will be tossing this whole government from what they've brought the lives of Ukrainians to today. [[Applause]] We do not want this issue to become a matter of purely political talk and to be considered not in substance but in form. The government's job is to work for its country. The government's job is to solve problems that have not been solved in the Ukrainian state for decades. And when we say, for decades, I want to remind you that this government is not the first time in power. And the Party of Regions isn't the first time in power. It was this government, this president and this party that had been in actual power for almost 10 years. And that's why what's been happening in the Ukrainian state in recent decades is the merit of these people who are now in the government's bed, and this is the credit of Viktor Yanukovic, who is not here, and unfortunately he didn't take advantage of his constitutional duty to come to Parliament, and by March 31st to address the Ukrainian people with a message to the nation about what needs to be done in the country and how to do it. There was a mass of economic and political programs, and before the presidential elections Victor Janukovic and the Party of Regions published what was to be done for the people of Ukraine. And it happened that all of this was done, just done for a small bunch of people who represent power and who messed with Ukrainian society. We'd like to start with, first of all, economic figures. The numbers, they're clear, they're simple, they're understandable, and for those who don't understand, first of all, for this government, we're going to try to explain it as opposition. He told us here, from this rostrum, Prime Minister Azarov in 2010, that the economic crisis has been overcome, that the government has finally come to a positive trend in the development of the Ukrainian economy, and that there are no warnings that the Ukrainian economy will fall. Everything has improved since 2010. Now let's go back to what's really going on. According to the State Statistical Committee report, one of the indicators of economic growth and the overall health of the Ukrainian economy is the growth of the so-called gross domestic product, if it is positive, that means that the economy is growing if it is at 0, that means that the economy is stagnation. Improvements have taken place, and economic growth has also taken place. The growth of Ukraine’s gross domestic product in 2012 was 0 percent. This is the improvement you brought in, and it is for this improvement that we want you to retire. In contrast to the fact that all the world's countries, I stress, the major world countries that have really recovered since the 2008-2009 crisis have shown positive trends and dynamics. And today the global growth of the economy is 4 percent. The government is now selling what seems to have stopped rising prices in Ukraine. Indeed, according to the State Committee on Statistics in Ukraine, inflation is zero. Someone might say it's good, it's finally improved, because prices in Ukraine have stopped growing. But this is another lie that does not fit the reality. We're on these slides. Where is it that the slides are gone, Mr. Head? For those who do not have slides, there is a booklet. Those who can read, I turn to the government, and there are probably still people who can read. See what happened to prices in the last year. Prices for the so-called product set or "pourset", as it is called in the people of Ukraine, have risen by 61 percent. So our second conclusion. In addition to the fact that the Ukrainian economy has not demonstrated any percentage of growth, the Ukrainian economy today is stagnant. Prices do not grow on goods that Ukrainians cannot afford to spend. But for the goods that relate to their everyday lives, it's food, it's housing services, it's teaching, it's ultimately putting on your child and sending them to school, prices are rising. And evidence of the 61 percent increase in the cost of a productive set is a vivid realization of how so - called economic improvement is taking place in Ukraine today. Ukraine is in a stage of economic recession and zero price increases, respected authorities, connected to only one, you have completely compressed the consumer market, people have no money to buy. And so the whole general economic situation is dead, it's called stagnation, which then goes into economic recession, and it's going to be the next step. Third. What about the country’s livelihood? The country actually survived somehow. How can a country where the economy is not growing, where industrial production is falling, where there is no growth in the economic activity index? It can survive only in the way that this government has offered. In the last three years, the government has borrowed an amount equal to the amount lent by the Ukrainian State over the past 20 years. The total debt of the Ukrainian State is a direct government guaranteed debt of $67 billion. By the time they improved, the total amount owed was twice as low as the government’s policy. It's not enough that Ukrainians pay for servicing these debts to foreign creditors for billions of dollars a year that could have been shipped to new hospitals, to new schools, to infrastructure, to our education, to our medicine, we send them to creditors. At the same time, every Ukrainian's debt to creditors today amounts to 12,000 dollars. If a child is now born in a maternity home, the child is now guilty of 12,000 dollars from the first second of his birth because of those in this bed of the so - called government. Debt pressures have not only affected the economy. Now look what happened to the gold reserves in the countries. The country’s gold reserves as the main indicator of stability are not only the national currency but also the foreign investor’s confidence indicator before the country is able to pay for three or six months of import. Is a country capable of keeping its banking system and maintaining its economy when there are any economic collapses? If the economy were to grow in Ukraine, if the volume of exports were to grow and we were to get a currency return, probably the gold reserves would have to grow, logically. But if Ukraine today has $16 billion in negative trade balances and $14 billion in current balance of payments. What Is Happening to Gold Stocks? They're melting, they're melting like snow that they didn't clean up in Kiev. Today, there are 24 billion of these 34 billion dollars left. The Central Bank has lost $10 billion in the last three years, I want to put my mind at ease on industrial issues. In the last six months, the Ukrainian industry has not fallen, it has fallen, minus 6 percent of industrial growth. And I'm surprised how it can happen that a parent party that shows that they're sort of professional, and they, as big business representatives, first of all, industrial, proved their full professional incompetence. You don't even know how to run your own businesses and companies. Because the main industrial potential, which was concentrated in both the Centre and the East, today demonstrates not just the dynamics of falling but the closing down of production. In Zaporozhye, there are mass cuts in Donetsk. And when we talk about mass contractions, these are tens of thousands of reductions in factories that showed growth rates a few years ago, which were bringing to the Ukrainian economy a few years ago, plus both income and export revenues. As far as foreign investment is concerned. Now all foreign investments, those that didn't burn down from this government and were in Cyprus, are coming to Ukraine exclusively from off-shore zones. And so, by the way, off-shore zones come out. Those foreign investors who really want Ukraine's development, those foreign investors that have invested in Ukrainian banks since 2005, invested in the Ukrainian agro-industry sector, invested in the Ukrainian economy, actually, developing, escaping. In just last year, the major investment countries, starting in Germany and ending in Austria, have made two billion US dollars out of Ukraine for real and real investment. They made it clear that we cannot work in a country where corruption is led by the government and the president, we cannot work in a country where the courts, the police and the prosecution are business organizations, they are institutions that suckle the country, not institutions that should protect honour, dignity, law, justice and property rights. The economic picture is terrible today, and the figures that speak of economic growth say only one thing: this government has no vision of economic development or plan. And that's why in the last three years the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has never introduced a government action programme to Parliament. This is a direct violation of the Constitution. And this government has no right to perform its constitutional functions, because they violated the Ukrainian Constitution and did not tell the very important people of Ukraine what they would do and how they would do. How do these figures now reflect the fate of 45 million Ukrainians? After all, by numbers, we can forget how people in our country feel. Because it's their responsibility, they've taken power, they've been given all the powers and powers of Viktor Yanukovich, of the Party of Regions, of this government, they've never been in any political power in twenty years, no one. They have used these powers solely for their own wealth, not for their own country. How does it feel now for those who hoped that life could be better? Consider: Nine out of ten Ukrainians who have a higher vocational education have declared that they want to leave the country. 60 percent of Ukrainian youths, and that's the most valuable thing in our country, said, "We don't want to live in this country, we don't see the future in this country. Because we see who's running this country." The unemployment rate in the last three years, if we had eight people in 2010 in one place, today is 11. Just as there were two million unemployed in times of crisis, so they remained. In recent months, the rate of growth in registered unemployment has reached 171,000. How can we now describe what people feel? They feel fear, they feel insecure, they don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. But they are confident that tomorrow will certainly not be better than today. And the main lesson of what this government is responsible for is not just the numbers, they are not just responsible for the economic indicators, they are responsible for the mismanagement of the government and Victor Janukovic, who are responsible for the fear and the hopelessness that has arisen in our country because of them. When a country thinks about how to find happiness abroad, we need to think about how to get people back into the country, how to give them a job, how to provide them with a future, and how to really bring about changes in the country. We're not just criticizing the opposition. We, as an opposition, have a very clear plan, a very clear plan of what to do in Ukraine, a very clear plan of what tasks are now facing the Ukrainian State, what decisions we need to make and where we need to move. We'd like to start with geopolitical choice first. This is a choice that will determine Ukraine’s future, not for decades, but for hundreds of years. Hundreds of years ago, 300 years ago, this choice was not made. And we say as an opposition about our choice: our choice is Ukraine, a member of the European Union, our choice is Ukraine and the European future. They often ask what is the best plan for the country. This plan is ready, this plan is already in writing, and this plan is initialled. It's a political association agreement and a free trade zone to be signed in Vilnius this year. And we, as opposition, insist on signing the treaty. As far as our positions are concerned, what the Ukrainian economy demands today. Of course, first of all, apart from the signing of the agreement and what is stipulated in our agreement with the European Union, it's not just a fight, it's a war against corruption. You know, I just had the Economist magazine in my eyes, and there was an article about Ukraine. I'm sorry when such famous world publications say this about our country because of the people who are now in the government's bed. The following was written there. We, i.e. world economists, Nobel laureates, people who know what the world economy is and how it works, people who know what democracy is and what its value is, they write, "We're surprised that the Ukrainian government is stealing so much and there's still something in the budget." This is a general perception of the country today. And they added another phrase, "You know, it feels like Ukraine is a car in a fog that has no lights, no feet, no gps navigation, and no idea where it's going." As an opposition, we know the path to go, and we will take Ukraine in a European civilised way. Our jobs are in the fight against corruption, and we stress that no matter how much taxes are collected, no matter what the budget is, they're so talented that they won't even be able to see how they stretch the entire state budget. So there are two approaches to fighting corruption. The first to be proposed by the opposition. This is our anti-corruption package offered by three opposition factions. The creation of a national anti-corruption office, anti-corruption illustrations, income checks, and the expense of all officials. Adoption of the law on conflict of interest. But the adoption of these laws is limited. We must honestly and frankly realize that only if we carry out a serious reform of the administration system can we overcome corruption. Each tax collector feels like a king and God. He thinks he's from the Ukrainian he's supposed to be working for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u80	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u81	You can get a bribe from him, and this Ukrainian can keep an eye on him. Our administrative plan for change is, first of all, a reduction in not only the number of officials, but rather a reduction in the functions of officials for which these bureaucrats take bribes from each Ukrainian. Our task is to reduce the number of ministries and eliminate functions, where sometimes several ministries have the same function. Look at what kind of monsters they've created today -- they're family incomes, they're not government budget revenues. And that's why our administrative reform needs to be carried out in the country, which involves reducing the number of ministries, reducing the impact of government officials, and reducing the functions of those ministries that have become a bribe, not a place for economic development. The other one. As far as the court is concerned. The Ukrainian Court is the place where any court decision can be obtained only by an envelope, by an envelope, and by the fact that the person who wants a legal decision of the court cannot be relied upon by law, by law, by justice, by bribe or by ties alone. Our second task is to build an honest and fair judiciary. As an opposition, we have passed a bill to Parliament to restore the status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. According to the Constitution, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is, was and should be the highest court in Ukraine. The appointment of judges should provide for solely independent judges. And in our legal package, there's this bill, it's going to be accepted. As for the economy, there is another cancer in the economy. These are monopolies. Demonopolization of the Ukrainian economy is a key task for competition in Ukraine. This is a key task for a few people not to control all key sectors of the Ukrainian economy. There's nowhere to go now for a small entrepreneur, no small business. Only big business remains and shareholders of this big business are solely shareholders of the factions of the Party of the Regions. You've privatized the country. You think you can privatize it. Ukraine's shareholders will not be a Party of Regions! Only the people of Ukraine own this state. And only he will determine who and how he will rule in the Ukrainian state. [[Applause]] A specific issue regarding the Tax Code. And I'm going to separate myself from the reforms. The tax code was really accepted. But we think that the Tax Code should essentially not be a fiscal mechanism for hitting a cow in the form of a Ukrainian economy that barely stands on its feet. Ukraine needs a code of economic growth! And the task of the Tax Code is not in terms of tax collection, but in promoting economic development. First, you have to give yourself a chance to earn money. And then you can tax it. Therefore, our package provides for the adoption of a code of economic growth. More than a hundred different kinds of taxes and congregations should be eliminated! Seven basic taxes should be accepted in Ukraine. The simpler the tax system, the harder it is to bypass it on one side, and the easier it is for a simple entrepreneur to work. We realize that the destruction of small and medium-sized businesses is not just the economic objective of this power. We realize that destroying small and medium-sized businesses is a political goal. This is what the Bolsheviks did when they first announced the NEP and then destroyed those people who had a small business that had a small area that had little earnings. Because they represented a danger to the regime. Now the person who can make money on himself, the person who can feed himself, and the person who has a chat in his head, they pose a danger to them. So our task is to adopt the code of economic growth, and it's a complete and total demonization of the Ukrainian economy. As far as the offshore question is concerned. I think you know very well about the numbers that have been exported to offshore areas for the past two years. Consider: Official statistics show that 72 billion U.S. dollars have been exported to offshore areas in Ukraine. These are two annual budgets. Two annual budgets are put into areas where accounts are held by today’s government officials, where accounts are held by their families, where accounts are held by those who have robbed the people of Ukraine. So our task is not just to break double taxation agreements with offshore areas, but through the National Anti-Corruption Committee, to get to every account, to every official who stole money from the country, to return money to the country, and to bring corrupt people to criminal responsibility. It's our job. [[Applause]] We need to implement a series of social programs. Some might say that the opposition is populism because there is no money. And that's a lie. There's money. The money is to keep the President – 1.2 million dollars costs 1 day to keep Viktor Janukovic. The money is to raise expenses for the Attorney General's Office, for the Ukrainian Security Service for the law enforcement system, for the Cabinet of Ministers, for the Supreme Council. In the last three years, the budget totalled nearly 30 billion dollars for government expenditure. 30 billion who could be retired, paid, and developed in Ukraine. So our job is not to live in debt. Reducing government spending, reducing government debt, starting up the economy, and making it possible for us to carry out our social agenda with the money we earn. In our social program, four points. Of course, our political opponents have already carried out several social reforms. I'll start with a sad pension reform. You remember how shaky there was in the Parliamentary Hall that all pensioners would be happy would give everyone a big pension. And rising retirement doesn't in any way affect the fact that our women and men simply don't live to the retirement age. We believe that this pension reform has brought nothing. In addition, the first is the increase in retirement age, the second is the increase in retirement and the third is the rise in pension deficits, and the fourth is a real decline in purchasing power for each Ukrainian pensioner. Our job is to abolish pension reform. And we're going to do it either in opposition or in the power that we're going to come to after the election. [[Applause]] In our retirement reform package, which was implemented by Ludmila Denisov and worked by our opposition partners. There are a number of issues related to the restoration of justice in pensioning. And here, separately, it should point out that the procedure for the modernisation of pensions, namely the increase in the pension size not only for the inflation index, but for the real cost of life, should be adopted in this Supreme Council of Ukraine. Workplaces. We have noted separately that Ukraine is suffering from unemployment. Think, by the way, about investment. You know, honourable members of Parliament, who is now the largest investor in the Ukrainian economy? Labour migrants. Seven billion dollars is the people who fled this government, the people who fled this power, went abroad. Seven billion dollars has been counted by our employees from abroad to Ukraine. Our key task is to get these people a decent job, a decent salary, and a worthy future here in Ukraine. So besides the code of economic growth, there's a job creation program. It will run the economy, allow people to work and not just to work, but to earn. And a separate question that concerns direct wages. Think, on the average salary in Ukraine at 2,600 dollars, how much do you think every Ukrainian spends on maintaining the state and power? Half the money we make, 50 percent of our person who's made an honest living is paying taxes, taxes to the congregations, any other payments to keep those who are in this bed. And another 50 percent, these people are eating. Our people, even in that case, if they have a job, they don't have the opportunity to live, they don't have anything to live for. The number of poverty in Ukraine is three quarters, 7 out of 10 Ukrainians are on the poverty line. This is the 45 million-dollar Ukrainian state, which is the neighbour of the great European Union, which has all the land that has the resources that have the most important water, has wise and hardworking people. He has such a free government and a free president who must be retired!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u82	Arseny Petrovich, how many more minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u83	You'll see how much, you'll see. Dear Members of Parliament, we should not forget not only the jobs but also the training of our young people to get a decent future in Ukraine, in order to get a decent knowledge, in order to be able to take advantage of their education, using their knowledge and the gains they have received, either in higher education or in secondary school, to have a decent job and to have a decent future. As an opposition, we introduced the Higher Education Act to Parliament. Look, no Ukrainian U.S. today is found in either a hundred or five hundred or a thousand, even the world’s leading U.S. It's a country that has an intelligence, it's a country that has knowledge, it's a country that has to show the brightest and best paces of both economic growth and intellectual potential growth. We're not just rearing, we're not even in the world charts, we're not even in the world's indexes. So we think that the education system needs not just radical changes, but immediate and radical changes, to start with a kindergarten, a kindergarten. I recently returned from Winnica and Žitomir, Lviv and Ternopola, where women come in and say they have to pay a thousand dollars to take the baby into the kindergarten. And only four out of ten Ukrainian children can and have the opportunity to enter the kindergarten. What kind of education can we give, how can we prepare our young people, our highest value, if we don't have a basic first level of education and personal education? Thus, the restoration of a network of kindergartens and financing, first of all, of teachers who do not think for a thousand dollars about how to raise a child and who think about how to live their family. This is in spite of the fact that the government's assets have increased in the last year, it's only official, 300 percent. School. School and higher education, they should not simply give knowledge. Schools and higher education should immediately link knowledge and the labour market. And that's why the adoption of our Higher Education Bill will allow you not to spend billions of dollars on human production, but rather our young people, who, along with a certificate or a certificate of higher education, will get a certificate of entry on the unemployed market. A particular question about medicine that has been considered here. One of the most corrupt systems and systems that are corrupt not only financially but primarily moral corruption. It's cynicism when people who don't have drugs to fight oncology, when people who don't have drugs to fight diabetes when people have TB, it's in a country that's in the center of Europe where people can't cure basic diseases. At the same time, the government and the Ministry have purchased tens of times more expensive medicines and medical services. We believe that a serious change should take place in the country, not just a change, but a review of the entire medical system. And the opposition insists on acceptance: firstly, the state-guaranteed level of provision of medical services. The Ukrainian Constitution was not repealed. The billions of expenses incurred in maintaining the health care system should not be divisive but should be directed to a specific list of diseases that the State should guarantee. We advocate the introduction of state insurance as a second level, because look what's happening to our population? The number -- we age from year to year, we die, and we get smaller and smaller. In the last two years alone, 500,000 people have died, 500 thousand less than the population of Ukraine. Therefore, medical reform and real changes in the social sphere are our tasks as opposition. In particular, I would like to point out the infrastructure. That infrastructure that seemed to have been built so well during the Euro-2012. In the Euro - 2012 period, $10 billion was spent. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten billion United States dollars, half of which have been stolen, and half of these funds have gone to those objects that are not being exploited today. So we're creating a special investigation commission that investigates all the facts of the abuse, the use of state funds for so-called infrastructure, because it's clear that you've been building not infrastructure in Ukraine, but you've been building your houses: who has Cyprus, who has France, who has Germany. And that's going to be the gain of the Ukrainian people, and we're going to export our children there to see how the state budget was being stolen. Dear members of the opposition! Those who represent the government and the president who doesn't. Today, we do not simply vote for the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we realize that this government, which corrupts a country that corrupts politicians, will hold on to the last in order to stay in a chair every day, whether it's the prime minister or the president, or it's still robbing the country. But this vote is going to be a showcase. It's going to be shown because we're going to see what is the real level of support in this government. The one who votes against the decision is the one who supports: this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the one who supports unemployment, the one who supports corruption, the one who supports a higher retirement age, the one who supports the closure of 900 schools, the one who supports closed 300 hospitals, the one who supports 894 minimum pensions, the one who supports lawlessness, corruption and hopelessness in our country. We're clearly saying that we're going to implement our plan, we know what to do, we know how to do it, and we're going to do it. And that is why our requirement in this Parliamentary Hall is the resignation of the government of Yanukovic-Azarov. And on May 18th, on European Day, the opposition will call for President Yanukovic's resignation as the person who is responsible for everything that is happening in the country today. [[Applause]] Dear Members of Parliament, we will show them how to run the country. We will show them what Ukraine will be like in the near future. Know that this vote is not an opposition vote, more than half of the Ukrainians voted in favour of us, more than 50 percent of the Ukrainians voted in favour of a proportional system. Janukovič and Azarov's resignation is more than half of Ukraine's demand. And that is what will happen! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Ten minutes. People's deputies please sign up. Party of regions, National Deputy Missik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u85	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u86	You know, if you spoke in another country, you could believe it. And listening to you is, you know, the rain of the days of Yushchenko-Tymishenko. This is a program that you cheated on millions of people in 2004 at Maidan, and with this program in power for five years -- from 2005 to 2010 -- you failed at all. And that's why I have a question for you, Mr. Reporter, why you didn't do the basic thing, being in power for five years, because you were in all the high positions in this state, why we had to freeze the minimum pension for two years, and we were forced to knock it out in the stands, why you had to freeze the payments in the budget area for two years, why you didn't do anything to settle any of the debts you took from the International Monetary Fund, and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u87	Thank you for the very meaningful question from the Party of Regions. Because, in principle, the meaning of all your questions over the last three years is only one thing: it's all "foreigners." [[Applause]] You are, in principle, the government that is the predecessor. That's the first one. The other one. You know, you mentioned Julia Timoshenko and I can't help but mention it here. You're so cowardly that you put her in jail as your main political opponent. That is why our political requirement is now: the release of Julia Tymoshenko, her return to political life! [[Applause]] And I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u88	And finally, Your Honor, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u89	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u90	And finally. Not too soon when Julia Timoshenko is in this Parliamentary Hall, and the opposition is only in the minority, but in the majority, both in the President's chair, and in the Parliamentary chair, and in the government chair, and who will carry out these reforms that we've talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u91	The Fatherland faction, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland, united opposition. Dear Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, you know the attitude of this government towards the local authorities, you know that you left only a small piece of the budget in place -- about one quarter, even though you always financed about 50 percent. But I wonder if this government is capable of taking such a courageous step as to allow the Chinese to choose their power, not to manipulate legislation, not to use the selling Constitutional Court, but to let the Chinese choose their authority? And the figure of today's head of government, who is now in charge of Kiev, showed what he's capable of, showed how to run during snowfalls, floods, and so on. He's given 8 billion or 6 billion dollars with ease today, otherwise city money, so do you think this government today is capable of taking a courageous step: holding elections in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. The first question you have is how this government divides money between regions. I'd like to go to the Regional Party. After you've been running the country for three years, you probably have to rename the party, not the Party of Regions, but the Party of Region Destruction, because you destroyed the local self-government, you destroyed the local budgets, you share the funds only between those that are closer to you. Here's a slide of what you've divided Ukraine into castes: those who support and vote in favour of the Party of Regions get from the general boiler; and those who support democracy, those Ukrainians who don't support corruption, those Ukrainians who support the opposition, are somehow out of state budget funding. We have our political reform, which we will necessarily stop at. But now, answering questions about the city of Kiev. You remember when they told us before the election that they were a bunch of professionals. You can't clean up the snow in Kiev, and you're in charge!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u94	It's Vitaly Klitschka, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u95	Since I have a question for another reporter, I would like to pass on the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u96	Please, Oksani Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u97	Thank you very much. Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you have rightly said that the main investors in Ukraine today are the employees -- the people who take on the responsibility of authority today and provide investment in Ukraine. Instead, all investors today, foreign investors are making investments out of Ukraine today. And even governments in developed economies have decided to withdraw their guarantees and withdraw their investments from Ukraine. Why is this happening? Because the whole business structure is monopolized by power, by corruption, because all business in Ukraine is debilitated by VAT non-return, by advance payments on income taxes and by pressure on wages. The Vitalia Klitschka faction introduced the bill, the factions of the faction, Bill 1182 when the sole social contribution was reduced. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u99	I would like to ask you, Arsenius Petrovich, do you support our initiative to reduce the pressure on people's wages and that the next government is obliged to start its work by creating conditions for legal work and decent pay for people's work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u100	Mrs. Oksana, you're right that this is where capital, real capital, foreign capital runs out of here. The only way to get him back is to set the rules of the game. It is for every investor to know that the court is not corrupt, that the court will defend his right to property, that tax is not an instrument of coercion, but a tax law enforcement tool. That the rules of the game do not change during the course of business and that this country, our country, in the case of the signing of an agreement on political association and economic integration with the European Union, will become similar to the high standards of Europe. And as for our joint plan, Mrs. Oksana, do you know what the best answer is? The best answer will be next. If we're like three opposition parties -- Fatherland, Freedom and Strike -- we're going to come out with the only change program in the country before the 2015 presidential election. And then victory after us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u101	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Kudra's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u102	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Kudra, Kirovogradjina, Alexandria Sir, you're welcome! Your deputy from your Zhivago faction owed the coal industry of Alexandria millions of dollars on wages. First question. Tell us when he will pay off our ordinary miners the debt on salary if you are such a great leader. And the second. Dear colleagues! In this one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! There's just been a big plagiarism in this room. This reporter has fully outlined our anti-crisis program in Ukraine's output from the crisis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Think of something fresher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u103	Dishonorable Communists! I'm sending you to the address where you take the salary, the faction of the Party of Regions. Because he's in the faction of the Party of Regions. That's the first one. The other one. I was hoping the Communist Party would take the next one. We realized our mistake, well, yeah, there was a story. Sometime they gave us money, some place they helped us, and we voted for Azar. But now we will correct it and vote in favour of Azarov's resignation. So will you vote or not, respectable communists? You give me the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u104	Deputy Derevyanko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u105	Yury Derevyanco, 87th constituency, Ivano-Frankiv district, is nonfractional. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! An active government has been implementing so - called reforms for three years. Please tell me, can all the steps taken by the government in these three years really be considered reforms? When our parents retire or retire today, they are virtually unable to make ends meet in order to survive. They're going to have to spend as much money on drugs as they can, and they're going to need nothing more. The second question. The government recently reported that 98 percent of the roads were under construction. Do you know where 98 percent are? Where are the repairs where the roads are repaired? And the next. Today, the government manually manages the budget and the treasury blocks everyone, without exception, the funds for local councils. Please tell me, does this correspond to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine for today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. You know, when we asked about the resignation of the government, I specifically said that it was just political accounting. From them. That's where Mikola Janovich sits, see? Not the first year, by the way, in this chair. Victor Janukovic should be sitting here. Well, they're responsible for the country. They have to realize that this is a big country, 45 million people, with incredible possibilities, to show just real progress. This could be a model country in Europe. They've ruined this chance. And that's why they need to be retired, because they're free, irresponsible, and even the government's thieves.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u107	Sit down, Arseny Petrovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u108	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u109	The speech is given to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov of Ukraine. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Please calm down. Please, Mikola Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u110	Regrettably, honourable national deputies, instead of a meaningful analysis of the extremely difficult situation in the country, we have heard a banal set of phrases, accusations. In my opinion, it is. [[Applause]] does not adorn opposition or adorn Yatzenuk himself, who has worked in our governments repeatedly. [[Applause]] Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, thank you to all the national deputies who always express objective criticism at the government’s address. When there is a reasonable grain in the critic’s hand, we always accept it. And they are willing to cooperate if criticism is motivated by genuine concern for the interests of the people of Ukraine. Over the years of cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the past and today's convening of the government, in most cases, we have managed to find decisions that are agreed with the people's deputies, primarily aimed at stabilizing the socio-economic situation and the development of the country. We appreciate that very much. This is certainly a very important acquisition of both the constructive part of the constituency and the government. Together, we worked on a positive experience of reconciled social interests by discussing life-threatening sometimes acute problems with the public, with the people's deputies, with the expertise. That's how laws are defined for the development of the Tax State, the Customs, the Criminal Procedure Code and many other important documents. So our government is fundamentally set up for constructive cooperation and with the parliamentary majority, both with opposition and with civil society. Sadly, today we have seen that some forces need only make things as difficult as possible. They re-enter their favorite method of lying, demagogism and populism. But we've been through all this. Recall how the parliamentary elections took place last year. How many apocalyptic projections were there: that the bracelet would collapse, that the economy would stop, that prices would go up, and that goods would disappear. By doing so, they were only actively warmed up to the money speculators, the unscrupulous entrepreneurs, who turned the price booming and redecorated the pockets of the common people. I want to ask the people who are talking about the life of the oracles who are sitting in this room right now trying to suppress the horrors: where are your prophecies, to whom were they in their hands -- ordinary people or speculators? I want to ask, which one of you is responsible for the damage you've done to people? What responsibility will you bear for the provocative conclusions and predictions that have been made in this room today? And the citizens of Ukraine, I ask you to think about who is hurting for Ukraine's future and offering practical steps and who is hurting for their own political future and putting responsibility on others. The famous wing of truth: "Everything is known in comparison." Let's analyze and compare two periods in the history of an independent Ukraine: the one for which our government is responsible and the one for which they don't want to be held accountable by initiators of confidence in government, the one for which they were in power. The opposition leaders are talking about the collapse of the economy and the poverty of the people today, so what was it like 3 years ago, if the growth in gross domestic product is now almost 10 percent compared to 2009, the increase in industrial production -- about 18 percent, the increase in housing -- 1.7 times, the increase in trade -- 1.6 times, the real wage -- 1.4, how do you call what happened in 2008-2009? If the payroll fund increased 1.5 times compared to 2009, and the pension fund expenditure 1.4 times. If, over the course of three years, the government has increased budget salaries 18 times and 34 times the pension for the various categories of pensioners, where do you see the decline in income? By the way, we did the promotion gradually, step by step, and so we did not allow inflation, as it had been many times before. I am well aware that our people’s income is not yet enough to ensure their well - being. But step by step, we are doing everything we can to increase the income of our citizens. But what, then, is it that in 2009, all wages, pensions, social benefits were unlawfully frozen? Why do you not mention your responsibility for this attack on the people of Ukraine? Three years ago, the country was facing two major problems that led to socio-economic collapse and bankruptcy: the largest gas price in Europe, which threatened to stop the basic industries and impoverished populations, and the fall in income, stressing the real decline in income, the frozen social guarantees that caused the internal market to shrink. The efforts of the leaders of today’s opposition brought Ukraine into the gas cabal. The gas contract was a real betrayal of national interests, gentlemen of Liberty. We were forced to purchase 52 billion cubic metres of gas at the most expensive price in Europe, and in six months Ukraine was to become bankrupt. We are paying now, Mr. Yatsenuk, an amount equal to the deficit in the Pension Fund’s budget or the annual cost of health care. Thank you, we're overpaying it. [[Applause]] We were able to save the situation. Thanks to an agreement with Russia, a significant economy was gained in paying for the import gas. Thus, each year there were about five billion dollars left in the real economy. As a result, metallurgy and chemistry did not stop, and the state was able to stimulate its own gas production in a comprehensive way, to find alternative sources of supply and energy conservation. Could anyone imagine in the ninth year that Ukraine would be able to reduce its consumption of Russian gas? But the facts are stubborn. In the current year, we bought eight times less gas in Gazprom than we did a year ago. In 2012, we cut consumption, I find it hard to say, please, import gas by 12 billion cubes of gas, to 33 billion cubes. Compare this with the 52 billion that we were forced to do. First. We've upgraded the thermal power plants, transferred parts of the generators to domestic coal, and updated capacities of nuclear and hydroelectric power plants. By the way, the production of energy coal in 2012 increased by 4.2 million tons, increasing its own natural gas production. For the first time in our history of finding and extracting hydrocarbons, world leaders are involved in this sphere of Shell, Chevron, ExxonMobil. We have arranged and are delivering cheaper gas from the European spotting market. Construction of its own nuclear fuel plant has been started. From early 2010 to March 2013, the power of alternative energy, which produces electricity from renewable sources, increased fivefold. It's not the right thing to do on this stand! All of this is the result of practical steps that reduce the burden of Ukraine's energy dependence. The opposition leaders do not mention anyone who initiates an increase in energy tariffs for the population. May I remind you whose signature is under the obligation of the International Monetary Fund to increase population tariffs? Former Prime Minister Timoshenko. It is the Ukrainian people who owe you not only a cable price for gas, but also a constant demand by the IMF for Ukraine to pay the entire price. Instead, our government has made a decision not to translate excessive gas prices into citizens of Ukraine. The price of gas for the population remained constant. Stop lying. The price has remained constant for the last 32 months, electricity tariffs for 24 months. The vast majority of the population in Ukraine pay 724 dollars per thousand cubic metres for gas. To compare: The cost of gas in neighbouring Russia depends on the region, accounting for between 800 and 1358 dollars, consumers in Romania buy a thousand cubic metres of gas for 3,000,757, in Hungary for 4 thousand,236, Bulgaria for 7 thousand,433. As early as mid-2010, we reduced the cost of service in the LHC, up to 15 percent of the family budget for working citizens to 10 percent for disabled pensioners. Dear colleagues, since the beginning of the economic crisis, most of the countries on IMF recommendations have resorted to a budget economy, a tightening of social belts. We've chosen a different path in principle: increasing the income of the population, thanks to the growth of the internal market. So the first step of our government was to raise social standards. And for three years now, we have consistently pursued a policy of increasing people's well-being. It's a big and complicated job, and it's counter-populism, because the growth of citizens' wealth can only be based on economic development. Our opponents, trying to please their constituents, shed bitter tears that our elderly people receive low pensions that cannot be lived on. I wouldn't even argue if it wasn't for you. Once again, I recall whose signature is under Ukraine’s obligation to implement pension reform before the IMF. Whose? Again, Timoshenko. () [[Applause]] And the representatives of its political power have the audacity to blame this on us. What right do you have to cry about the difficult lives of old people? There is a former minister of social policy in this room in the government of Timoshenko. Where were your tears in 2009, when our pensioners received a pension of 556 dollars 60 copies? () [[Applause]] I'm not trying to draw a craze picture, and I'm not going to say that I'm getting paid today. They don't. But we are doing everything we can to ensure that our citizens receive more and are able to live with dignity in retirement. During our government's work, the average pension payout has increased 1.4 times and now amounts to 1 000 471 dollars. At the request of the Head of State last year, pensions were recalculated to nearly 13 million pensioners, and in 2012 580,000 former military personnel increased in three stages. On January 1, 2013, the average pension of military personnel increased to 2,350, or almost 600, a month more. Tell your electorate why in 2008-2009 the authorities tried not to notice the problem of pension insurance for the Chernobyl population? How did you cope with the fact that in 2009 the first group member of the CHAES accident had to survive for 1,200 dollars? How? Today he has no right to pay less than 2548. In November 2011, we made a decision that enabled the average pension for participants to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident to increase by nearly 2.2 times, to 4,280. Today, for example, the average pension of the first - group disabled is 5,170 gravel, disabled by the second group of 4,744, disabled by the third group of 3222. Our opponents often play on the problems of socially protected categories of citizens and blame the authorities for the fact that the size of social homes, allowances and other social benefits are too small. Where was their conscience when they were in power? The increase in social benefits, if any, was undervalued by inflation. For example, in 2009, the living minimum, which is the basis for the calculations, increased by only 5 percent, and reminding me that inflation was twice as high as 12.3. Our government for 2010-2013 has increased its living minimum 15 times in a row. This year it's 1.7 times more than it was in 2009. Why, in 2008, when the maximum amount of care for a child was only 316 dollars a month, did that suit you? We thought it was wrong, and without too much noise, we almost quadrupled these payments. We have 1.6 times increased the maximum amount of child support for single mothers. Payments at the birth of a child during this period increased by 2.4 times. Perhaps the former minister of social policy and her deputy, now a staunch opposition, showed a unique concern when the size of government social assistance to poor families was as high as 188 a month in 2009. Where is your conscience? [[Applause]] We have increased this cost by five times for children living in low - income families, which has been increased by 2.6 times. Who prevented you from doing this? Crisis? So now the crisis, it's gone nowhere. During the period 2010-2013, the government increased the level of state social assistance for disabled people from the first group's childhood by 1.8 times, and the disabled from the second and third groups by 1.6 times. With you, the size of government aid for the care of the first or second group was less than 70 dollars a month. Have you forgotten about that? [[Applause]] So let me remind you. How could this money exist, and what was the State’s concern for people? We've increased this aid 18 times. Now people get one thousand 147 dollars and it's going to keep getting higher. I would like to point out in particular that the steps taken by the government in the area of social protection are not a mechanical increase in social benefits, it is primarily the elimination of injustice and the improvement of the quality of social services and their targeting. While certain politicians take care of orphans and children who are left without parental care, we work to provide them with family comfort. 2.4 have increased the amount of assistance in adopting a child. One thousand,644 new foster families have been established since 2010, and 286 new foster homes have been created. In all, 12,000 children are raised in foster families and foster homes. In recent years, the cost of financial support for foster families and children’s homes has increased by an average of 30 percent annually. Or another: The problem of providing special needs for prosthetics and wheelchairs was extremely acute. During 2010-2012, 385.6 thousand prosthetic or orthopedic products and more than 70,000 carts were issued. We've secured everyone. Who, on September 1, 2012, acquired the right to obtain prosthetics and wheelchairs. The amount of financial assistance paid to war veterans by May 5 each year has been increased. Yes, if in 2009 the first-group war invalid received 500 dollars, in 2013 it was 2 thousand 415 dollars. The fourth year in a row provides free housing for war invalids. Over the last three years, more than 3,000 disabled persons have been provided with cars. I want to ask you, why weren't there such practical things in 2008-2009? What was your problem then? Our opponents shed crocodile tears about the low wages in the country. I agree that our goal is much more people's income. Not only do we shed tears but we make decisions about increasing our income. I agree that wages are rising not as fast as I would like to, but it is difficult to deny that the income of the population and the wages of the work after a sharp fall in 2008-2009 have increased steadily. Compare: In December 2012, the average wage was almost 3,000 400, and in 2009 it was only 1,000 900. The opposition still claims that nothing has been done. But four and a half million working Ukrainians did not forget that in December 2009 they received only less than one and a half thousand dollars. Over the course of three years, real inflation wage has increased by 37 percent, and our citizens' savings in banks have increased -- think about that! - 171 billion dollars. Government and year after year consistently raises salaries in the budget area. After taking office in March 2010, the government first adopted a decree to increase the salary of a first-rate worker. As a result, the increase was calculated as of January 1, 2010. Total tariffs increased 18 times in a row. And over the years, this work continued, despite the high debt burden on the cable price budget for imported gas, the high oil prices, the fluctuation in demand for traditional Ukrainian exports. On March 27, 2013, the government adopted the latest decision to increase the wage for work in the budget area. I would like to draw attention to another important aspect. At the beginning of my cadence in the government in March 2010, the negative effects of ignoring the authority of teachers, doctors, military, and so forth had to be fully felt. Along with the increase in salaries over the period 2010-2013, we adopted decisions aimed at enhancing the prestige of work in the budget area and strengthening qualified personnel. The list of decisions is quite broad, so I'll give you the most resonant. In 2010 it was established: assistance to public and municipal health care workers; material assistance to address domestic issues; monthly salaries for military personnel who cover the positions of the Air Force and the Navy; an allowance of 15 per cent on special terms for doctors, younger medical personnel who work in boarding-houses for senior citizens, boarding-houses. A 20 - percent increase was made in the provision of military personnel, contractors, and military personnel. By the way, in 2010, the government started paying the allowances that the previous government had just promised, for all teachers, teachers and teachers of the schools, 20 percent of the salary. For librarians, 50 percent. Medical workers have a benefit of 10-30 percent of their salary. In 2011, between 30 and 60 percent of all health - care workers who provide medical care to patients with tuberculosis increased their salary and their allowance for continuous work. Remuneration allowances have been set for between 10 and 30 percent of the official salary for individual categories of social protection workers. Annual health care to medical, pharmaceutical, and medical workers One-time targeted financial assistance at a minimum wage of 5 times for graduates of medical and pharmaceutical universities who have shown a desire to work in rural areas. Among the decisions taken this year are the establishment of health care and annual material assistance to address socio-economic issues for health workers. Speciality allowances of up to 20 percent of the official salary, with an increase in the special working conditions of up to 20 percent of the official salary. And the payment of material assistance to social and household matters to health care professionals in the emergency care system. A decision has been taken to step up the monthly additional remuneration for the military forces. In particular, from 1 April 2013 to 20 percent, from 1 September to 40 percent, from 1 January 2014 to 60 percent, from 1 April 2014 to 80 percent, and from 1 July 2014 to monthly. The main thing is that this promotion is organized on a systematic basis, not an election! All of this is economically sound. Our opponents do not regret strong words to convince us that business is being destroyed in Ukraine. I'd like to ask the business advocates in writing, would you call one decision, even one decision in 2008-2009, which would practically improve the business conditions in Ukraine? There were no such decisions. Instead, business is still cursing the authorities for the destruction of investments, the illegal breakup of contracts, the artificial bankruptcy of banks, the loss of investments, and the devalue of the national currency twice. It is our government that is making a systematic transformation into tax, regulatory, investment spheres. Every change is difficult. He faces opposition and bureaucracy from private owners who run business uncivilized. But change is taking place! It's an extensive space for business activity, free from government interference. Taxes and congregations have been cut in half over the years, from 43 to 23, basic taxes have been significantly reduced, from 25 to 17 percent, the value added tax from the current 20 in 2014 will be reduced to 17. A system of tax incentives has been put in place to modernize production, introduce energy-saving and energy-efficient technologies. Despite the spread of myths about the pressures of small businesses, the actual number of simplifications at the beginning of this year has increased by more than 300,000. Customs procedures are greatly simplified. For example, the legal deadlines for customs handling goods have been reduced by 10 times since 2010. The number of documents filed with the customs declaration has been reduced. Now there are only three. Nearly a third of the reduced number of commercial activities that are subject to licensing. The country went to the only window of registration and issuance of documents of a permissive nature. Entrepreneurship will be completely freed from unplanned and unwarranted tests. Revolutionary simplification took place in the area of access to electricity and gas networks. It's just part of what's done. We have taken all these steps to overcome the opposition, because in principle, only the expansion of economic freedom will allow the country to endure in extremely critical conditions. Of course, this is far from over. The head of state rightly criticizes officials for making changes in the area of enterprise freedom slower than we planned. But we are firmly set to complete deregulation, because it is up to us to fight corruption. Realizing the scale and antiquatedness of corruption risks, we began to systematically overcome them. Laws have been adopted to combat corruption, declare the income and expense of government officials, public procurement, and access to public information. All candidates for public service posts are subject to a special inspection. Yes, during 2010 - 2012, about 10,000 people were brought to criminal responsibility, twice as many as in previous years. Has anyone ever thought that when the opposition oppresses the hysteria of corruption, they use all the facts and examples that have been actually revealed by the government and investigated by the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs? These facts show not only the extent of corruption but the extent to which it can be overcome. But we realize that there is still work to be done. And here's another question for me. Rather than even the opponents, it is the citizens who are trying to block their minds by talking about what seems to be an economic failure and corruption. If everything goes wrong, why don't you explain why we increased our pension payments by 83 billion a year? Wages are 193 billion a year. Together, I emphasize, the brain should be, together -- it exceeded the expenditure of the state budget in 2009. What did you do then?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] There is no logic in the demagogies of opposition. We have expanded the largest infrastructure building in the history of Ukraine and we continue it. Politicians change, and stadiums, bridges, airports, solutions, roads, schools, medical centers will serve people. In 2011-2012, the government budget's capital expenditure was three times higher than in 2009. And in these very difficult crisis years, we have involved hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian workers and hundreds of domestic enterprises in doing these jobs. There was a deep reconstruction of four international airports. In Kiev, five new subway stations were put into operation. A railway road bridge across the Dnipro River was put into operation. There's an open movement on the roadway of Kiev-Chop, Zitomirsky and Ravensky. Renovated Kiev-Kovel-Yagotin roads. During 2010 - 2012, 4,000 miles [4.6 thousand km] of roads were put into service or three times that of previous years. Is that a lot or a lot? Clearly, it is not enough. That is, if the government of Ukraine had not been forced by Timoshenko to overpay Russia for natural gas, we could build and capitalize three times as many roads as we do now. And to the extent that schools and hospitals have been built, our opponents do not see it, and people are forced to ignore it. That's what I'm going to report. Opposition politicians suggest that our government only does what it does to close schools. That's not true. A certain optimisation of the network of schools where there are not enough students cannot be compared to 2008-2009 when 231 schools were abolished. In fact, the government from the first days of work has focused on restoring the infrastructure of preschool schools. Over the course of three years, 74 new modern schools have been put into operation, and 6,400 public education institutions have been rehabilitated. From 2010 to 2013, 1,345 preschools were opened where they had been waiting for decades. The Head of State assigned the government the task of ensuring that 85 percent of the children were enrolled in preschool facilities. And that's going to be done. The school bus program is being implemented at a high rate. I would like to remind you that this program was launched in 2004 by the current President of Ukraine, Janukovic. During 2010 - 2012, 1,579 buses — two thirds of all buses purchased throughout the program — were purchased. In 2013, we plan to buy and place 400 more buses to school. Computerization of schools continues, and in 2012 alone, Ukrainian schoolchildren received 23,000 computers equipped with about 3,000 computer classes. In addition, the government has opened up a nationwide construction and reconstruction of medical facilities from regional to highly specialized clinics and medical centres. During 2010-1012, 240 health facilities have been reconstructed, renovated and constructed, which have never been done or done. In 2011 - 2012, eight prenatal centers were opened, which had not been in Ukraine at all. Among the highly specialized medical subjects of the world class in Ukraine, we can now call the Centre using PET technology, the first children's centre of clinical toxicology, intensive and efferent therapy. In 2011, a new surgical body of the National Cancer Institute was launched with the medical technology of the Center for Infectious Diseases, a reconstruction was carried out and is equipped with the modern medical technology of the Ukrainian Scientific and Practical Centre for Endocrine Surgery, Endocrine Organ and Tissue Transplantation. A new building of the Ohmatdit Children’s Hospital is being built with the Center for Oncohematology and Bone marrow Transplantation, which will allow for the first time in Ukraine to provide health care to children with cancer - related diseases with world standards. I've only called you individual objects, and we're going to continue this work. Because the state of health in the country does not satisfy anyone. Unlike the opposition, we don't vote for it, but the area by area, the area by area, we make medicine better and more accessible. Who prevented today’s opposition from doing the same? In three years, about 2,000 medical vehicles were transferred to medical facilities. Another myth that our government is being plagued by is the lack of attention to culture. But the facts show otherwise. For example, in 2012, the amount of funding for the culture sector from the state budget was 1.8 times higher than in 2009. In general, 420 cultural objects have been put into service for the office of our government after repair, reconstruction, and construction. This is seven times more than it was in previous years. During 2010 - 2012, important objects such as the National Academy Dramatic Theatre John Frank, the Kirovograd Academy of Ukrainian Theatre, a large-scale reconstruction and the opening of a new exhibition by Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, were put into operation. Let me remind you that during 2008-2009, no such facility has been put into operation. Another example. Between 2010 and 2012, 100 films were made on government funds, 87 of them in 2012, 7.6 times more than in previous years. In 2012, for the first time in five years, the government had secured the purchase of Ukrainian books to fill public libraries, including over 400,000 copies and publications for rural people. In 2012, for the first time in decades, government support enabled the production of books in Ukraine to reach 1.36 copies per capita. In the last two years, nearly double the funding of the production of books has been increased under government procurement under the Ukrainian Book program. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Today, in view of the work I have done, I do not summarize, but I say that much more needs to be done. Perfect. We need a big European country, our country. This requires considerable resources, meaningful will. Thus came the Economic Development Revitalization Program, which was adopted on February 27, this year by the Cabinet of Ministers. Could she have shown up when we started work? Objectively, no. Because at the time we counted the cash for gas, wages, and pensions. It was hard to imagine that the state would be able to implement a 450 - billion - dollar program. Then the tax system did not stimulate development, the regulated economy would not open up to business initiatives, the banks could barely survive. We could not defend our interests in the external markets, that is, only the transformations that the government has made in the last three years have created a foundation for an ambitious program of Ukraine's new industrialization. Today, the government has given practical mechanisms to the real economy, enhancing the development of priority sectors for Ukraine is primarily the area of the APC. First. We're going to double a fraction of the country's agricultural production. For these and other projects, government guarantees amount to 5 billion dollars. I'll add that state support will create conditions for the successful operation of more than 120 engineering and metallurgical enterprises. The other one. We aim to increase domestic and agricultural output by 25 percent in the internal market by 2014. To this end, 153 animal complexes will be built and modernized for two years, and the area of highly productive heat farms will double. Third. We're going to increase the drinking weight of the finished product in the structure of exports of Ukrainian agro-products. Metallurgy remains one of the leading domestic expert sectors. First of all, there's going to be a reorientation to the internal market, infrastructure building, modernization of the JCZ, housing and industrial construction, development of high-speed railways, transport agriculture, shipbuilding, modernization of energy, restoration of shipbuilding, and demand for three million tons of metal production. Secondly, new modern manufacturing capacities will be created and the old will be modernized in the direction of production of finished products with high and added value. The greatest potential in terms of investment in the future is high-tech. First of all, it's about the aerospace industries. We have to go to a series of productions of at least 50 airplanes a year. And yesterday we had our first serial 158. Give it up! () [[Applause]] These are our achievements! The new level also comes up with Ukrainian-space rockets. The economic activation program will enable the next time, at least one and a half times, to increase the production volume of rocket space technology. Ukraine's participation in the "Antares" projects of Brazil's Alkantar Cosmodromes, the creation of the Cyclone-4 missile complex and the national satellite system will ensure the long-term loading of enterprises, the exit to new markets, and the preservation of more than 10,000 high-paid jobs. The export volumes of domestic scientific production will increase by 20 percent annually. In the rail engineering sector, a project will be implemented on the Krukov train construction plant of inter-regional two-system electric trains at a speed of 160 kilometres per hour. The tax incentive for the software industry will accelerate the growth rate of the industry to 40-45 per cent annually and create 30,000 additional jobs, increase revenue to the State budget and non-budgetary funds by 10 billion dollars, as well as annual arrivals of an additional 10 billion dollars from the export of software industry. The programme will also develop a series of important innovation projects in the field of medical technology that aim at creating high-tech production and at the same time replace imports with cheaper and quality Ukrainian analogues. A number of innovative projects envisaged by the program will greatly increase energy efficiency. A number of projects are being implemented from the modernization of port infrastructure, including the construction of access channels to the South and Illív Sea Trade Port seaports, the reconstruction of the Feodosi Seaport docks, the creation of a deep-sea navigational river Danube Black Sea on the Ukrainian delta area. I can't count all the projects, all the possibilities in the economic revitalization program. All I'm going to stress is that the government will support business initiatives in every way, protect economic freedom and ensure working conditions in the Ukrainian market. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! In many ways, the success of transformations depends on the degree to which all branches of authority work in harmony. Of course, in 2010, it would have been much harder for us to get the country out of the divide, where it was if the work of the President, then Parliament and the government were not done together, it was very important for the state, for its citizens. Where there's no work done, there's no result. [[Applause]] I'm talking to everyone, you don't have to confuse Parliament with barricades, you have state policy with a rally. We all have to work hard for the great purpose of turning Ukraine into a modern state with high standards of living. We're ready for maximum compromises. Is there an alternative? I'm sure it's not. For 20 years, Ukraine’s independence has been in a situation of delayed systemic reforms and unexploited investments in economic and social modernization. It's like, year after year, putting off the capital repairs of the house, then from the foundation to the roof, everything rots, breaks, flows, wears off, from here, those accidents at businesses and in housing and utilities, ruined roads, and so on, everything that's so striking the country. It is not possible to freeze the transformation for another 20 years, hoping that it will somehow manage itself, not to settle itself, respected colleagues. The global economic crisis today eliminates weak, indecisive, disunited, hostile to one another, with political or ideological contradictions. In the meantime, others break out far ahead, conquering strong positions in the world market. I call for a demonstration to Ukraine and the world that we are able to get together for a great purpose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u111	Sit down, Nikolai Janovich. Thank you, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. Please sign up for factions. Please, Fatherland faction, Avakov. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u113	Please pass Sobolje on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u114	Three minutes. We have 15 minutes, three minutes for factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, television audiences! I realize that the moment of truth came today, for when we were 45 minutes listening to stories about the predecessors again. I just remember young Mikola Janovich, who was in this session hall as soon as possible. Who broke the budget committee and created the biggest corruption in the budget? Head of the Committee on Budgets, Mikola Janović Azarov Who broke the tax system and created the most corrupt system in the state? Head of the Tax Inspectorate, Mikola Janović Azarov Who ruined Ukraine's economy, let's say, in all positions: from the minister of finance to the Deputy Prime Minister, and now the Prime Minister? Mikola Janović Azarov. And now we're hearing stories about the predecessors? Mikola Janović, calm down! Finally report what you've done not for yourself, not for the Yanukovich family, not for the tens of oligarchs who are sitting here, what you've done for the country of Ukraine. What did we hear in those 45 minutes? You're talking about retirement and pay again? Mikola Janovich, did you last see any pensioners? Not with those pensioners who approach you and bring to you the heads of administration, but with the pensioners who live under your regime and your government? And now, essentially. Is this the Prime Minister's report? Yes, we should listen to how much he has raised his pension or salary. But the first thing you should have started was to analyze what structural reforms you've made in 17 years while you've been in power and, at least, over the last three years. You can't do that. We'll make it quick. First. You say you've given order in the tax system. Then why are the bills here again? But it's you who signed up in your own inability to offer to pay taxes to businesses, not by adding value, but by promissory notes, and also by getting direct profit from that. You've told us about reforming the key sector that you've led so much. tax inspection. You look at what it's become. You told us about the reforms you're going to make in the key directions. Why can't we listen to at least one of the reforms that have taken place in the country? That's why I think the moment of truth has come. No matter how many votes there will now be in this session hall, Ukrainian citizens have heard, seen, and now they know why the country was brought to this state by Azarov, Yanukovič, and representatives of the Party of the Regions. And the way out is one. There should have been, not your report, but a manifestation with due respect to the people of Ukraine, and that would have been the way out of the situation. You're in danger of retirement. If not today, it will be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u116	Party of regions. Anna Mikolayevna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Your calm, reasoned report once again convinced everyone how even the provocation of opposition could be turned into for the benefit of Ukraine and the authorities. Dear Mikola Janovich! You just have to tell people more often what the Ukrainian government really does. I'm handing over the rest of my time to Anatolia Kinacha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking everyone to calm down. The report of the government in Parliament is a modern civilised practice. As a result, it is a unique opportunity for both the authorities and the opposition to determine the state of affairs in the state on the basis of a systematic high - professional analysis. And make decisions that suit the interests of the Ukrainian people and the state. Ukraine is certainly at a very serious stage of development as an independent state. Especially with regard to irreversible integration into the economic and political world system. And this is a competition that will only grow. And no automatic signature of a treaty in the event of failure of our Ukrainian homework will solve our problems. And as the world's experience confirms, a nation that is irreversibly integrated into a world that is unable to protect the internal market, to support the modern methods of a national producer, to form an effective export policy, to organize the interaction of all branches of government, such a state is sooner or later transformed into a product-consuming range or a cheap labour exporter. So I asked everyone to calm down, coming out of our shared responsibility. This is the first time. There are clearly major problems, starting with the structure of the economy, the productivity of the work, the energy efficiency of the product and so on, which have been accumulated for decades. But we have enormous potential and results, with thousands of people working, hundreds of thousands of people. It's also a cosmodrome in Alkantar, it's the same AN-158, it's also the modern trains of the Krukovsky Wagon that are already in use. [[B in m in s a l in]] And a lot more. Thus, it is the only way to deal with these problems. And clearly, the government is going the right way of importing, localizing production, energy security of the state, industrial policy, monetary and credit relations, which are the basis for development. And there's work to do. Protecting the rights of the owner, creating a favourable investment climate, is the only way to deal with problems and be a modern state. Therefore, honourable national MPs, from the fact that we are the authorities, the legislative authorities, and this is the responsibility of the Ukrainian people, I want to make a clear record of both the professional and the political position of the faction of the Party of the Regions. This program will be carried out independently of current economic personal or political ambitions, for it is in the interests of the Ukrainian people and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u120	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. People's deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u121	Dear voters, you know, once upon a time Winston Churchill, criticizing the British government, said that this was the most illogical and foolish assignment since his horse was assigned to Caligula. One can only imagine what Sir Winston would say about today's government, because from the horse of Caligula there was really much less evil for the country than that government. And it's obvious that they have to retire today. Moreover, all these people who are involved in corruption, in the destruction of Ukraine, should receive a wolf ticket in the profession and never again take up any position in life. I'm not going to repeat our colleague Arsenius Yatsenuk, who here listed all the figures that even a first-grader knows in the country, the horses know them, these figures, except for the current government, what's going on in the economy, in the social sphere, in the humanitarian sphere. And focus on the other. You know, for children's oncology, this government can't find 100 million dollars in a year, while the Ministry of Assembly and Income, which they already call "Mindhh," is about to die in this country, and in business, they find 7 billion dollars. And you have a hand that raises them, that money, without thinking about sick children. You know, at this time, when the minister of agrarian politics was tearing up a calf that's dying in our villages, why are you closing schools there? Why are you killing the infrastructure in those villages that we'll have no villages left with history in Ukraine until next year. I want to give you a few more examples. You know, every year, we have 40 grand in official unemployment. We're not talking about unofficial unemployment. The first job is going to be a disaster. You can only get a job if you're the President's son or the Minister's son - then you'll be taken to the National Police immediately. And if you're just a student pronoun, you can't even get an education here with these, now they're government questions about ours. I mean, it's the most private government. You're talking about Euro-integration rhetoric -- you're not letting MPs in. Today, the MPs were unable to get to work because your guards were pulling them away from the door. At least come here without a guard. We won't bite you. Communicate with the people calmly, please. I want to say that we actually have a government that has no contact with not only the opposition, it has no contact with its own people. You lose millions of votes every year in the base regions in Donetsk. You only communicate with prepared audiences. You need to rest these warm places of yours, retire, talk to normal people in Ukraine. And we, the honourable colleagues, first of all appeal to the Communists, appeal to the non-fractional MPs in their entirety to support the resignation of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u122	Freedom Union, Igor Miroshnichenko. National Deputy Sich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! The position of the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" is clear, principled and consistent. The Donetsk regional government in Kiev is to resign. To this day, as the law requires, this government has never presented a programme of action. Instead, it destroys the economic and national foundations of the state. It enslaves Ukrainian society. He sows international and interregional enmity. This government, at the expense of the entire Ukrainian society, lobbies the interests of a large business, which by definition is oligarchy, criminal, antisocial, and developed according to the laws of wild capitalism, which the civilized nations rejected back in the early 20th century. This is not surprising, for the Party of Regions itself, which is the political foundation of this government, is nothing more than an instrument of the Donetsk oligarchy criminal clan. This government is destroying small and medium-sized businesses, destroying them because it is defined as a national business. And it ruins because this business creates a middle class, and this business is the economic foundation of democracy. And this government, and this regime, are building a system of totalitarianism in our country and trying to get the most out of society. This government has destroyed the budget system, not only do they have nothing to downsize and pay to teachers and doctors, they don't even have anything to support their party anymore. And so instead of working and raising the economy, or at least adopting the law that proposed the All-U.S. Freedom to recover funds from offshore zones, they go back to the slump of the '90s and introduce bills. This government is highly antisocial: pension reform, the sad closing of schools, hospitals, music schools, and the failure to pay wages. This government is antinational and not only because Dmitri Tobacco has long been a symbol of the drowsy aggressive Ukrainianophobia but also because they exhibit their Moscow mentality over all other ethnic minorities in Ukraine. The time will come for you not only to be shown by the Ukrainian nation but also by all ethnic minorities in Ukraine. This government is criminal, it is antinational, it must resign!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u124	Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u125	Dear voters, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that during the 20 years of Ukraine's independence, with every new Government representing, unfortunately, only the oligarchs, the lives of Ukrainians are deteriorating and the economy is deteriorating. And on this background, only the number of oligarchs and their size is growing, and the Government of Azarov is unfortunately not an exception. Why? Because, like all previous Governments, this Government is placing the interests of oligarchic capital in Ukraine's economy at the forefront of the ongoing destructive processes. In fact, the country is constantly in a state of social default. Data show that crisis trends are increasing in the Ukrainian economy, more than enough. In particular, the decline in industrial production, agricultural production, the sharp increase in the negative trade balance, the increase in wages arrears, the progressive poverty of the population and the destruction of the intellectual potential of society and the scientific sphere. During the three years of the Government of Azar, the income gap between the richest and the poor has reached a gap of more than 40 times. Opposition and social tension have reached the highest point in years of independence. The answer is, of course, that there is no understanding of the prospects for the development of the State and that it has also affected all areas of our society of corruption. In February of this year, we Communists, requiring the specifics of systematic, anti-crisis action in the Government, warned that the next step would be to vote in favour of the resignation of the Government if the situation did not change. I wish to remind Nikola Janović, when it came to his election, he has personally promised us to solve the acute, standing, socio-economic problems. Unfortunately, the Government's anti-crisis programme has never been reflected in our work. They promised to address the issues of improving relations with the Russian Federation, joining the Customs Union, and the European Economic Community. In principle, the results of the Government's work have not changed. So today, the Company's faction, as it warned, will vote in favour of the Government's mistrust. I wish to address all Ukrainian citizens. Dear comrades, it's not the Prime Minister's personality, it's the oligarchic system itself. Any Government, while maintaining this system, will lead Ukraine to a deepening economic crisis, a decline in the standard of living of Ukrainians and a transformation of the country into a commodity income of the West. I'll point out, that's also true of oranges. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those who introduce a resolution on mistrust and those who are in power are representatives of one ruling oligarchy class. This class is divided into two parts, and the struggle for power, first and foremost, is exacerbated by the sharp decline in state wealth in what we have created as communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u127	We, the communists, demand a change in the political system, radical policy changes, and we would like you to know that, respectable voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u128	All right, I'm done here. Calm down. People’s deputies are enrolled in the committee’s performances. 15 minutes. Please report to the National Deputies. Please sign up and we'll finish. Fatherland, Odarchenko, National MP, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u130	I'm asking Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw attention to one aspect that was not discussed here during our discussion. In addition to the political evaluation of government activities, the most important assessment of government is always given by society in all countries. In spite of today's vote, it's clear that the last period has been a government that has no social legitimacy. And that's the scariest story. With Viktor Yanukovich’s arrival and the new team in charge of Ukraine today, people’s expectations reached 45 percent. Today, according to experts from Ukrainian optimists, there are 10-12 percent left that say that Ukraine is moving in the right direction. Today, the degree of trust in government in general and in government in particular is 10 to 15 percent. 75 percent of people in all regions of Ukraine, including the Donetsk region, do not trust the President and the Government. We have a catastrophic situation where even the good thing to start this government is that the apriors will not be accepted by society. Because the authorities cannot be in positions where three quarters of the population in all regions of Ukraine thinks it is corrupt and antinational. Nor should the President wait to consider this issue in the government, with all the sociological research, the government has long had to resign. There must be a President who should offer the government a programme of activities and logic in our lives. So the danger is that the government and the authorities have led the country to civil war. If you look at the social differentiation of society, you'll see that for the first time in tens of years in Ukraine, the lower middle class in Ukraine, today we have an order of one and a half, two percent of the people in charge and 60 percent in order, think about this figure, people who say they don't have money to wear. Today, in rural areas, up to 90 percent of people dress in secenchende. What improvements or achievements we hear about here!? Today, a social explosion can occur when the absolute majority of the poor, and only for reasons of social dissatisfaction, will come out and ask you which party you are and what authority, if you do not radically change the focus not on the theft of tenders, not on the theft of budgets, not on the export of money abroad, because we have a pro-Russian government, and money is exported to Austria, Switzerland, or England for their children. Thus, in independence from the vote, society gave an assessment to this anti - national government. Hopefully not today, so tomorrow Parliament will resign him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u132	Party of regions, National Deputy Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u133	Dear Head, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u134	Please, the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u135	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, Ukraine! We pass as a society and as a nation a great test. We have existed for 21 years as an independent state, and, unfortunately, society has never loved power in the state. There was a small period of inspiration during the Orange Revolution, but today, from the scene here, the political scene, there are those who led those oranges to power and who stood next to those who were then president and prime minister. The fiasco of your economic policy sees the whole society. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's why today, when we ask the judge who?"then you are as bad judges as those whom we very often view as bad judges in this room. [[Applause]] But now we want to look to our esteemed government: the venerable, the force of reform and the improvement of the country's situation only in cooperation. We're telling you today that the parliamentary majority is ready to lay the shoulders of the government. We're also willing to cooperate in reducing wage pressures, and we think this is question number one: reducing social contributions, the only social contribution. And let's work to make the whole business feel that not only does the value added tax and income tax go down, but also the hugest social burden in Europe on wages. And if we want business to get wages out of the shadows, we can't get through it without it. The second question that unites the entire Ukrainian society today is the support of national production. And it's right that there's a support program, but we want this process to be open, not to its own, but to everyone and to be supported by the state not only by big business, but by medium and small. And that's why we're again asking questions about government purchases, about admission to government procurement not only by large companies, but by medium and small companies, and that's the question that we have to solve. And the third. We are now saying that this year there will be renewed salaries in the budget area. We ask you to pay attention to the wages of social workers, they now have the smallest, lowest wage. We will support you. Go to Parliament. Today all the results, today were two, frankly, I think everyone will agree, not on emotion, but on reason, two very meaningful reports: this and the report of the Minister of Agriculture, it was professional and, in fact, thank you, and this is the report of the Minister. Prime Minister of Ukraine. We're moving right, but we're not moving properly. We need every minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u136	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u137	We need to do more and better every time, we're set up for it. Parliament works, God help us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u138	The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u139	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Committee on Cultural Affairs made a clear decision on the mistrust of the government of Azarov. Why? Because in culture, in the humanitarian sphere, there are a lot of improvements. Just some names. First "improvement." In the following year, if not stopped, almost all music schools will begin to shut down, and parents will have to pay three and a half dollars a month for teaching their children. What's not to improve? Of course, improvements. You have to give them that opportunity, I'm sure. Second improvement: The Culture Act. The tension is already reaching its limits. The government does not pay benefits for years of service, material aid, and other supplements because it says that one must be paid and the other should not be paid. Minfin will save money on artists, on all those who work in theaters, on libraries, because there is no money. Where's all the money? And they're in the service of clans, they're in the service of monopolies, they're in the service of everything that provides for this government, and they're providing purchases that stop trains in the country, like this sad-known Hyundai, even though today we're talking about some Krukov train. We only know about cars that stop and don't allow people to reach. A third improvement in culture. 15 museum directors were released: Sofia Kyivska Reserve, Kyewovo-Pecherska Lavra Reserve, Pereaslavsky Reserve, National Museum of Art. Whoever the government was putting in: the galleryrs, the models, the models, whoever was in charge, but not the professionals that the government was driving out of this area. Improvements? Well, for them, no improvement, and for people, no improvement. Four: construction. Monuments are financed, inventory and passporting — 0.4 percent of the need. Think about it! Why is this being done? In order not to be able to determine fully whether a monument is or is not a monument. And then what? And then there's the guest yard, and then there's the construction right next to Sofia Kyivsky, and then there's the land that has the historic buildings that go into private hands without trial or investigation. And the last improvement, the main one: Ukrainian language. It was at that time that a frontal attack and annihilation of the Ukrainian language began. In fact, this government professes, speaks Russian. Each second minister does not know the Ukrainian language and does not speak it, and the government apparatus passes on to Russian at all times. The same is true of ministries — essentially in this regard the fifth column of Russia, which introduces these imperial values rather than the values of the Ukrainian independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u141	The last and the key, respected colleagues from the Party of Regions. The government of Yanukovich-Azarov is retired!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u142	The Freedom Union. National MP Mikhalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Here today we have a report from the government, the government of Mikli Azarov. Who is this government? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right! It's a fascist government. Who is supporting him? Party of regions. What party is this? That's right, Fascist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well done! We've introduced ourselves. Thank you. My name is Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You're fascists. Nice to meet you. So, respectable citizens, we are now called fascists because we want to speak Ukrainian. Tomorrow you'll be called fascists because you want to get paid on time. The day after tomorrow, you will be charged with fascism for complaining of low pensions. Then you'll complain about school closings, kindergartens disappear, hospitals close. And these beautiful people will call you fascists. Yes, today we say that Ukraine is occupied. This is the regime of the Donetsk criminal occupation. In this regard, we don't mean the Donetsk miners, the metallurgists, the engineers, the workers, the teachers, and the doctors. We're talking about a big criminal capital. It is rightly said that capital has no nationality. But today, for some reason, all the money and all the power is not in the hands of the Ukrainians. Yeah, now they're freaking out, now it's time for their triumph. But we know very well what their triumph and being in power is going to be for an ordinary Ukrainian, whether he lives in Lugansk or Lviv. Over the past three years, they have destroyed 300 schools — the government of Azarov and the Party of Regions. Just last year, in manual mode, this Cabinet of Ministers redistributed 1 billion dollars of spending on development expenditure. This means unbuilt kindergartens, unrenovated roads, closed schools, closed hospitals. Just to get some government structure, some bureaucrats to fix offices, or set up a warm office chair. Also, society, we're talking about the fact that there's a debt in Ukraine today for salary payments -- 1 billion dollars. If tomorrow you, the honourable Ukrainians, in Pavlovrad, and in Pavlovgrad, in Poltava, or in Lviv, have nothing to buy bread for, ask Azarov why a billion dollars of your money earned today in their pockets?Oh, my God! This government needs a illustration. What do we mean by that term today? Where the Rusication, where the dispersion is going, criminalization is going! Because the current government team is doing what destroys everything in Ukraine, it's setting up a similar authoritarian model of power as in Russia, and it's led to power by real representatives of organized criminal groups. [[B in m in s a l in]] But, society, thank you for reminding me of who you are and reminding me of how to fight you. Take another chance, save your energy. You will need them in the near future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u144	The last speaker. Party of regions, 2 minutes, Jaroslav Suhi. And we'll make decisions. Please, please, please. All right, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u145	My dear friends! I have a dream! [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] In order for this to be the last meeting of the Supreme Council for me, the Supreme Council of Ukraine finally worked, finally the highest legislative body of Ukraine. I thought that coming to the Supreme Council of New Young Handsome Smart People with Unloved Persons, so to speak, would bring something new to the work of the Supreme Council, bring new constructive ideas, initiatives. Sadly, this was not what was supposed to happen. The potential of our present parliament, and especially this is today's discussion, unfortunately, goes into screaming, into violence, into strife, and passes over (I'm the firm opponent of all sorts of screams) into primitive sex, reporting, apples, who's sitting with, who's voting and what's like that. This is not the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, we've got an interesting plot going on. The main goal of the opposition is not to make alternative draft laws, not to make proposals and conclusions, but to try to get any attention. And as the creative ends, we've already heard about the courts, about the impeachments, about the resignations, about the uprisings, and then, you can see that there's going to be competitors in the Femen group. Those who draw attention to themselves show one part of the body, curiously, that the Führer who waved the handle here will show further attention to himself. [[Applause]] And I didn't hear a constructive statement from the opposition. But we know, the pensions are small, the wages are small, the support of the domestic manufacturer is frozen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u147	I'm asking the parliamentary minority not to get excited. Don't be nervous. You're not responsible for anything today. You are not responsible for anything, including the generous promises made to people during elections. Colleagues, and this is your privilege. It's beautiful. You've chosen such a fate. Take care of her. Your case is criticism, criticism and criticism. And our business is work. And that's what this is all about. [[Applause]] And in view of the fact that time is over, I'll tell you the words of Vasil Simonck: "And we, the parliamentary majority, meet peacefully and severely in the work and defense of slandering you and the stupid reproaches, the streams of crazy lies."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a non-faction room. I give you a minute, I give you a minute, I give you a minute, I give you Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, and we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u149	For the first time in my life, I'm speaking out of paper, "Dear Mikila Janovich, today you're just going to be sent to a standstill. And you have to go there with all the blood. Your Cabinet of Ministers is ineffective, ineffective. You led people to poverty. And when you talk about the economy, you're admiring the paperwork.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u150	Turn off the microphone, I said. Have a seat. Please turn on Lithuania's microphone. Please turn on Lithuania's microphone. Talk to me, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, speak. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished Mikolo Janovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, distinguished colleagues! The decision on government responsibility is obviously an extraordinary event in Ukraine. What lessons have we learned from considering it for nearly three hours today? What was the atmosphere in which this happened? My impression is that the older generation taught them at school, such as swimming boredom, floating hopelessness, and a verse that sheds sorrow. This, apparently, is something that respectable colleagues can be taken out of the discussion. It was a session of a demonstration of hatred and a duel. Why? The reasons for it are found in Boris Chichibabin’s words: “The mind has not grown to freedom. [[Applause]] There was a demonstration of a duel among the people who could be mentioned in the words of Andrija Dementiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u152	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u153	"Some go to a difficult glory for years, and some go only to cross the notebook." Is there a government to criticize? Absolutely. But why didn't we talk about the problems that are causing people? Pension reform, is there a problem? Yes. Next, the question of medical reform is the problem? Yes. It needs to be decided, but first we need to create a condition for it. Mikolo Janovich, in due course, passed the fine laws of expediency of inheritance. The election is over, the law is blocked. They passed the milk law. In rural areas, people survive entirely by keeping cattle. The law was blocked. Once again, after the election. We need to make the decisions that people have promised. And also, Mikolo Janovich, I'm kind of on the road in the district, and I keep getting 2 percent that aren't repaired. And finally, the main conclusion. Dear colleagues, there has been a process of demonstrating anger today, sometimes ecstasy. But the question is, Will the decision to resign the government be made? No, it's not. But after six months, the government will not come to the Supreme Council, seeing such an attitude. Therefore, before making decisions, we need to see what the consequences will be, and today this is an absolute talk to demonstrate our principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-19-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2617) on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for adoption as a basis, and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:34:42]] For 190 The decision on mistrust of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers is not supported by the Supreme Council. Let us wish the government success, productive work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. The factions. The Party of Regions is 0, Fatherland is 88, Vitalia Klicka is 35, Freedom is 36, Ukraine is 21 and non-fractional is 10. There is an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, next week, work on committees, commissions and factions. End of April, start May work with voters. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 14th, at 10 a.m. I would like to point out that the Conciliation Council will take place on May 14 at 9 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
