ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u1	Please calm down, sit down, start working. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:32]] There were 352 national deputies registered. Dear National Deputies, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are Prime Minister of Ukraine We are the circle of Janović Azarov and members of the government. Let's welcome the government of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. The deputy factions: the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, the faction of the political party of Vitalia Klicka, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the faction of the Party of Regions, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions to be posed during the "hour of questions to the Government". I want to make a note. That the representatives of the MPs did not determine the subject of the "hour of questions to the Government" as provided for in Rule 229 of the Rules. I therefore point out that the vast majority of written questions from MPs to government are within the competence of the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. So answering questions from MPs will be the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Jurijovna, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Bogatirov Raisa Vasilovna, Ukraine’s First Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. The ministers are on their way. The next order is proposed for an hour of questions to the government. Take up to 10 minutes each minister to answer written questions from factions and up to 5 minutes to answer oral questions from national MPs. That'll be 45 minutes. For the rest of the time, it takes 15 minutes for the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to answer the oral questions of the National Deputies. It is suggested that one minute at a time each oral question and two minutes at a time be answered. Therefore, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna, is invited to the rostrum. Please. We'll consider the procedure when the question is, we'll be out of procedure. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! As part of the "hour of questions to the government" from the MPs, 12 written questions came from the Ministry of Social Policy, including from the faction of Fatherskin – 4 questions, from the faction of Impact – 3 questions, from the faction of the Party of Regions – 3 questions, from the faction of ICPO – 2 questions. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer them. The first thing I'd like to do is give you some insight into the priorities of the Ministry of Social Policy. The first step is to develop effective employment and create high-tech jobs, raise citizens' incomes and legalize wages. The second is the achievement of justice in the pension system. The state can and should allow every citizen to eat normally, to buy medicine, clothing, rest, and generally to bring in every pensioner a life worth living after retirement. Imperfection of Ukraine’s pension system In the Ministry today, a working group is set up to prepare proposals that will allow us to eliminate the deficit of the Pension Fund and move to the accumulation components of the pension system, i.e. to the second level, eliminate the so-called pension balances and guarantee people pensions according to their internships and earnings. By modernizing payments for 12 million 800,000 pensioners. The third is to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable categories of citizens: orphans, children deprived of parental care, many children, war veterans, children of war, disabled people, people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on March 13, we had already adopted a series of decisions in that direction. Among them is a bill to increase the support of children with disabilities by a third of a month. Increases in minimum pensions for all participants in hostilities and war II and group III who were 85 years of age. An increase of 10 percent in aid to veterans by May 5. An increase of 14.9 percent of insurance payments to producers. A particular task is to improve the effectiveness of social assistance. To help those who need it most. Today, social spending in the budget of all levels and funds accounts for about 370 billion dollars. That 25 percent of GDP is almost inclusive. But part of the resource is spent very inefficiently. And instead of social services, we've been funding social institutions for years. And to remedy this situation, at the direction of the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine, we have moved on to the preparation of a single information platform. In order to move to an address for social support, which will take into account the level of citizens' income. To ensure that every social bracelet is used effectively. And to solve this problem, we set ourselves a challenge in 2014. The fourth direction is active interaction with the public. And I supported the initiative of public organizations to systematically control the activities of social protection agencies. And this mechanism is already working. The fifth is Ukraine's strategic social development planning for 2013-21023. In our work, we should not be guided just today. Our task is to look further and to develop social policies in a far more distant perspective where every person can see himself in the perspective of 3, 5 and 10 years. That's why the Ministry is currently working with a working group to develop a project on Ukraine's social development concept for 2013-2023. And I invite you, honourable national deputies, to participate in the preparation of this document. As far as specific questions are concerned. A similar question came from the Fatherland faction and from the impact faction about what the government is doing to ensure the level of employment. At present, the government is taking a number of steps to increase employment and create new jobs. In particular, the approved Employment Promotion Programme and Promoting the Creation of New Jobs by 2017, which contains specific indicators for the development of the labour market that guide the government. In accordance with the Employment of the Population Act, which has been in force since early 2013, conditions have been created to increase employment, create new jobs and prevent unemployment. Employers today received 100 percent of the compensation for the only social contribution to employment for the newly created jobs of citizens from socially vulnerable categories of the population for one year. The other one. This is a one-year reduction by 50 percent of the only social contribution for those employers who in the previous year have created new high-paid jobs with a salary of not less than three minimum wages. This rule will increase the investment attractiveness of Ukraine to foreign and domestic investors. A small business entity that creates and employs new jobs receives monthly compensation for each job created in priority areas of the economy. A starting fee of 10 minimum wages will be paid to young specialists who have agreed to work in rural areas for the necessary state specialties. Citizens aged 45 and over will have the right to receive a voucher to pay for the accelerated training of a new profession or to increase their qualifications. The value of a voucher is going to be 10 minimum of living. The list of occupations, specialities, and training levels for priority economic activities will be determined by taking into account the needs of the labour markets. The next question came from the UDA party and the Communist Party of Ukraine about paying wages in the country. According to the situation today, we are monitoring three ways of paying salaries: on the latest official statistics, on the basis of citizens' references, on the basis of the data we receive from the unions. First. As far as paying for the work in the budget area is concerned. According to operational data, there is no such debt in the country today. But the country as a whole really has a debt of wages. And most of this debt has been in the past many years -- enterprises are inactive economic and non-state-owned enterprises. In general, these companies account for more than 300 million dollars and 413 million dollars -- debts on banks. Of course, we will not accept the existence of debts on wages that have been going on in the country for more than a year. People should receive their wages on time. So for all of the economically active enterprises we've asked the Attorney General's Office to get out of all the cases immediately and pay people their wages. Bankruptcy companies are harder. Today, debts that have been in our country for decades amount to over 400 million dollars. And the state doesn't have any active tools. We offer to solve the problem on the basis of the best experience of European countries: Germany, France, Belgium, Czech Republic, Estonia. A specific tool is a guarantee institution that will be obliged to pay people their wages when the bankruptcy procedure begins on the enterprise. So the state will guarantee to every person in our country that if the enterprise goes bankrupt, the person who earned the salary will get it on time and in full. And this decision, I hope very, very distinguished people's deputies, will be supported by the Supreme Council and will be adopted shortly. I also invite all the national MPs to take an active part in the discussion of this decision while it is still being discussed with the public, with experts and with the expert boards. Ladies and gentlemen, if you give me a chance, I can continue to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u3	No, thank you. Question is, please sign up for the National MPs. Five minutes to ask, please. Jacinoc, "The Fatherland" faction. It's Dennis's.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u4	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u5	Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u6	Andrey Pavlovski, deputy of the faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Mr. Natala, how many times have you said, "Thank you, Victor Fedorovich, for your commission!"from this improvement of social issues in our country will not be. I want to tell you that you need to pay more attention and competence in your field, because now there are 519 humanitarian goods on the border since the beginning of the year that have not been understood, they don't get gifts from orphans, disabled children, diabetics. There's a letter to the government from Ambassador Denmark that two million-dollar diabetics can't get drugs that have a limited term. So you'd better get to the specifics, and don't tell us the generals here, we've heard that once before. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u7	Thank you. Answer me, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Pavlovsky. It's about the humanitarian goods. This is really a very resonant question in society today, because you and I know very well that for many years humanitarian goods have been used as one corridor for smuggling to the country. Indeed, since the beginning of January this procedure has been halted. To date, we have received 450 references from various organizations to the definition of humanitarian goods. 250 appeals were considered by ministries under the Humanitarian Aid Act. And all the cargo that contains food and medicine, the cargo that's assigned to government agencies, hospitals, children's homes, social services, 254 of these cargoes have been granted permits and will be delivered to the recipients. But, honourable national MPs, if you're wondering when the Audi red convertible will be delivered to a 85-year-old veteran, it won't be delivered. If you're wondering when those cars you put on the border to get into the country's shadow market today, they won't get there. And I'd also like to add, if you were to specify your question, maybe it's about cat feeds, for puppies going across the border today, and they need immediate deployment. Because cats and puppies can't buy anything in cat shops. Therefore, honourable national deputies, humanitarian goods will be placed. Contraband will not come to Ukraine because of the humanitarian. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, you asked to invite the government. So let's hear it, let's hear it to each other. The word is given to Dennis, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u10	People's MP Denisov, Fatherland faction. Madam Minister, you'd be easier to talk to people's deputies in this way and you'd be better off meeting with the Committee of Social Policy, then you'd hear what charities say. You've created a humanitarian disaster in the state today. Do you understand? It's just an international scandal, already the Vatican saint has come to give these gifts. And another question. Please tell me, when you came to this office, you said that pension reform was a disgraceful reform, that there is no social policy at all in the state. When you cancel this pension reform, when women can retire at 55, and when all 10 years of extra work you cancel. Can you please tell me how to live on this person's 894 bracelet, who is now retired?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u11	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u12	Thank you so much for asking. Once again, I want to remind you of the humanitarian disaster, which is actually in some pockets, some authorities and people's deputies may and may be a humanitarian disaster today, because there is no smuggling through humanitarian goods into Ukraine. Because today's "Contrabanda Stop!" The program and all the goods are subject to careful care. And we really had to take some kind of shock measure to stop this stream. And here I found a postcard that clearly says that for 20,000 euros we're asking for cat feeds, puppy feeds, little puppy feeds, and so on. Because, unfortunately, smuggling. Humanitarian aid did anything. As far as the pension system is concerned. In order to further improve the pension provision, the Ministry of Social Policy, I repeat, has set up a working group. And the main tasks that we're doing today are to modernize pensions. Because you can't do that when a woman who is 40 years of age today, but retired in 2007, gets a pension of 500 dollars less than a female teacher who retires in 2012. And we all remember very well that this has been the case in the country since early 2007. Therefore, respectfully, let us work together to improve the pension security and pension guarantees of our citizens. And we do everything we can to ensure that today pensioners receive timely pensions for January and February and during March of the month all pensions received by the people on time. And today, in January-February, the Pension Fund has revised the plan for 400 million dollars. And we hope very much, honourable deputies, that you can still start working, and you will bring order and justice to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u13	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Time's up. Sit down. U.S. Health Minister Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna is invited to the rostrum. Please. Don't teach, sit down! We agreed on 15 minutes. Have a seat. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national MPs! Pursuant to article 229 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 24 questions have been raised in writing to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: from the deputy faction of the political party "UDA Vitalia Klicka" to 9, the deputy faction of the Party of the Regions – 6, the deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine – 3, the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" – 6. Before you answer any questions, let me inform you about the following. It is very difficult at the specified time to tell us about all the measures taken by the government in the country to improve the quality, availability of medical care today, and undoubtedly the positive developments in health rates. I'm going to talk very briefly about what's done and what's planned. The difficult state of affairs in medicine and the need for its profound modernization, technical restocking, human resources were discussed, in fact, from the first years of our state's independence, but the hands came to actual, practical changes only in 2010. President Viktor Janukovic identified medical reform as one of the priorities in his reform programme. I would like to point out that reform of the health sector is the first and necessary stage of a new long-term policy for the development of the national health system. In particular, a health reform strategy initiated by the Head of State is fully harmonized with the European Health 2020 policy. Its dream has developed a national project called Health 2020: a Ukrainian dimension, which is practically ready for national MPs to look at and approve. The first stage of change is undoubtedly painful and requires a very large amount of finance. But this is where the real new structure, the new mechanisms, and the algorithms for the functioning of the medical sector are being tested. And I realize that maybe things don't work out right away and some people don't like it, and there's a lot that needs to be done to get both understanding and support. I don’t think anyone in this room, as in the government, is in the state of health emergency that we have seen in previous years. Moreover, it is clear to all of us that it is very convenient to have a healthy person who can develop himself and work for the benefit of the country. Reforms in Ukraine began in four pilot regions: Vinniticka, Dnipropetrovska, Donetsk district and city of Kiev The experience gained, including some negative moments, will allow us to cope. continue to introduce changes more systematically, in line with the needs and specificities of each area and of each social group. I believe that further changes should take place on the basis of a constant dialogue between the authorities and the professional medical community in each region, with the obligation to take into account the current proposals on structure, the specialization of institutions, human resources, social issues of workers and so on. We started with basic elements -- primary health care and emergency care. According to the reform plan and the pilot regions, the priority is to develop primary health care with the establishment of a network of facilities with their modern equipment and family doctors. The primary, secondary and third levels of medical care should be divided by functions and there will no doubt be restructuring. What is primary help? This is assistance provided under outpatient conditions that includes counselling, diagnosis, noncomplicated surgery, normal pregnancy, emergency care, and mandatory preventive work for disease prevention, treatment of the most common diseases, injuries, and poisoning and, if necessary, referral of the patient to another, specialized, aid level. It includes primary health care, and ambulances, and FAPs, and primary health care centers. Secondary medical care is specialized medical care. It's provided both in an outpatient and in a stationary environment. And that's where the highly specialized specialists work. Thirdly, aid is a large medical center that serves the region or works throughout the country. These are high - tech medical treatments with appropriate highly professional personnel. During 2011 - 2012, the network of primary medicine facilities was almost entirely established in pilot regions. In 2012, 160 primary health care centres were formed, and 327 million bracelets were allocated to the clinics. Where new, well-equipped and outpatient personnel have been employed, there has been an increase of 17 percent, a reduction of 15 percent, and a reduction in hospitalization for people with severe complications. The experience of the establishment of primary health care centres in 2013 will also be disseminated in areas where it is planned to create 548 primary health care centres by the end of 2013. At the same time, we understand that we need to continue to work intensively to provide doctors with the family practice of primary health care centres. This year, it is planned to reclassify 3,000 health - care workers to the primary level and increase government procurement in medical schools to 7.5,000. Today, there are training courses for family doctors, a program of local incentives is being put in place, and everything is being done to ensure that primary health care performs its function: accessibility, quality, safety and quality, and medical care. The spread of family medicine is closely linked to another promising step in reforming the whole field. This is disease prevention, and I think it's an absolutely key priority for national health policy; promoting healthy lifestyles as a basis for a new culture of high quality of life; and changing health values. We need, I've already told you, healthy people, with strong immunity, no chronic problems, no epidemic suffering. It's an ideal, of course, but if we don't have a goal, we won't be able to achieve that goal. The legal deadline for the completion of primary health care reform in 2020 is set for the transition to primary care on the basis of the general practice of family medicine, so that the introduction of new emergency health care is based on a new law. Emergency medical care and disaster medicine centers have been established in all areas. In 2013, emergency response teams and operational control services will be established. As for the formation of a high-quality secondary level, today we are doing only preparatory work for this stage. We need a concentration of resources so that in the coming years, we can move on to quality changes, help at the secondary level. Dear National Deputies! Given the time deficit, I want to focus your attention on some other important points. The Ministry of Health and the Government of Ukraine devotes great attention to the issue of the worthy pay of health workers and the promotion of their social status as one of the main means of improving the situation of personnel in domestic medicine. In 2012, the wages of pilot health workers, including primary health care professionals, increased by 50 percent. In addition, some of the most painful issues that have not been resolved over the decades have been resolved by government and ministry initiatives over the past three years. In particular, medical and pharmaceutical workers have received a benefit for years, increased salaries for health - care professionals who have specialized in antituberculosis. Graduates and pharmacists who are required to work for at least 3 years in rural areas. As well as family doctors, departmental pediatricians, and therapists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u15	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up, question, five minutes. Fatherland faction, Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u16	Raiso Vasilovno, you don't think it's a mistake for the government to do what we did in the previous summons when we asked the government to come to the Supreme Council and analyze how the so-called medical experiment goes in 4 areas, so that maybe the things you're talking about are adequate theoretically, well, anti-national practically. I mean, if there's a general poverty of Ukrainian citizens, with such transport infrastructure that there's no road, there's only direction, this system doesn't work. What Is the Medical Experiment? In the closing of medical facilities. As deputies, we explain daily to people why medical institutions are closed and protected. In the Dnipropetrovsk region alone, 14 maternity homes were closed. And I'd like to hear if you're ready for a special session of the Supreme Council to take a look at a real medical experiment. Because it's not reform, it's an experiment on people. And second position. How do you rate the story from.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u17	Please, Raisa Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. Regarding the need for changes in health care. I think we've all been talking for many years, and all political party programs promise to make good health changes. I think that not adopting the legislative basis for these changes will enable us not only to start them but also to achieve their goal. So I think that's the right piece of legislation to start the change, and we need to get these most painful moments in order and move forward. This requires more than just financial resources and not just personnel. Support is also needed for the MP Corps. Because the main objective of the reform is not to close institutions, as you just said, but to get closer to people living in rural areas, and where today the greatest need is to provide such quality assistance. So I think that the Ministry of Health is doing the right thing when it's inviting all the colleges to all the press conferences on the round tables on industry reform, on individual directions and people's MPs, and on the public to make the right decisions. Perhaps there are some mistakes in place, but together we can correct them and change them. So I invite you to become partners in reforms, partners in change for the better, which are necessarily taking place in the health system and will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u19	The Yankee Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u21	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u22	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The first phase of medical reform was completed in Ukraine. Today, hundreds of citizens are coming to us about the horrors of medical reform, and dozens of hospitals and wards are closing down. People, especially in rural areas, need to travel through our roads, up to 30 miles [50 km] to a medical facility. It is not uncommon for a speedy woman to drive a patient to a hospital. Because there's a standard to getting to a challenge, and that's how fast it's going to get to a medical facility. So, don't you think it's probably more appropriate to start with comprehensive medical reform, discuss this with the communities, and then move on, including raising the amount of money spent on reform. Perhaps it is more appropriate to distribute these huge funds to all medical institutions and then not have to carry out medical reform, and the Ukrainians will actually feel that we have free medicine?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u23	Raisa Vasilovna, have you heard the question? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u24	I didn't hear everything, but what I heard, I'm gonna try to make it clear. Do you feel that without change, such as changes in the provision of emergency medical care, it will solve the issue itself? Providing medical care in accordance with a law adopted by the people’s deputies like you is the beginning of changes that need to be made in the coming years. And this question has a lot of elements. It's a question and communities, it's a question and deputies of all levels. This is also a question of executive authority, for only a physician depends on 20 percent. The rest depends on the roads, and on the ambulance, which will be quick help as a means of transport, on the equipment, on the medicine that is there. What did the government and the state do? Without waiting for the adoption of the law just so that the rapid medical aid would be provided with all the drugs and it would be possible to reduce the complexity and mortality of cardiovascular complications, everything was done to ensure that the medical ambulance was provided with drugs in full measure. To this end, 327 million dollars in subsidies were given to all regions last year. For quick medical care, extra money has been made available to buy and dispose of waste materials to ensure that no one is without medical care because either the syringe or the drug is not available. It was at the expense of the State that the pilot regions proved to be correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u25	Raisa Vasilevna, thank you. Thank you, sit down, time's up. The first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, is invited to the rostrum, please. Merkovsky will speak, I'll give a statement on the whole government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to start with a question about the relationship between government and local budgets. Strengthening the financial base of local self - government is one of the main tasks of the government. An important issue of public fiscal policy is the building of an effective system of inter-budget relations and inter-budget regulation to ensure the socio-economic development of the regions and the state as a whole. Over the past two years, changes have taken place in the Codex Budgets of Ukraine, and these changes have allowed for substantial strengthening of local finances. In 2013, local authorities received an additional 11.3 billion dollars of income as a result of their efforts. In particular, by transferring the revenue of the State budget to the revenues of local budgets, which are included in the determination of inter-budget transfers of 2.5 billion dollars; by expanding the sources of own revenue, this applies to land payments, collection for certain types of entrepreneurial activities, administrative fines and other sanctions of 3.5 billion dollars; by adding a single tax to the development budget for investment-related measures – 4.8 billion dollars; and by deducting the fixed property tax and the cost of rations in the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited area received under the Ukrainian Capital Action Act – 0.5 billion dollars. In 2012 the State Regional Development Fund was established to provide State support for regional development. The State budget for 2012 provides and uses 1.6 billion dollars. Similar funds are also foreseen in the 2013 budget. The changes made to the Ukrainian Budget Code in 2012 handed over seven types of licence fees and national registration fees to the district budgets, the Republic of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the budgets of the city of Kiev and Sevastopol. This year, an additional 919 million dollars will be spent on these budgets to carry out their own responsibilities. The financial resources of the local budgets in 2013, general and special funds and transfers from the State budget amount to 220.1 billion dollars, 28.1 billion dollars or 14.7 percent more than in 2012. Minfin's calculation of local budgets for 2013 takes into account the economically sound amounts of income that are determined from the macro-indicators approved by the government for this year, as well as the dynamics of revenue over a number of years and the changes in tax legislation. Further increases in social standards and structural reforms have been taken into account. An additional and financial resource of 0.7 billion has been increased, which remains at the disposal of local councils, whose budgets are balanced from the transfer of funds to the State budget and are set at 0.8 billion dollars. In 2012, this resource amounted to 0.1 billion dollars. There is an additional grant at the 2012 level to compensate local budgets for $1 billion. An increase of 10 billion dollars compared to the previous year of social subsidies. The main focus in inter-budget relations is on socio-economic development of regions, such as the State budget for 2014: 1.3 billion dollars of subsidies for social development measures in individual areas; 1 billion dollars to the Regional Development Fund; 2.4 billion dollars of subsidies for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property in localities; 440 million dollars of subsidies for social repair of central water supply and water supply systems. An additional resource for the regions is also the cost of distribution of government capital expenditure. This year, 1.7 billion dollars have been allocated. Also this year, the government has proposed new approaches to capital spending by involving additional resources through the banking sector of the economy under state guarantees, which will help to address the development of the regions according to those projects that will be developed and approved by the government. At the local level, too, a number of structural changes occur when budgeting is used. In particular, this applies to the introduction of a software target method at the local level. Systemic and wide-ranging reforms in Ukraine are one of the priorities for budget reform, and the implementation of the targeted method is precisely defined. Since 2010, an experiment has been carried out on the local level of the software and target elements. In 2010, 37 local budgets took part in the experiment, 118 in 2011 and 346 in 2012. The Ministry of Finance and Government systematically meet with representatives of local self - government, as well as with representatives of district government administrations. All the issues that we are discussing are being accumulated, and to some extent, measures are being taken in accordance with their settlement authority. And you know, in the 2013 Budget Act, there's a rule that the results of the first quarter of the search for additional resources will make appropriate changes to the budget. With regard to sovereign debt policy, there are also a number of questions. And I would like to say that in general, we value debt policies positively, and I would like to say that the government has made payments in full over the last three years, at the same time and in full, both core debts and interest payments. We've calculated with all the creditors, including. according to the schedule, including the International Monetary Fund. Our debt burden is characterized by GDP as reasonable because in most countries of Europe and around the world it is more than 80 and some have 200 percent. We have 36.8. All the debt service costs are done according to the schedule, and the question is that we have $64.5 billion in debt, I'd like to say that these payments, this debt, they're not one moment. And if we had an average repayment period of 4.1 years last year, it is 5.1 years by the end of 2012. So we've diversified our risks, and so we've increased the repayment deadline. With regard to the release of instruments in foreign currency, we believe that they allow us to invest resources in the State Budget and increase our gold reserves. These tools also allow for a rapid response to the unstable situation in the external markets and the ability of the government to involve available resources in the state. As far as debt structure is concerned, government and Minfin are also taking action in this direction, and in 2013 we expect that for the first time in ten years the share of domestic government debt will exceed the share of external government debt and will be 51.3 percent. There was also a question regarding the acquisition of equipment by the Ukrainian polygraph for intaglio printing. I would like to report that this equipment was purchased earlier in 2005, i.e. eight years ago, and, of course, that cars have this property -- to wear out, to depreciate, and to think about replacing this equipment. So a decision was made: To buy this second set of equipment and it will be installed in 2013. And this equipment is going to be useful.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u27	Thank you. I'd like the deputies to sign up for the speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the third time Jeremiah's system doesn't work, please include it as a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] It doesn't work the third time. Member, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, members of the government! We have an hour of questions to the government today, not a report. Note, the national deputies have split up. Ten minutes you report, no one's listening. One question is, What are we talking about? We have 46 million voters today, dozens of questions. The first minister went out, threw all the dirt, turned around, left. What are we doing here? [[Applause]] Give us the opportunity to ask questions that we want answers to. Thank you with all due respect to the government and the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Party of regions, Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u30	Chechtovu's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u31	The hammered word,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u32	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, thank you for your objective and understandable information, for your answers to your questions. Social issues are now very often speculated upon. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we are well aware that the growth of social standards is a product of economic growth. GDP growth is projected at 3.4 per cent this year. Question: From what and from what resources will we increase GDP by 3.4 per cent? How do we increase GDP by 3.4 per cent? [[B in m in s a l in]] How are we going to ensure GDP growth by 3.4 per cent this year, since GDP growth is the basis for social standards growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. I just didn't understand the whole question. I understood, yes. Honourable national deputies, despite the slowdown in the growth of the world economy and the fall in world prices for basic Ukrainian exports, have had a negative impact on the development of export-oriented sectors of the economy, the government has taken a number of measures to stimulate domestic demand and domestic production, which have led to an increase in domestic-market-oriented industries in January and February 2013: food production by 6.3 per cent; wood production by 5.8 per cent; production of basic pharmaceutical products by 32.2 per cent; production of computers, electronic and optical products by 1.6 times. In addition, on February 27 of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a national programme to boost economic growth, economic development for 2013 and 2014. And this program will soon be published. In order to boost economic growth, the government is focusing on supporting the core sectors of the economy that make the biggest contribution to GDP: metallurgy, agri-industrial complex, machine-building, and the development of priority high-tech sectors that are capable of producing high-value products. And you know that the government is supported by the tax innovations that are in the budget and the Tax Code, and we are systematically working to reduce and optimize the tax system. You know that the income tax next year is going to be reduced to 16 percent, so a number of measures that will deal with the deregulation of measures, as well as direct budget support, and measures that will be indirectly activated, are meant for the banking sector, giving us reason to expect economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u34	Thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to see Anna Herman's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u35	Dear Mikolo Janovich! Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers! We thank you for coming to talk today in such an important warehouse. Thank you for the many professional questions that have been raised here. But, Mikola Janovich, we will have one request for you. Please don't bring the Royal to us again. Because, Mikola Janovich, a tone of conversation such as that of the Minister allows himself in the Chamber with the deputies. Instead of favouring, setting up a dialogue between society and government, it works backwards. Or let Raisa Vasilivna teach her how to talk to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u36	I'd like the deputies to sign up for a question to the government. Please sign up. Sass, faction of the Motherland union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u37	Please give the floor to the national deputy Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u38	Pass it to Yatzenjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u39	We have no questions about this government. Because only those who know what to answer need to be asked. And they don't know, they don't know, they don't want to. We only have one message. First. The good news is that this government will appear in the Parliamentary Hall right next plenary week. And bad news. They will appear because the opposition has registered the Resolution of Distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Applause]] You need to get fired. But there is another good news. You don't get upset if we resign. We'll give you a minimum wage of 1,147 dollars and a minimum pension of 894. And don't deny yourself anything!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u40	Freedom Union, Heleway, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u41	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Michalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u42	Mihalchisin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u43	Dear in all the meanings of that word, Mikolo Janovich! Today's "question day to the government" is a complete disgrace and butaphoric! Unprofessionalism, incompetence, lack of professional preparation! And now to you, Mikolo Janovich, a question from all voters in the city of Lviv. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikolo Janovich, please listen carefully! The national target of the Euro preparation programme was to allocate Lviv assimilation for repair and reconstruction of municipal property roads -- 250 million in 2011 and 200 million in 2012. Today, the debt of the state budget for the city of Lviv is 153 million! When will you put it out?Oh, my God! And why did you put them out of business quickly, first of all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u44	Deputies! We invited the government to be able to ask the question. To answer. But the Prime Minister doesn't hear what the question was. That's why I give the floor to Herman Hanni Mikolayivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u45	With your permission, Your Honor, two questions. First question to Mr. Kojari, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Kojara, please take a moment off the phone and listen to questions raised by the deputies. This year, in November, there will be 80 years of famine. What do I want to know about the construction of the D.C. Famine Monument? Please answer that question. Again, this year there will be 80 years of famine in Ukraine. I'd like to know how it's going to be done with the D.C. Hunger Monument, how it is today, at what stage, please? And the second question to the Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister. What it looks like with the amendments to the Language Law, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u47	What is the situation with the amendments to the Language Law that was introduced and developed by the working group under the leadership of Leonid Krawczuk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u48	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Regarding the beginning of the Memorial of Hungermare, this event in Washington, D.C., the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made proposals for changes to Ukraine’s state budget. We hope that the necessary amount of 20 million dollars will be allocated to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u50	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Now with my appointment to the appropriate task force, we'll be considering this in the near future. I got the materials from the group. We're about to get to this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u51	I beg of you, National Deputy Sharov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished members of the government, distinguished colleagues, I have a letter to Dmitri Tobacco, Minister of Education and Science. Dear Dmitre Volodymyrovich, thank you for quickly solving the problems of education in Kirovgrad, in general, and especially in the Kirovgrad Flying Academy. And you have a request. The 28-29 number of the current month in Kiev will take off the young teachers of Kirovogradjska, request to join and provide methodical assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u53	Please, answer me. Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u54	Thank you. Honorable National Deputy Sharov, regarding the Kirovgrad Air Force Academy. Last year, for the first time in years of independence, there was a program for the purchase of 10 training aircraft that allowed for the full preparation of pilots for passenger and freight flights. Thus, pilot training will be restored to the full extent of the quality of the pilots in Ukraine. And it was in Kirovgrad that this training center was created. As for the gathering of young teachers of Kyrovgradtina, this is part of the overall program for preparing the gathering of young teachers of Ukraine, which will take place at the end of this year. Thank you for your understanding and I assure you that all the problems of education not only in Kirovgrad, but also in all the regions, will be solved within the limits of the possibilities offered to our central executive body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u55	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u56	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me, throughout the history of an independent Ukraine, when, working for three years as Prime Minister and having a second government, did anyone not have the opportunity to introduce the country's development programme? Please tell us, how can opposition representatives who defend the interests of their constituents be tested and controlled by the government? That's the first question. This is a gross violation of the Constitution for which you have no right to work. The other one. With the right to control, the people’s deputies personally contact you with a letter, I have sent not less than eight letters to you personally. Here's the procedure: you're sending the vice-premier for review, and the vice-premier's directing you to look into who I'm complaining about. For example, all media have written about a corrupt scheme for the introduction of a new system of cashiers. Two firms close to yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u57	Please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u58	Two companies are making a profit in the introduction of new cashier control technology for 9 million dollars a month. The second question I asked the Minister of Finance was, you sent to the person who conducted the control room, called the "laboratory chamber," which I closed in 1996, as a national deputy. Today, state-owned jewelry companies are in line to pay bribes to former Deputy Finance Minister Shewchenk. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to understand that we are the opposition, that we ask unpleasant questions, take personal control, there is nothing personal there, we point to the issue of corruption in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Vasilovna! She's ruling. These facts need to be taken into account, and we will certainly give an answer. I want to say that, sadly, some opposition leaders have little memory. I'd like to ask Mr. Yatsenuk when he worked as Chief of the Supreme Council, could he have lived on a pension of 545 dollars and a minimum wage of 633? I want to ask Alexander Volodymyrna when there was some kind of program in the Timoshenko government? The government has developed a programme to activate the country's economy, which it approved at its meeting. This programme should ensure that Ukraine's economy grows and you can control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u60	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Martovitchki. I'll put it on the line, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u61	Good afternoon, distinguished Mikola Janovich, members of the government, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to give Kinah Anatoly Kirilovich a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u62	Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u63	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies! A question to the minister of health, the revered Raisa Vasilovna Botirovova. We are all aware of the threat to the health and safety of Ukrainian citizens, to the development of domestic production, and to the availability of drugs in Ukraine’s internal market for smuggled and counterfeit products. And it's very principled and positive that we've gained the validity of the law that provides for the licensing of medical importers in Ukraine and we support this law at the same time. Question, Raisa Vasilivna. How do we implement this law in the context of the transition period?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. Honorary Anatoly Kirilovich, the government and the Ministry of Health, is clearly in compliance with the rules introduced by the law and regulations of March 1, 2013, concerning the licensing of imports. Today, a group has been set up for this transitional period with the participation of representatives of all departments involving representatives of the public, employers, with the participation of the European business association and other expert circles in order to work out procedures that have been harmonized with European legislation during this period. And we could clearly, after the transition period, provide both imported medicines for Ukrainian citizens and guarantee their quality of non-contraactive origin and their main effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u65	Deputies! Two factions an hour asked no questions. That's why I'm giving Block Key to question the speech and the faction of the Communists. Please join Vitalia Clicko. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the replica, I said I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u66	I'm telling you, time's up. Oleg, time's up. Come on, I've declared Vitaly the Cliché. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll finish the line, I said, ladies, stay still. Please, Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. In fact, we were unable to ask any questions at all times. I'd like to ask you a question, Mikola Janovich. Dear Mikolo Janović, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers is accountable and accountable to Parliament. The rules of the Supreme Council provide for specific deadlines and procedures for this. Under your direction, the government that in its previous warehouse, unfortunately, is not fulfilling its obligations? Why? Because article 227 of the Rules stipulates that during the month following the formation of a new government, he is obliged to present to Parliament a programme of his activities. The moon's gone, there's no program. When will it appear, when will disrespect for the law cease? It's a similar situation with the government's report for its activities. On the First Conciliation Council this year, First Vice Prime Minister of Arbuzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u68	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u69	He assured me it would take two or three weeks to prepare the report. March is over, there is no report. The question is, when will he be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u70	I've already answered that question. The government has developed a program to activate the economy, it's posted on the site. You can get to know her. What I can say about the report is that for the first time in 2010-2011, the budget implementation report was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. This was neither in 2008, nor in 2009. That's why there's going to be time. There's going to be a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u71	I'm asking for a lineup, a minute, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Mikola Janovich, at the government meeting, the president said that as a bad dancer, something was preventing you from running the program. For two years you have put Julia Timoshenko in jail for playing, a politician, and all of you are relying on her to run the government. Mikola Janovich, I emphasize once again that when I write letters to you from the committee, I propose cooperation in the fight against corruption, and don't send letters like that, and don't remind yourself of Julia Timoshenko's work. You've already done what she's doing behind bars, and you torture her. This is a disgrace to you and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u73	I'm asking you to turn on the Taggnibok microphone for replica. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u74	Pull side, Freedom. Not a replica, but a question for the government and the Prime Minister. But first, I want to say about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. But today you have made a mockery here, Mr. Head, in the Supreme Council, not "the hour of the government." What do they allow themselves to be, who are they? These are hired workers. People chose us to ask them questions. Government programs do not provide, ridicule people, disrespect MPs, and the community. Mr. Prime Minister, tell us, where are the 2 percent roads that haven't been repaired? Can 98 percent of roads be repaired? Tell us about what you turned the state into today? But you have to retire, all of you, you have to dust your heads. You have to apologize to the people of Ukraine for what you have led people to do: unemployment, corruption, and the destruction of all sectors of production. And you don't care about yourself here, you put yourself in front of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u75	Communist faction, final question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u76	He's a executioner. Name your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u77	Thank you. You know, you really want an "hour of questions to the government" not to be a paraffinic and political spectacle, but you could essentially ask questions and hear real answers and set up constructiveism. Only then can we get out of some problems. So here's a question to Mr. Azarov. Dear Mikola Janovich, tell us that Kabmin is today proposing a legislative initiative to reduce the sole social tax on wages. Is not populism such an initiative in view of the understanding that the filling of the Pension Fund will be greatly reduced? What are you going to balance this deficit with? And if, in fact, such an initiative is implemented, would it not be better to reduce the tax burden to 15 percent and compare it to the cost of services controlled today's conversion services, sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u79	I'll answer that question. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the economic bloc of the Government, indeed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm in Ukrainian. Ladies and gentlemen, in Ukrainian. In fact, it's being developed today, and today we're counting on a reduction in the single social contribution to the wage fund, because we understand that business today needs a reduction in tax burden. But we have to understand that our initiatives should not lead to any deficit in the Pension Fund. Today, the government is working on bills that will help bring this deficit to nothing. I mean, this is, first of all, improving the administration of the tax on natural persons, and also considering a bill to which all the circles will be involved for its processing. This is a bill for the general declaration of citizens’ income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u80	Thank you. The replica. And we're done. Jacinek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u81	It's interesting, of course, that the government is asking the question of opposition. But we're asking a question here, and you need, Mikola Janović, to prepare to answer a question to the new Attorney General of Ukraine. That's the first one. Two: regarding your pension. You know, we're going to treat you very culturally, honestly and fairly. The opposition will take care of your pension, and I think in principle you don't need to retire, because the kind of corruption you've developed in the government, you can pay your pension to all the people of Ukraine at your own expense. And the third. You do not need to answer any questions for one simple reason: You have no influence in this country. Only President Janukovic is active in the country. And so the opposition under the law and the Constitution wants to see the head of the Ukrainian state Viktor Yanukovich in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a question for him, not those guys who are in the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u82	Dear People's Deputies, "The year of questions before the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's get back to work. It's for Sas's lineup. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u83	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I want to. asked for the word in the order of article 29. Vladimir Vasilovich, this is the first time you've spent an hour of questions to the government, so I'd like to draw your attention to the following. In accordance with Rule 35 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, members of the Cabinet of Ministers answer questions. So in the following, please do not invite your deputies to the rostrum. That's the first question. And the next. Here Vitaly Klitschko asked questions about the government program. Absolutely in accordance with article 227 in the month following the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers, they should give the government a program to Parliament along with a decree on its adoption. Mikola Janović probably does not know, so he has this program posted on some sites. In view of the fact that you, Vladimir Vasilovich, organize the work of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 88 of the Constitution, I ask you to do everything possible to ensure that the program comes within the prescribed legal term, and we have considered it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have requested a recess to hold consultations. It's a faction. Here are the signatures of "The Fatherland" and. "Freedom." Yeah, right? Let's continue the session in 11 hours 50 minutes. In 30 minutes, please be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u85	I'm asking you to invite the coulaire deputies to the session room. Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. At a meeting of the Supreme Council on March 21st, the Ukrainian national deputies expressed concern about the delay in the consideration of the question of the compatibility of parliamentary powers with the Ukrainian National Deputy and with the Ukrainian Defence Minister Lebedev. There is a proposal to consider, vote on, and give the word Arsenija Petrovich on consultations conducted by opposition factions. Do you have a deal? This question should not be included in the order of the day. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Lebedev, Paul Valentinovich, wrote an application for his parliamentary powers. Therefore, I am voting against the proposal to suspend the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Lebedev Pavel Valentinović, elected in the one-maned constituency no. 224 (Party of the Regions) in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please vote. [[12:12:39]] For 239. Against 0, held – 1, did not vote – 113. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party – 114, Parenthood – 56, Vitaly Klitschko – 30, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. I would like to take you to the words of Jacinyuk, the national deputy of Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u86	Mr. Chairman, members of Parliament! In the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we discussed the implementation by Ukraine of the Plan of Action "Ukraine – European Union". First of all, we are concerned that for the first time in 20 years of Ukrainian history, a permanent committee of cooperation "Ukraine – the European Union" has not been formed. And that's why our European partners cancelled the visit that was scheduled for next week. The second is about the agenda, the bills that we have to consider. The opposition made it clear that it would support all the laws relating to the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union. We will support all the laws that will make it possible to sign the Free Trade Agreement and the political association between Ukraine and the European Union. And that is why today we will support the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and the visa-free regime. However, I would like to point out separately what laws the government is passing, as if under the slogan of Ukraine’s European integration. For example, the Law on the Special Seizure of Property, according to which property can now be confiscated not only from the person who committed the crime but from the person who probably had a bearing on the crime. Interesting European standards. The other one. The government introduces a bill that provides for criminal liability for legal persons. This radically and radically changes the Ukrainian doctrine of the system of law, where we have sole responsibility on individuals rather than legal ones. That is, if a person has one share of an enterprise to which a criminal case has been committed, he may also be imprisoned and may also be confiscated. Third. The notion of bribes is expanded to the incomprehensible definition of "receiving benefits." This will allow not only the prosecution's organs, but also the courts, and the police, and anyone to persecute anyone without proper grounds. We advocate that the government be responsible and that their efforts to create a repressive machine in Ukraine are not covered by the European Union. There are no such laws in the European Union. And the government should know that and stop teasing the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why we demand that there be a meeting of two committees. It is a committee of European integration and a committee of law enforcement to identify a specific list of laws that the government will enact in European integration. We'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u87	Honorable deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce the requests of the national deputies. So I'm going to announce and I'm going to remind you. And then we're going to look at Europe. We must first vote in favour of the request, at least 150 votes and then at least 226 votes for the President. Requests to other addressees are announced, but no vote is taken. Here we are, asking questions: Sergey Kaplina (we have just taken a decision) to the President of Ukraine on the need for the release of Paul Lebedev from the post of Minister of Defence of Ukraine for gross violation of the requirements of current legislation. Is there a need to make such a decision? Yes. Please vote in favour of this request. [[12:17:52]] For-136 Against 23, held – 30, not voted – 168. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. By factions, please: Region Party 3, Fatherland, 63, Vitaly Caller, 36, Freedom, 31, Company 0, non-fractional, 3. Groups of National Deputies (Butkowski, Kuzmuk and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the State Special Transportation Service to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote in favour of the request. Please vote. [[12:18:47]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Mr. Mikoli Fedoruk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" by the Secretary of the Montenegrin City Council, Vitaly Mikhailishin. Maxima Burbak to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General on the violation of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" by the officials of the Montenegrin City Council. Leontia Martinyuka and Andrija Mohnika to the Head of the Supreme Council for information on the nationality of the 445 national deputies of the seventh vocation of Ukraine. Vasila Petyovka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the violation of the integrity of the parliamentary status and the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Vladimir Bondarenko to the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy and Use of the Poltava Regional Council for the violation of the rights of the Society's property, with limited responsibility for the scientific and manufacturing company ATOL, for equipment in well No.455 of Tishchenkov's Grečano-Horoškov Square by the limited responsibility of Invest Nafto-gasogogogog. Omeljana Parubka and Sergija Gordienka head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, Head of the Cerkas District Public Administration, Golden City Head of the Cherkas region on the multi-year ecological pollution of surface waters and the environment by uncleaned sewers from the city of Zgar, Złotońska River, Kremenčuk Water Refuge and the causes of this complex ecological situation. Anatolia Vitova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the network of medical facilities in the Volin region and the number of health workers. Andrija Ivanchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the conduct by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of corruption, other abuses in the course of public procurement in 2012. Andrija Paruba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-elimination of the Lviv National University of Veterinary Medicine and Biotechnologies of the name Stepan Gczycko. Anatolia Dirova to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the examination of patients' rights in clinical examinations of medical devices, as well as on the aircraft resulting from the use of hepatitis B vaccine, and on the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine's responsibility. Andrija Pishna to the Prime Minister on the increase in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2013 in the necessary funding for social payments under decisions of the courts to the Chernobyl and war children. Arsena Avakov to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Geology Service, on the situation of shale gas production, particularly in the Yusev region (Harkow region), and the signing of an agreement with the Shell campaign. Investments. ” — The Netherlands. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister about the intervention in the situation in the southern Odessa area with the provision of compressed gas to citizens. Vadim Koleschenka to the Prime Minister for the non-elimination of the Organization Committee on the Establishment and Functioning of the National Military Memorial Cemetery, the obligation to create and operate as defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 2 June 2011, the President's Order of 5 October 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers' Plan of Implementation of the Order of 6 July, and the personal responsibility of the officials of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine to ensure the activities of the Committee. Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister on the need to resolve the situation that has arisen around the destruction of the land of the State Enterprise "Mjogostian State ipdrome". Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the city of Heivoron Kirovograd. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to implement the Agreement on socio-economic development in the region between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ivano-Frankiv District Council. Victor Balloga to the Prime Minister about the state registration of property for immovable property that was built before August 5, 1992. Victor Gubar to the Prime Minister on the legislative regulation of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from February 4, "Some questions about the proper functioning of the system of state registration of property rights for immovable property". Victor Timoshenko to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the head of the Cherka district administration, Sergio Tuluba. Victor Timoshenko to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food in restoring the work of the Cerkas region's alcohol factories. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the municipal institution "Ochtir City Centre for Culture and Leisure" in the city of Ohtirka for the proper provision of children and young cities with access to culture and sport. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation from the State budget of Ukraine of the necessary funds to complete the full cleansing of the Suma region from unfit or banned pesticides and agrochemicals. Vitaly of the Infamy to the Prime Minister on the Consequences of the Adoption of the Law on the Specialities of Public Property Management in the Defence and Industrial Complex. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister for the payment of pension and other social assistance to citizens affected by the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station in Czartkowsk and Zalitski district of Ternopil. Vitalia Jaremi to the Prime Minister, Director-General of the Kiivenergo Public Stock Company, on the provision of information on the state of the environment and environmental audit data on the activities of the energy waste plant. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the need for rapid repair of roads in the village of Troyščina in the right-wing district of Kiev, whose catastrophic condition poses a great threat to motorists and pedestrians. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister, Committee for Economic Reform, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the closure of the Doubian City Hospital, a town-type village called Doubish Baraniv district of Žitomir district. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Provincial District Administration for the settlement of the debt owed to the villagers of the village of Dubrovka, Baraniv region, Žitomir district for the milk delivered to the dairy company of the dairy company, with limited responsibility for the Rainbowford Milk Factory. Vladimir Bidyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the Donetsk Metro and the prevention of environmental disaster. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister for the agreement signed in Davos on the production of solar gas between Shell and the unknown company Nadra Juzivska, which has never been involved in the production of solar gas. So the question is, how did Nadra Yuszowska win the competition and did this company come up to carry out the fraudulent corruption scheme? Gennady Zubka to the Prime Minister for the increase in the state budget subsidy of ten million dollars for the provision of liaison aids, other legal aids and compensation for the passage of separate categories of citizens in the Gitomir region for the payment of debts for the transfer of civilian benefits to the CP “Situmir Tram and Trollebus Management”. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the monuments of the national significance of the Dominican Monastery in the town of Zowwa, a monastery with a bell in the village of the town of Podkamyn. Hennady Truhanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a children's youth sports school with a swimming pool in the Suvorov region of Odessa. Hennady Truhanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a children's clinic in the Suvorov district of Odessa. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to the Ternopil State Gymnasium for the reconstruction of the theatre. Igora Ribakova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues related to the formation of indicators of local budgets in the region of Gordnjan. Igor Sabia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the return of the previous timetable of a series of trains that were carried out through the Hmelnicka region's inhabited areas and the restoration at the points of the railway connection of the Rosolovci - Krasilovi district of the Hmelnicki region and the Kamyanski move in the town of Hmelnicki. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the installation of a Ponton Bridge on the Right River in the village of Pekarov on the Sosnica-Bekarov highway. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the gasification of the villages and the construction of gas pipelines in Brodivsk, Buskik and Radehiv region of Lviv. Irina Pharion to the Prime Minister for the possible elimination of secondary education school No. 2 of the town of Nizhina Chernigiv district. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for Housing of the Lutsky Foreign Service of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Mikoli Jiga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the terms of the contract for the completion of the work on the gasification of the village of Rakhni Lis in the Chargórod region of Winnitsk. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the highways of regional importance of the Turkish region of the Volin region. Lydia Kotelak to the Prime Minister for the capital repair of the Lviv-Ternopil State Road. Lilia Greenewicz to the Prime Minister on the need to review the size of the President of Ukraine's scholarship to the international student Olympics in connection with its decline in 2012. Lilia Greenevich to the Prime Minister for non-compliance by the Cabinet of Ministers with the obligation to increase the basic rate of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network from 1 January 2013 and not to increase the pay of the education staff. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Prime Minister on the immediate response to developments at the Chernobyl AES, the creation of a commission that will conduct all necessary expertise and conclude on the possibility of overcoming the existing and probable adverse conditions that have arisen or may arise at the Chernobyl AES. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for the construction of the Prut River Bridge in the village of Morshinki Novoselicka district of Cherniewice. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Prime Minister to address the problems of the uninterrupted functioning of the local fire team of the town's town-type town of Sørne district of the Plain region and to return it to the state service of Ukraine with extraordinary circumstances. Mikoli Fedoruka to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for not allowing the reduction of the network of anti-tuberculosis institutions in Ukraine. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister on the solution of problems with household wastes in the village of the city type of the Latin Vinick region. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister on settlement costs for the construction of the pipeline. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of jobs financed from government and local budgets. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, on strengthening the social protection of internationalist soldiers and defining 2014 as veterans of war in Afghanistan in connection with the 25th anniversary of military withdrawal. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister on the use of the Cabinet of Ministers to protect the interests of the people of Ukraine, the national interests of the State in initiating the recognition of invalid contracts for the supply of gas No. KP and the volume and transit conditions of natural gas through Ukraine from 2009 to 2019 from 19 January 2009 between Gazprom and Naftogaz of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister on measures aimed at the effective implementation of the Green Tariff and the dissemination of alternative energy sources in Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister for the solution of the socio-economic problems of the city of Zbarz Ternopil. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister for ensuring the proper conditions for the activities of Ukrainian state broadcasters. Oleg Láška to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the first Deputy Head of the State Road Agency to verify the catastrophic state of the road in Ukraine, and report on repairs of road cover in 2013. Oleg Orotyuk to the Prime Minister for the protection of the legitimate rights of Chernobyl pensioners in the Ternopil region and for the payment of pensions, additional health pensions, according to a decision of the courts in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens in the Certkov region of Ternopil and the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to prevent the elimination of the medical anti-tuberculosis network in order to reduce the incidence of tuberculosis among Ukrainian citizens. Oleg Orotyuk to the Prime Minister for the violation of the legal rights and non-accounting for the interests of the territorial communities of the Kremenchuck region of Poltava, when decisions were taken by the Kremenchuck District Administration and the Kremenchuck District Council, which provides for the eviction of more than two thousand inhabitants of the fourteen population of the Kremenchuck district of Poltav. Alexander Donya to the Prime Minister on the need to pay off the debt owed to the Colomia Experimental Plant Prut. Alexander Dubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the road, the need to take urgent measures to address the issue and provide relevant information for use in parliamentary activities. Alexander Zubchevsky to the Prime Minister on the impossibility of receiving military personnel from the city of Melitopol in the Zaporez area of their apartments. Alexander Ponomarrow to the Prime Minister regarding the appeal of the Bergian District Council on the issue of the distribution of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets. Alexander Ponomaryov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the implementation of the social and economic development subsidy in the city of Berdjansk Zaporijska region in 2012. Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister on the urgency of taking action to repay the employees of the State Enterprise, the Scientific Research Institute of Radio Systems. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the cessation of the illegal circulation of counterfeit and inequitable drugs in the Ukrainian medical market. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister for not allowing the destruction of the lands of the Kyiv County Natural and Command Fund. Olga Fight to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, regarding the restoration of the stop of suburban trains in Hmelnicky on the Kamyanecki platform of the Žmerinsky Railway Directorate of South-West Railway. Olga Fight to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, regarding the non-admission of the reduction of jobs at Shepetovka-1 Station of the Cosatian Railway Directorate. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister for the introduction in 2013-2014 of the budgets of the city of Kalucha in the region of Johno-Frankow region, which is a zone of extreme ecological situation, an ecological coefficient. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister on electricity tariffs in buildings that have an autonomous electric power supply. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister on the need to take immediate measures to prevent the destruction and preservation of the remains of the wooden sacral architecture of national importance. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the verification of the excess prices for medical supplies and medical supplies purchased at the expense of government and local budgets in 2011-2012. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for carrying out an immediate audit of the financial and economic activities of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in connection with the numerous facts of illegal, purposeless and ineffective use of held funds and property. Roman Shugal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, head of the Seminal District State Administration of the Poltava Region for inclusion in the socio-economic development programmes and construction budgets of the Semenovka-Obolon pipeline in the village of the Great Lipnaga in the Seminal region of Poltava. Roman Vanzurjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting additional subsidies to the local budgets of the region for the capital repair of streets and roads. Roman Shugal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration for the consideration of the open letter-making community of a town-type village of Seminovka Poltava district for the stopping and closing of the Veselodil sugar plant. Roman Vanzurjak to the Prime Minister for the restoration of temporarily closed entry points across the Ukrainian-Romanian border in 2010. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the inclusion in the socio-economic development programmes and the state budget for the completion of the construction of the road around the village of Kotelva Poltava district on the road section of the state importance of Sumi Poltava. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on accounts payable for the implementation of the 2012 Radiation and Social Protection Programme for the population of Yellow Water. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to solve the problem of payment to children of war on the basis of decisions taken by the courts and the urgent development and implementation of legislation that ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions. Time is up for consideration. Let's move on. Please hold the session in order. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u88	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, during this period until we were able to work, there was a situation that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was not fully regulated. For example, I tried asking the secretariat a few questions, but they weren't accepted because there were already two of my people there and so on. So even if we're running out of time, let's add a little bit of time today after considering other issues, and all the questions that are in existence, let's get to work so that the government and the other institutions that we've been sending them to work. Otherwise, there will be such a build-up that we will not be able to work and perform our functions as national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u89	There's a proposal to consider two laws, we'll have time there, and then we'll come back, and we'll take a few more questions. Yeah, right? Let's get some rest. 30 minutes, you think, is easy to read. I beg you, Matthew, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. If so, it's an important reason to rest, I understand that it's very difficult for the presiding to read today hundreds of those parliamentary questions that have been made by the people's deputies, but still let's make it clear that after considering the issues that you've said about, we're going to go back and announce other parliamentary questions, as people are waiting for a solution to the very acute problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u91	Do we have a deal? It's a deal. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Recovery or Recognition of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 1109) is being considered. I am requesting the National Deputy of Ukraine Turman Viktor Ivanovich. An offer is made to consider this issue in a simplified way. May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote on the question, there's one item, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:48:09]] For-144 The decision is not taken. We'll have one item to consider in full. Please Jacinyuk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Even if you haven't voted on the short procedure, under the Rules you'll announce that the time limit is just 5 minutes or 10 minutes, and we'll be through in 10 minutes. Let the head of the committee report and put it to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u93	Is there any objection? Let's see, five minutes, one point. Please report. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u94	Your Honor, your fellow national MPs! Your attention is given to draft Law No. 1109, which has been worked with the Committee on Economic Policy, and it touches on the Banking of Mining Enterprises Act. Before that, we had this law and it was in force until January 1, 2013. The deadline has ended, and so far, 127 coal enterprises have been arrested. This is both the Volinsky Region and the Lviv Region and the Donetsk Region and the Lugansk Region. 300,000 miners may be out of work, out of livelihood. Therefore, a bill has been drafted, one paragraph: we must continue the moratorium on coal enterprises with a term until 2015. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to request that, in considering this bill, all political ambitions be rejected in the term of this law and its vote. I very much ask you, on behalf of 500,000 miners, these are members of more families, please support this bill, allow today's government 127 coal companies to work, extract coal, earn wages and thus stabilize the fuel and energy complex. I beg your pardon. The Profile Committee has considered, decided today to support the bill as a whole. My dears, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u95	Thank you, have a seat. The report is headed by the Economic Policy Committee, Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u96	Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies! The Economic Policy Committee today considered the bill. The findings of science management are positive. The decision was taken unanimously by the Economic Policy Committee. Therefore, we ask for the adoption of the bill 1109 by the Thurmans as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u97	Thank you. Do we need to talk? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to. Then I'd like you to sign up for a discussion. Please, please, Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u98	Dear Members of Parliament, the faction today has decided to support this bill, because we support miners, we support people to have jobs, we support people to have wages. We support the fact that through the arbitrators, through the estate managers, through corrupt courts there is no bankruptcy procedure until a clear state programme is adopted, both for the renewal and modernization of the Ukrainian coal sector. So the faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u99	I'm asking for the Vitalia Klitschka faction, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u100	Vladimir Kurenay, Faction of the Vitalia Klicka Party. Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u101	We're handing over Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u102	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. We understand very well that, unfortunately, this is not the best option for these companies. We also understand and see that there are no ideas in the Government other than the hammocks in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the issues of the coal - mining companies. And that's why, of course, we support this decision today, although once again I say that what is being done in this area today, I don't think the workers themselves -- the miners -- are satisfying, not even society. But we're going to give an alternative to this course, and I hope that society will soon feel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u103	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, Ukrainian Company faction, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to address you first of all to understand what's happening to us. A state-owned enterprise suddenly becomes bankrupt. We must then answer the question of what State policy is taking place in the country and what authorities are doing. And I answer why coal companies are bankrupt today. For one simple reason: they plant the leaders of Fuchs, who executes the order of a certain oligarchic group: where to direct the coal, at what price and how to fish, destroying the coal industry. Therefore, when we ask the coal industry today to help, we must answer the question: Will this be the question of digging in the Lugansk region? Because they've got miners in the trenches, and they're taking coal, and I'm saying 100 bracelets from the miner, through the mine where Fuchs sits, they're transporting that coal, and they're selling it by a half a thousand. Why didn't the Luhansk district attorney and the policeman plant any? We're talking to you about how the law should help the coal industry. Would this ensure the issuance of 5.9 tons of social coal to be spent? Nope. Is that to pay the regressors? Nope. What about the level of wages for miners? You'll see who came and rented the coal business! There were 12,000 wages -- 4,000 today. So is this the coal industry's help or is this just a chat? Let's move on. What about the implementation of the Coal Priorities Act? Why doesn't a trade unionist say that this law is not being implemented? You've introduced him, too! If this law were to be implemented, then it would not be necessary to adopt those amendments. That's why I'm suggesting we stop this whole mess and take the coal industry seriously. Therefore, the Communists propose that it be a public sector, and that it will be decided. Once again, all these years we have supported and now we believe that there is a critical assessment situation, but we must be supported. But the faction will not take part in the vote because we today demand that pension legislation be abolished and that the same miners should return: 55 years and 60 years of retirement for the same men. It's the abolition of medical reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u105	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u106	We also demand today the payment of wages, which amounts to a billion bracelets. This will allow 300 million additional to the same Pension Fund and 150 million to be added to the same local budget. In fact, this will really help miners living today, unfortunately, in depressed cities. I therefore call for an integrated approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u107	Chechatov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Andrei Ponomarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u109	Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I don't have that many questions. It's all clear here. And on the committee, we unanimously voted "Yes." I have more references to my Communist colleagues. Come on. Be consistent. And please veto this vote. You promised all the support in the pre-election races. full support for mining teams. Where's the support? But support only on words. Yes, accept, for under threat, the sword of this problem. Dozens of teams. I'm inviting you! You promised to keep your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u111	It's for a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u112	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleague, I would like to remind you that the Company's faction from 1995 to 1997 fought against what Sterban did as the Governor of the Donetsk Region, when Kuchma agreed to stop the coal subsidies, we recovered these subsidies for the coal industry. And now that the entire coal industry is in private, when today we need to address issues in an integrated manner to ensure a real increase in the standard of living of coal miners, I demand that this be addressed in this way. Today, I have explained the situation to the miners, and I hope they will understand that the issue of the abolition of pension reform must be resolved, and the same medical reform that leads them nowhere to come today. [[B in m in s a l in]] The same special medical facilities to help miners have been destroyed! I therefore reiterate my call to understand what is really going on, and I hope that our electorates will. That they'd remember what mining was like in Soviet times and how the miner was valued. Today, unfortunately, this person is not considered human but used only as a cheap slave.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u113	Igor Miroshnichenko, Freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u115	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u116	Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency. Dear fellow MPs! Regrettably, this bill is not an easy one, and according to it there are a number of observations. That is, we are entering into the norm that violates the Constitution by adopting this law of January 1, 2013 at the rear. So it's already a violation and it's wrong. Sadly, this law is designed to protect not miners, but workers, but miners, as it were, the oligarchs. After all, in this sector, 14 billion have been allocated in the past year alone, and the funds that are practically stolen have been cut off! And this sector is in a state of bankruptcy thanks to exactly the kind of policy that this government is directing today. What's more, we're saying that the law stipulates that 25 percent, no less, should have a share of the government's capital. But tell me, what's the government's capital and it only has 25 percent?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Give the closing statement a minute to Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! I told everyone from the rostrum what the law was for. To avoid paralyzing the coal industry in the form of government property. 300 people, 300,000 miners may be out of a job! [[B in m in s a l in]] It is said that this law does not allow for domestic fuel. I'm reporting to everyone. Over the past year, 100 percent of the 5.9 rate has been paid! On the payroll. In 2012, miners at the level of wages are 3rd place, and after the aircraft, bankers go to the miners. Yes, problems in the coal industry have accumulated for a long time. All Governments have attached a hand to this. And that's the truth, and that's the truth. But today this law is needed as carbon dioxide. Without it, we will destroy the coal industry!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u119	Let's move on to making a decision. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-per-view (for banning the bankruptcy of mining companies) (registration No. 1109) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:02:09]] For 269 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 136, Parenthood – 61, Vitaly Klitschko – 31, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issue of ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the amendment of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas (Registration No. 0015) is being introduced. How will we view it, under the reduced procedure? I'll bet you a vote, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, I'll Please vote. Members of the visa will be, in the first place, likely. [[13:03:19]] For-170. Decision taken. The report is given to the minister in the foreign affairs of Kožari. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u120	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the amendment of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas is before you. The draft of this law is defined in the submission of the President of Ukraine as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Assembling a treaty is a necessary step to further simplify the formulation of Schengen visas for our citizens and is extremely important for the convergence with the European Union countries in the area of human contacts, the intensification of interaction with the European Union in various areas. The bill aims to create a legal basis for the entry into force of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU amending the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas made on 23 July 2012. The renewal of the agreement provides, first and foremost, for recognition of the importance of introducing a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens at the appropriate time, an extension of the categories of Ukrainian citizens who will have the right to facilitate the establishment of free multiple visas, the definition of clear terms of operation of multiple visas for 1 year and 5 years. It used to be, you know, up to 1 year and up to 5 years. Cancelling the expansion of the congregations for the speeding up of visas to all categories of citizens in which the agreement is extended. The possibility of an emergency visa. Regulation of brokers’ activities and restrictions on the value of their services. Ratification of the agreement will be an important step towards a full visa-free regime with the European Union. People's deputies would like to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat. A report by the chairman of the Committee on European Integration. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, this treaty is very important, it has been discussed. At the same time, we could take this deal with you and ratify it eight months ago. But never forget to do what is necessary for citizens. I want to say such an important detail that 9 categories increase the number of population groups that get the opportunity for simplified visa treatment. In addition to existing ones, this applies to students, students, postgraduate students. This applies to representatives of religious communities. This also applies to journalists accompanying journalists, such as sound operators, operators. This also applies to close relatives as well as to persons accompanying Ukrainian citizens who travel systematically or regularly to receive medical care in the countries of the Schengen area in the European Union. Even this list says that this agreement and its ratification are in the interests of all citizens, regardless of where they live, in Donetsk, in Lviv, in Montenegro or in Simferopol. I also want to say that we demonstrated February 22nd in Parliament when we accepted an application to support the conclusion of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, a constitutional majority. That is why I think that the beginning of May is near when we too have to demonstrate that we are fulfilling our commitments. We then committed ourselves to doing everything that depends on the Supreme Council, the criteria for the signing of the agreement. This refers to the issue of politically motivated judgments. This is the question of the solution of Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, now Sergey Vlasenka. This is true of the election in five one --man districts and Kiev. And that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u124	The Committee on European Integration, as well as our colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have considered this issue and have recommended that Parliament adopt this Law on Ratification as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? I won't. Let's move on to making a decision. Please sign up for factions. Leonov, Freedom Union. Do you refuse?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u127	Chewchenko, Freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u128	The Freedom faction. The faction supports the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Amendments to the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas. [[B in m in s a l in]] The right to freedom of movement is an inherent, or natural, right of man. And unlike the North-East Union,*** which threatens to introduce a visa regime since 2015, the European Union, as we see, is gradually going to be true, but to extend the categories of citizens who use the benefits and visa-free regime, we hope that in the fall Ukrainian citizens will all get the right to visa-free treatment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u129	The Fatherland faction, Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u130	Please hand over Arsenia Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u131	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u132	Mr. Chairman, today's ratification of this Treaty is a very important step for Ukrainian citizens to travel visalessly to the member countries of the European Union. And our faction, as one of the major factions in favour of Ukraine's European integration, will of course support this ratification. We have a very serious agenda for European integration, and I would like to stress once again what we are asking the Government of Ukraine to tell us clearly what laws and what deadlines will be drawn up and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The opposition will vote in favour of every bill. But, Mr. Head, at a time when we are voting for the bill to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, very European events are now taking place in the city of Kharkiv. In Kharkiv, unknown persons at the direction of the authorities began a storm, and I emphasize the storm, the office of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers. I appeal to you to take all measures and now to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to the Attorney General and to the head of the Kharkiv District Administration for the purpose of immediately putting an end to the illegal gang activity in relation to the Party of the Fatherland, in relation to Yulia Timoshenko, who is the leader of the Party, and in relation to the people who are now in the city of Kharkiv, the Office of the Area of Liberty, 8. I ask you, as Head of Parliament, to intervene immediately in this situation. Because what we do is we're voting for the European Union, and we're acting like medieval tribes or the Mongol Tatars. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u133	Roger that. I've assigned two deputies to work with the head of the Kharkiv region. Party of regions, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, may I give the floor to John Popescu?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u135	John Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u136	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, our faction will vote in favour of ratifying this treaty. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the principle of defending the interests of our citizens, particularly with regard to the implementation of visa liberalisation. And I'd like to give you some examples. Last year, thanks to this work, the number of countries that have temporarily or completely refused visas for our citizens has increased. The number of visas given to the Schengen countries increased by 178 000, and as a result we received 1.28 million additional visas in that year, the number of refusals decreased to 2 percent. But at the same time, if we just ratify this agreement, we'll also solve the issues of so-called visa centers that work at appropriate embassies, which sometimes put obstacles to getting visas for our citizens. Ratification of this agreement will also provide preconditions for the transition to phase two of the Visa Liberalisation Action Plan for Ukraine, as well as for the introduction of visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens when we meet all the conditions. So one of these conditions is the ratification of this agreement. That's why we're going to vote yes. And we urge all our colleagues not to speculate on this issue, because the Party of Regions is also one of the main ones that came from allowing our citizens to enter the countries of Europe without a visa. Thank you for your attention and for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u137	It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u138	I'd like to give you the word to the head of the Vitaly Klitschk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u139	Please hand over Vitalia Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the UDA Party faction is clearly in favour of simplifying the visa regime for all Ukrainian citizens. We urge all deputies to vote in favour as well. But we have to move on: open up to all citizens of Ukraine European, educational, tourist business space and without obstacles, queues and visas. Therefore, today's proposal: to approve the Supreme Council's application to refuse visas to EU member states for all Ukrainian citizens. This will make our countries closer to one another. The visa-free regime is a level playing field for every Ukrainian to travel freely, to communicate, to feel like a modern European person. We require the President and the government to take all measures to ensure that visas for Ukrainian citizens are cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u141	Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union amending the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on the facilitation of the processing of visas (Registration No. 0015) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:15:59]] For 275 Decision taken. About factions: Region Party – 131, Fatherland – 63, Vitalia Klicka – 36, Freedom – 33, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 12. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, as we agreed, in 15 minutes, I will continue to request from the National Deputies, and we will move on to the performances in the section "Rizzne." Do we have a deal? Sergija Matvienkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation and payment of monthly pension payments to citizens who are subject to the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War. Taras Kutovov to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation by the Lochvitsky Regional Council of the Poltavian Region in the decision to reduce the network of state and municipal health institutions in the Lochvitsky region. Sergey Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister on the critical socio-economic situation in the bourgeois coal complex of Alexandria, Kirovograd. Julius Ljovczany to the Prime Minister regarding the absence of mechanisms for controlling the execution of the contract, which is intended for the construction of the land area, the obligation to contribute to the creation and development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the site. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister for the protection of property rights of members of the labour force State Enterprise "Miogoszczanski izdrom". Jurya Crook to the Prime Minister for the continuation of the construction of a road around the city of Reni. Jury Mikhalčin to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work done in the reconstruction and repair of the roads of municipal property in the city of Lviv as part of the State Target Program for the Euro-2012. Anatolia Vitova and Eduardo Leonov to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Constitution and the laws and illegal introduction of customs into cars. Andrew Ivanchuk and Lilia Greenevich to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the examination of the illegal transplantation of human organs or tissues. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenka, Rosenka, Pavlunka) to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Infrastructure, the head of the Cherka District State Administration for the function of the helicopter range in Caneva, for which the State had allocated 130 million dollars from the budget. Groups of National Deputies (Derevlán, Apostolic, Boyka) to the Prime Minister on the use of urgent measures to prevent violations by the State of labour and socio-economic rights of employees in the Ternopil area and to ensure that they receive legal aid. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Matios, Heratschenko) to the Prime Minister, the Chief Executive, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance, the Head of the Cherkas District Public Administration for non-compliance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve organizational and financial concerns for patients with chronic kidney disease. Groups of National Deputies (Kwalczuka, Heratschenko and others – 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister on the non-reduction of budget workers and the rise in unemployment in Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Heratchenko, Rosenka) to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Administration on the unjustified increase in the number of employees of the Central Executive Authority and the Office of the President. Igor Krivetsky and Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister on the need to take measures to preserve Galicina's architecture. Groups of National Deputies (Rosenka, Heraszczenko, Pavlenko) to the Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the State Migration Service for the immediate restoration and payment of child support. Igora Sharova and Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the situation in the area of social protection of war veterans in the area of car security in Afghanistan with a view to implementing their full right to special-purpose insurance. Igora Sharova and Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister on the need to ensure full compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, for the purpose of social and legal protection of victims of repression. Sergija Matvienkova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the unlawful collection of wages for the trust of consumers of utilities. Groups of National Deputies (Kwalczuka, Rosenka and others) to the Prime Minister and the Head of Administration on the failure to carry out the President's mandate to increase scholarships to students. Alexander Sich and Bogdan Benyuk to the Prime Minister for the non-admission of mass layoffs from the Prikarpatsky Storm Management of the private stock company Ukrnafta, the liquidation of the Supernatural Expedition of Storm Management, the transfer of oil wells of the private stock company Ukrnafta to other companies. Gennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Energy, Minister of Finance, National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the need to consider the collective appeal of residents of the village of Ropč Strážinetsky district of Chernivecki district in connection with the gasification of the area. Edward Gurvitz to Vice Prime Minister Alexander Vilkul of Ukraine on the non-admission of the destruction of architecture on the street of Greece, 33 in the city of Odessa. Andrija Pavlovski, head of the Court of Auditors for information on the use of funds allocated in 2010-2012 from the State Budget of the All-Ukrainian Public Organization of the Union of Chernobyl Ukraine. Victor Baloga to the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine on the abuse of justice by judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Andrija Shipka to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of a citizen who has suffered a crime. Vladimir Kupczak to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Vassil Petrovka to the head of the High Council of Justice on the abuse of justice by the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. Olga Mikhailenko, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, on the violation of legislation in the removal of land. Andrija Tabalova to the minister of regional development for the construction of mansard floors in the children’s institutions of the city of Kirovgrad. Andrija Tabalova to the minister of regional development for the construction of basic mobile network stations in Kirovograd. Valentina Queen to Minister of Infrastructure for the restoration of the movement of Ddolbonov - Red and Red - Plain - Ddolbonov. Valeria Calchenk to the minister of infrastructure for the railway connection of Kirovograd Kiev. Vasjunnik's Igor to the Minister of Infrastructure for the free maintenance of the Lviv Airport. People’s Deputies Groups (Sulga, Miroshnichnikka) to the Minister of Infrastructure, Director-General of the Railway Administration, for the restoration of the previous timetable of the Sumi-Kyiv train. Lydia Kotelak to the Minister of Infrastructure for the Capital Repair of the Red-Zoloche Region of Lviv. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to prevent citizens from free accessing Montenegro on March 9, 2013. Romana Ilika to the Minister of Infrastructure for the restoration of cancelled railway flights to the resort city of Truscavets Valentina Navejchenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the need to take urgent measures to protect the constitutional rights of Oksana Filatova. Alexia Kayda to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on providing information on the creation of an alternative initiative group for the preparation and holding of meetings, the formation of a new composition of the public council at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Peter Simonnck to the Minister of Internal Affairs about the improper response of law enforcement authorities to the commission of an offence. Vasil Samylenk to the Ministry of Health for the Closure of Stationary Treatment in Ignatpolska, Itravian, and other rural hospitals in the district of Orutsky. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Health and the concept of the State Target Social Programme for Prevention, Diagnostic and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis in the Makarovsky and Fastiv areas of the Kyiv region. Vasil Samylenk to the Ministry of Health on illegal actions by the authorities in connection with the closure of the district hospital in the village of Doubish, U.S.A. Oleg Heleway to the Ministry of Health on the need to take measures to ensure proper treatment for patients with tuberculosis dispensaries in Kiev. Olga Mikhailenko to the Ministry of Security. The reform of the National Sanitary Epidemiology Station in the Chaplin district of Herson. Alexander Dove to the Ministry of Security. on the non-admission of a closed clinic in the city of Ilowaysk Donetsk region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the use of measures to accelerate the privatisation of the state-owned enterprise Novotortortoryski in the village of the city-type Lubar, Žitomir district. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the promotion of the removal of land from the state-owned enterprise "Liktrava", the city of Mostyska Lvivské district. Oleg Medunica to the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine regarding the participation of officials in a criminal group designed to dissipate funds. Igor Miroshnicka to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly for the conduct of the verification and reporting of taxes and revenue collection of football players at the Arsenal Club Kyiv and football clubs "Shakhtar" Donetsk, "Dnipro" Dnipropetrovsk, "Metalist" Kharkiv, "Dinamo" Kiev received in Ukraine as a salary. Igor Schwaika to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade on the inefficient use of international technical assistance during the construction of the laboratory. Ministry of Health. Alexia Kayda to the Minister of Justice on the restoration of the violated rights of the Ternopileletrotrans Enterprises of the Ternopil City Council. Under the contract of financial leasing for the supply of trolleybuses from LAS Finance, Communiqués and Ukrainian Commercial Cars. Oleg Kanovtsa and Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister of Justice for Information on the Number of Officially Registered National Minority Unions in the Government. Yes, let's move on to the "Victory" section. I'm asking the deputies to sign up. I'm asking the MPs to sign up. Rules - 30 minutes. Three minutes? Did you sign up? Yeah, until tonight, no problem, we'll be sitting by tonight. Recorded from the rostrum, 65 people were enrolled. The rostrum is three minutes. Please, Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Today you're the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u142	Thank you. Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. I would certainly like to support our colleagues who have ripped out their emotions after today's government report, and I would like to understand that in this mode we still don't need government reports here. For half an hour, officials are drumming us with some of the leaves, and in fact, there is no time left for the Ukrainian national deputies to ask their own questions. The other one. I would like to support my colleagues, Hanna Herman and Igor Jeremeyev, as regards the absolutely hammish speech of the Minister of Social Policy of Natalia Royal. Unfortunately, I couldn't say it in her presence, but I'm going to have to deal with her in absentia. And that's the main question. Ukraine’s national deputies asked her one specific question. Today, because of a bard in the Ministry of Social Policy, Ukraine has entered the epicenter of an international scandal. As long as the minister is not able to understand his mandate, no humanitarian aid has been cleared in four months. The Queen told us about some limousines, Cadillacs, and Mercedes. I realize that it's in her head just some Mercedes and Cadillacs, and puppy feed, but it's actually all about other things. Today, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, including the Chernobylites, the warlords, the disabled, the orphans, the low-income families, they can't get humanitarian aid. These are primarily wheelchairs, medical supplies, specialized nutrition for children with disabilities, and other vital care. For two months, imagine two months at Odessa Customs, it's $6 million worth of sugar diabetes for 100,000, and today the Royals tell us about some Mercedes. This is about people with diabetes. I'd like to ask Vladimir Vasilovich, or the honourable presidency, to check out the information that the Royal One has given us. She said that 300 kinds of goods are scattered today. The other night, on the day before yesterday on the committee, her deputy spoke of two types of goods of 500 that were blurry. So someone's lying to us, or the Queen's, or her deputy. I'm asking you to look into this and draw the following conclusions. Obviously, we don't have any questions about this minister. We have long realized that she is not competent and, along with the government, she must resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u143	Party of regions, Haydos. Please. After him, Osuhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u144	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, distinguished listeners, as a representative of the Hungarian community of Ukraine, I cannot help but shed tears at the event that took place on 16 March this year in Uzhgrad and on the Coast. The fact is that in recent years the radical political forces have corrupted the monuments of the Hungarians in Zakarpatta. Sadly, last Saturday this negative wave went to a completely different level. This time it was directed at people. What's even more sad is against children and women, including Hungarian citizens. Please tell me, can you think of normal people who abuse a child and her mother? Is it possible to view the true patriots of those who are offended as intimidating foreigners rather than showing their hospitality and culture? In addition to the evening of the same day, Freedom organized in the town of Beregovo, which is the spiritual and cultural center of the Hungarians. Her media participants, particularly Mukachevo.net, shouted among others, "One language, one nation, one Motherland is Ukraine!" And also, "Remember, stranger, this is the master of the Ukrainian." Regarding the first slogan, I want to point out that it is very similar to that of Adolf Hitler's supporters in their time. From history, we know the tragedies that human loss has led to in the end. It's about a foreigner. I want to emphasize, although I am a Hungarian by nationality, but I live in Ukraine on my home land, on the Coast, where my grandparents lived. At the same time as the rest of the Hungarians, I am a citizen of Ukraine. I fear for our country, I want it to be successful, prosperous, and a full member of the European family of nations. I am sure that the position of the marginals is not the position of the whole of Ukraine. So I urge all the political forces of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to condemn the misdemeanors of young people, to separate themselves from the forces behind them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u145	Freedom, Osuhovski. Please. After him, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u146	Congratulations, Your Honor! Oleg Osuhovski. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 152 constituency, Rowne. I am the head of the Committee on Organized Crime and Corruption. And actually, I'd like to negotiate for corruption. That's what happened yesterday, for the initiative of our committee, a round table with representatives of the public, with law enforcement agencies, with judges. The theme was corruption. Corruption today in Ukraine devours the Ukrainian state and every Ukrainian. Corruption is from Mezigir, and it ends with the village council. If we assume that corruption is very much embedded in the economy, because it's being destroyed and being pursued very seriously in Ukraine for today's business, it's taking business in Ukrainian businessmen, entrepreneurs are closing their own business because they can't work in these conditions. And actually investors don't want to go to the Ukrainian market today. As we have now. The European Development and Reconstruction Bank in Ukraine invested $35 billion in the Ukrainian economy in 2012. But so far they are refusing, as Deputy Director Graham Hatchison stated that he would not finance Ukraine unless corruption was overcome in Ukraine. I want to give you an example of the Plains region. I, as a district council member, of the Ravenna District Council, have turned to the Regional Audit Authority on the inefficient use of funds. You know what they gave me? Two years later, it was ineffectively used and more popularly stolen, 700 million dollars. And just because we were taking care of it, we made a call to the Attorney General's Office, to the U.S.S.A., only about 100 million were returned to the U.S.M.S. But 600 million dollars is stolen money from the Ukrainian people, from the Ukrainian state, from government money. Corruption today is in the courts. Now we have the example of the city of Kuznietsov, where the Kuznietsov City Council deputies expressed their mistrust to the city’s head four times. He's suing, corrupt courts admit he's the rightful head, and we can't take that head off. Dear society, together with the public, along with the MPs, I am addressing you, the majority MPs, first of all, make the same call to the control room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u147	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Horin passed it on to Zurawski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national electorate, I would like to make it clear that today's leadership of the Ministry of Health has led the President to reform the country's health system, unfortunately, to fail. I want to emphasize, not because the ideology of reform itself is bad, but because the Ministry of Health does not adequately coordinate it. Today, unfortunately, this ministry does not control what is happening in the regions, does not properly explain to the population, with the public about the promotion of reform, and why it is necessary. As a result, Ukrainian national deputies will receive a mass of complaints from different regions. For example, there is a massive closure of hospitals and other medical facilities, a mass reduction of health workers, and so on. However, the reform did not in any way foresee or foresee the closure of medical facilities, which, according to the Constitution, should be preserved. It can only be an optimisation of the activities of these institutions. In fact, the development of primary health care based on general medical practice, family medicine, has been discredited. The pace and quality of the training needed remain unsatisfactory. Mass appeals from citizens come about the absence of appropriate medicines, medical equipment. There is a question of the effectiveness and purpose of the use of public funds allocated to the Ministry of Health for appropriate public procurement. Another extremely negative result of the poor work of the MOH in Ukraine is the fact that the population is not fully refused preventive vaccination. As a result, the epidemic of deadly diseases, such as diphtheria, polio, and many others, can threaten Ukraine in the near future. So I think it's time to ask the director of the ministry about this situation for all the troubles and bring him to justice for what's going on in this area. The ILO management should eventually stop doing business and trade alone and understand that the ministry should become a work headquarters, a methodological focal point with development and sector reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u149	Party of regions, Greenewecki, National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u150	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the Party of Regions, 134 Malinovsky constituency, Odessa. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The political elite traditionally has one of the responsibilities of being an example to others. Regrettably, this task of the modern - day Ukrainian political elite is not doing enough, and all its national energy is devoted to demonstrations of state incompetence. Of course, we can solve procedural issues with fists and pushers. But let us not forget that the country is looking at us and that our conduct is followed by the deputies of local councils. An excellent example. Literally in the Odessa region, the issue of the retirement of the village head is accompanied by a battle with the use of mucous gas. I realize that the Supreme Council has been upgraded to nearly two thirds, and some of my colleagues are trying to make up for the lack of experience in eliminating political hormones and excessive effects. But we need to return to our direct responsibilities — legislative activity. There was a Council of Regions meeting yesterday, at which the President of Ukraine again asked questions about the reform of local self-government. By the way, these problems were also highlighted in the President's letter to today's Supreme Council, which, unfortunately, none of the deputies mention, because probably no one reads. Today, in the Supreme Council, half the deputies are senior officials, who work directly with local governments, and they know their problems. During the pre-election campaign, we could make sure that the local councils work ineffectively not only because of the subjective factors or the unprofessionalism of officials but also because of the very objective reasons — the lack of authority, the lack of financial base, and so forth. Who, like us, are interested in establishing effective and effective local self - government today. Maybe we should start with the capital. For two weeks now, the question of how and when to choose Kyivrada and Kiev’s city head has been discussed. The Supreme Council, in fact, was trapped when the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev, went against the rules governing the activity of local self-government and, in some matters, logic in general. This creates the basis for different legal coalitions and political speculations, so maybe before we consider the date of the election, we have to decide with the city management system. The capital has specific functions, the central government, foreign representations, this is the heart of the country. With all due respect for national will, we already had Kiev's confirmation of the aphorism that "democracy is the right to make the wrong choice." Dear colleagues, our country is in too difficult a situation to spend time and energy on infertile quarrels, so return to normal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u152	the rebirth of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u153	Freedom Union, Illenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u154	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev, 215 constituency. Dear colleagues, before I actually do my speech, I'm going to comment a little bit on what was said here by a national MP who was false to "Freedom" about having someone beat up on Zacarpatta and so on. It doesn't fit with reality, read our official press releases carefully, we've corrected this slander. The only thing that anyone mentioned here was Hitler, and so on, yes, maybe reminds whose ally Hungary was and who she was with, in particular, occupying Ukraine, the Carpathian Ukraine in 1939, was drowning in blood six months before World War II? Perhaps if there was a better memory, there would be no such nonsense here in the Supreme Council to claim. But actually, I would like to talk about the problems of Kiev, which today is probably the biggest problem in Ukraine, because the city of Kiev is completely deprived of local self-government. Since 2010, after the Party of Regions in Kiev has come to power in Ukraine, the nation has been completely destroyed. Since then, we haven't actually got a city head, it's been de jure for a year. The city of Kiev is ruled by an illegal man who was not chosen by the Chinese, who was destroyed by the district councils. In fact, Kyivrada, which is valid today, is an entirely illegal body that deals exclusively with corruption, a derelict in private interests, and does not reflect the choice of sneezes. To date, we know that Kiev is the only city in Ukraine, the only region in Ukraine, which is 50 percent of the income tax of individuals in the state budget, more than eight billion dollars a year, and actually Kiev is just robbing, in fact, the regime and not getting these eight billion kyans of money earned into its budget. Today, we see that Kiev has become the center of the rubble of land and utilities. We see examples like those of the guest house. We see illegal fences, we see raiding. And this is all happening in our capital out of the oppression and corruption of today's government. To date, we understand that the last thing left in the kyan is the right to choose power, and the Party of Regions will usurp and won't let us do it. We know that yesterday, in fact, they didn't want to immediately appoint elections in Kiev, and they're trying to push this issue as long as possible, put it as far away as possible. But I'm sure the Chinese won't be able to take it anymore. And in fact, everyone has found that politics is governed by today’s authorities, as it wants to take the right to choose its power in the kyans. We're waiting until April 2nd -- this is the last time we can legitimately decide the elections on June 2nd -- and in fact, April 2nd, we call on all the Chinese to come to the Supreme Council at 10 a.m. and ask the Party of the Regions not to block the election process in Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that many others are still speaking, so I continue to work at the session until 14.15 p.m. Stoyan, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u156	Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the Party of the Regions, a representative of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions in the Supreme Council on social foundations. Dear colleagues, and today the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions remains the most mass social organization. Regrettably, unlike political parties, it has no legislative initiative, so there is a need to have a representative of its own to make proposals for labour and social protection for workers. I agreed to be a representative of Parliament. Now it's essentially a question. The first question is what is the Federation of Trades and Other Trades in Ukraine. We need to confirm the new size of the consumer basket in the near future this year. I will remind you that this consumer basket, its value, has not been reviewed since 2000. And so, of course, it has a living minimum of 15 to 20 percent. From there is a minimum pension, a minimum wage, and other social benefits. Moreover, the Federation of Trade Unions insists, and our committee supports finally bringing the minimum of living into line with the working person and the first rate of tariff grid in the budget area. Second offer. Dear colleagues, the trade unions are proposing to amend the Law on Restoration and Recognition of the Debtor. What we're talking about is that it's declared bankrupt by an enterprise, it's eliminated -- and it's still owed to the people of work. We insist that when an enterprise is eliminated or reclassified, the first payment of the salary will be made. The third proposal that trade unions insist on is the immediate adoption of the law. The Labour Code. I'm here to confront our Communist colleagues. I don't understand why they're so clinging to the Labour Code of the '70s that doesn't work anymore. Today, new forms of property, new relationships, came up with the notion of "employers." My colleague Suhim and I have introduced a new version of the Labour Code, and in the coming days it will be discussed in the Ukrainian trade unions, and we would like to be supported. And the fourth offer, dear colleagues. You know, there's been a hell of a fight around the property of the unions lately. It's a sanatorium, it's a health facility that works in the interests of workers today. I want to say that 100 lawsuits today, and they're taking away the premises, the sanatoriums, that sort of thing. So, on behalf of the trade unions, I put in a bill amending the Trades Act, and I'm willing to meet all the factions to convince them that we have to stop the abuse. Because the sanatorium is owned by workers, and the workers are managed by trade unions. I would very much ask all the colleagues of all the political forces to support the proposals offered by the Ukrainian labour unions, which are aimed at social protection for workers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u157	Freedom Union, Martinks. Who? Kirilenko, please, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u158	I would like to address the members of the Supreme Council, as well as the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, and see my appeal today as a request from a national deputy who will be registered and has already been recorded. I'm talking about a systematic violation of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Status Act and the Local Self-Government Act. The thing is, systematically, local councils of different levels -- urban, district -- do not allow people's deputies to attend their meetings. Yes, yesterday in the village of the Cominternov district, criminal acts were committed against my assistants who came to the village council meeting. Instead, the head of the district administration of the Kominternovsky Morzak arrived at the same meeting, who, apart from my assistants, instructed me not to allow certain deputies of the village council, as well as the head of the village council of Kominnovska Kalashnikov. All of this took place in order to hold a court to remove the head of the village council of Kalashnikov for the unsatisfactory results of the 2012 elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the party of its own did not get the result that it would like to receive. As a result, unknown individuals in the state were not missed by the press, the deputies, the head of the village council of Cominternovsky, and the assistants of the people’s deputy. They used mucous gas, resulting in one of the assistants in the hospital. I want to point out that the same things happened on February 19th, when my assistants were not allowed to attend the Odessa City Council session. And I would also like to stress how dangerous such actions were when I was personally prevented from attending the Odessa City Council session on December 21, 2012, when the whole of Ukraine saw the reaction of the Ukrainian community to such illegal acts, and, in fact, when I personally tried to enter the door, which should be open during working hours. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if this continues, there will be a social explosion in Ukraine very soon, and the people will not tolerate such action. This will end. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u159	Ukraine's Company, the People's Deputy of Bidyovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u160	Dear President, distinguished members of the Supreme Council! Against the background of State-wide issues, we must not forget with you the problems that exist in the regions. The inhabitants of the Soviet district of Makeevka visited me at the reception. In the centre of the village along the street of Čkalov, 2 GS Energocapital illegally built an industrial complex for the disposal of shale waste from coal metal production, which is in fact a metal mill for the production of iron with three domain furnaces. This complex significantly worsens the environmental condition of the region and harms the health of citizens. [[B in m in s a l in]] The residents of the village of Konjongkov cannot stay in houses, apartments, courtyards. Constantly strong noise and emissions of harmful substances create intolerable living conditions and normal living conditions for 4 schools, 3 kindergartens and about 40,000 inhabitants of the region. Where people have not turned, both to the district and to the city's head. But there's a train right now. It's absurd. The response given to voters under the signature of a city head as early as June last year notes that the complex poses an increased risk and must undergo a mandatory comprehensive self-expertise that it has not undergone. Moreover, the State Environmental Inspectorate in Donetsk noted that the construction of the facility had begun without the positive results of a comprehensive examination. Which is a violation of the law. How could it be that environmentally hazardous production had been built and worked in the centre of a residential settlement without any positive responses and self-expertism? Why is it possible for the city’s head and deputy corps to feed on the health of its citizens? Where's the D.A.'s office?Oh, my God! On behalf of the inhabitants of the village of Konjongkov, Makeevka, I demand that the legality of the production be checked and that measures be taken to halt the construction and operation of the specified complex in the residential area. Please consider my statement as an official request to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Regrettably, the "Freedom" choral escort says that they are "on the drum" to the problems of Russian-speaking areas and millions of citizens! Here we go, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u161	Freedom Union, Freedom Union, Sabia. National MP Sabi, please. Now the Bureau will scream.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian community! Today, the minister of health told us, lectured on the very good, from her point of view, and from the point of view of the Yanukovic regime, the reform of the health system. In fact, this is not a reform of the health system. In fact, it is the destruction of a network of health facilities. We know that under the Ukrainian Health Reform Act an experiment was to be carried out in the Winnitsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk oblasts and the city of Kiev. Only after summarizing the experiment did this experiment have a positive conclusion to spread throughout Ukraine. Instead, despite the numerous complaints made by the people of all four areas in Ukraine, the introduction of this illegal reform began to be sluggish. In fact, it's not like one MP here today said it's an optimisation. It's not optimization, it's destruction. And destruction, not even looking at the standards that they have set for themselves. In particular, last year at the Biological Central District Hospital in Hmielnicke district, despite the fact that the area had 305 births, births, apologies, at the necessary 300, the maternity ward was closed. The question is now about the closure of the 1st of April maternity wards in the Starosinjavsky and Novouszyc region. In addition, health workers believe that the standards do not apply to maternity wards in the Letician region, the Chemerovets region, and the Deražnjan district of the Hmelnick region. First of all, I have a question. Why, who designed such standards? Secondly, in what way can childbirth reach a maternity home that is located 100 kilometers away from a settlement on the current roads, which are not actually roads, but no roads? In a situation where an ambulance, an ambulance system, has been virtually destroyed, there is no local transportation. In addition, the destruction of the district hospitals continues at Hmelničina. In particular, from April 1st, they are scheduled to close the district hospital in the Isiaslav Region of Biograd, in the Polonsky region, in the Antony Krasilov region. All of this is not about reform, all of this is evidence of destruction. In 2011, the area was reduced by 500 beds and in 2012 by 500 beds. This is done by the head of the Jaduk administration on telephone instructions, without a basis and unlawfully. We believe that this reform should be halted, so on March 28th, during the "Freedom" District Council session, the district council, the district administration, will have to stop the robbery.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u163	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. In each event, every phenomenon has its causes, its development, and its consequences. We know that self - government has been destroyed in Kiev. At first, the Kyiv City Council was corrupt by the authorities of Czernovecki and his associates from the Party of Regions because they always voted together, as well as some of the sellers from other factions. District councils were then destroyed. Today, the possibility for the Chinese to choose their power is deliberately eliminated, starting with the mayor and ending with the Kyiv City Council and the district councils and perhaps implementing committees that would be just. Why is this being done? You know that local self - government is said to be on three whales. It's money, it's finance. It's property. And this is the earth. Yeah, look what's going on in Kiev with these three whales. Kiev’s finances are now under government control. Mikola Janović Azarov conducted an interesting policy, which led to the loss of one of the most sustainable sources of income from the population under the Kiev Budget Code. In fact, 50 percent of this tax is collected annually in the amount of 8 or 6 billion dollars each year. No city in Ukraine is covered with such a meal, I would say a Tatar meal for the city of Kiev, except Kiev. And then this money comes back gradually to objects that are usually put under construction by their firms. Thus, it seems that money has returned to Kiev, but at the same time, companies from other regions are making money. Kiev’s builders sit without money. Next. Let's go back to this thing like property. See, on the embroidery, which is the historical value of Ukraine, and not only Ukraine, but the world's historical value, a few buildings exploded, and the center wanted to build one outstanding operator from Donetsk, and today it is rebuilding the Central Universages in Kiev. And he's out-owned by Kievenergo Holding, which is a huge structure in Kiev that has a thousand units. So we're seeing another process that's interesting in property. As far as the earth is concerned, the processes are even deeper. After all, you can see how the suburban area is being captured today. There's a fight for the land that's still here. In fact, the master plan has been destroyed and another document is being reviewed today -- the master plan, which is created by a different structure than the master plan management of the General Plan Institute, which has been operating in Kiev for decades. So, here comes Kiev's capture. What, though, allows such policies and policies to be pursued? But only that there is no council or city head in Kiev, but only the authorities of the Party of the Regions are sent here. Therefore, dear friends, we need to understand why this is done, why it is done. Only with one goal is to take possession of property, land, finance, and to throw the problems of sneezes into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u165	The Freedom Union. Head? But I see Benjuk is coming, I think he's going to play. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u166	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the situation that has arisen today, unfortunately, in Ternopils. What has been going on for the past two years is the full legal vachanal of power, namely, the head of the administration, which is headed by Valentin Hoptian today. Legislation is being violated today. For more than two years, the members of the Ternopil District Council have no right to join the District Council: 19 deputies. And that's why today, unfortunately, Ternopolska is the only area that hasn't approved the budget and we don't have a socio-economic development programme, according to medical reform, other important social programs that our country needs today. Sadly, though, this situation still seems to be a mere political order. Because the territorial election commission for two years, headed by a representative of the Communist Party, did not meet, did not introduce deputies. And now, under the pressure of the Freedoms faction, The CEC has changed the composition of the territorial commission, and most of them have remained behind the majority of the authorities, who are also ignoring and are not currently attending meetings of the territorial commission, and they are not being introduced into the district council. Accordingly, the head of the party district organization Valentin Hoptyan, who gave a personal commission that MPs did not come to the meetings of the territorial commission and were not introduced into the district council. Instead, we see what is happening in our country. Hospitals are closing today, schools are closing down. In Pocajevi, where the city has such a touristic all - Ukrainian significance, over a million pilgrims arrive each year, the Pocajevo Hospital, namely, the surgical and maternity ward, closes today at the direction of the administration. That is, all the pilgrims who will arrive there will not be able to obtain medical care from both locals and neighboring villages. Hospitals are also closed in other cities — both in Shumsk and Podvolocsky, in Skalata, today in the village of Zbarazki district of Maximovka. There are orders for the head of the administration to cut 600 beds. That is, at the same time, when people may have their last income, the last penny to feed their loved ones. At the same time, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on February 6. As the head of the administration, he got caught up for the worst performance indicators under the regional development programme. 70 percent of the funds were unrealized, more than 50 million dollars to go to places where people had to go to social sites where people were to receive their wages, but unfortunately those funds returned to Kiev. At the same time, with regard to social programs and subsidies, Ternopilska received no money. It's almost the genocide of our country. And this irresponsible position of leadership of today’s land leads to such a situation in Ternopilla. So, of course, we turn to both the prosecutor’s office and other law enforcement agencies to test this criminal inaction today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u167	Let me finish. All of them? [[Applause]] Blackwolf, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u168	Dear friends, I am addressing audiences, viewers, today when the Minister of Health spoke, a faction of the Party of Regions shouted, "Fashists! Fascists!" So I realized that it was at the government's address that I was trying to explain my failed experiment in medicine at the time. You know, if you think about the governments that did the medical experiments, we can only mention one government -- this is the Fascist government of Adolf Hitler during World War II. And this, not over his own people, but over those imprisoned in concentration camps. So what I'm saying is that the Ukrainian government went beyond that, it didn't just do it over its own people, it did it in its own capital. And you know, in connection with that, I'm talking about this old anecdote, this Soviet anecdote, how did Grandpa get to the secretary of heaven and ask, who invented this socialism by Bolsheviks or scientists? He says, of course, Bolsheviks. And Grandpa says, "Here I am telling my grandmother, Bolsheviks, because scientists would check on dogs first." So I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, if you're already shouting "fascists," try to explain to your government such things as social experiments, including rising retirement age and so on, because you have to be very careful, these are still living people, your citizens, and, after all, your electorates. So, in addition to everything else, you do it in the capital, and not just a medical experiment, but financial experiments, budgetary experiments. All regions of Ukraine receive 100 percent of their income tax. And so Kiev was 20 years old until the Party of Regions came in 2010 and wrote that Kiev needs, in the state budget, not to be redistributed to other regions, as some want to say that Kiev has a better life, but simply to take 50 percent of its income from individuals, which is 8 billion dollars. Eight billion dollars in a city where you can't go because you don't have roads. Eight billion dollars in a city where you can't even cross roads, because the traffic, because this city needs new bridges, it needs a district road and not one, and there's no one that needs a subway station that needs to be built in different directions, because around the world, people are traveling in such big cities on the subway. In which there are no clean-up facilities, and this could be a nationwide disaster all over the South and East Ukraine if the Aeration Station flies. And it's really a huge danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u169	Freedom Union, Orphanage.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u170	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Only the invaders do not speak the language of the people in their territory. What is happening today in the Ukrainian Parliament is clear evidence that unpunished evil always has the property to return. What Ukrainians who speak their native language in the 1980s are called Fascists is evidence that until we overcome the effects of occupation, until we overcome the evil of Soviet and Bolshevik regimes, it will always come back, and that every Ukrainian on their land who honors their parents, honors their history, honors their heroes who speak their native language, will always be called fascists. Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! This year we celebrate the 80th anniversary of the day of the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. All year long, all meetings of power, the President, the government must begin with respect for the Ukrainians who destroyed the Soviet, Bolshevik occupation regime. And while there will be at least one Lenin monument in the territory of Ukraine, as long as the memorials of the executioners of the Ukrainian people stand, as long as the stars hang over the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will be a symbol of humiliation, a symbol of the continuation of our occupation. But we should also keep in mind that the invaders fight against everything completely. Next year we're going to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday. How does today’s authorities view Taras Shevchenk? For the first time in Ukraine’s history of independence, the President did not place flowers in Taras Shevchenk’s monument in Kiev. For the first time in the history of Ukraine’s Independence in the village where Taras Shevchenko was born, local residents were banned from reading Shevchenk’s poems as revolutionary. We see what's going on. I'm authorized in the Cherkas region. No official in the Cherkas region speaks Ukrainian – in the country where Taras Shevchenko was born, in the country where Bogdan Hmelnitsky lived, in the Cossack region of Tolub and all his supporters lead, speak Russian, act as invaders. What does this lead to? Because the occupation has a total attack on everything — social rights, national rights. In the Cherkas region, there's the Fresenius Hospital, where they're helping people with renal insufficiency. One day of failure to provide help to such a person may result in fatal consequences, death, and death. Occupyant Tulub banned a hospital that could provide quality services to provide dialysis for the sick. of renal insufficiency. Because you have to take the "off" because you have to take the Ukrainians' lives. And so the invaders will be. And so it will be until we stop this occupation. I would like to invite all Ukrainians to another anniversary, this year's anniversary of "the cradle." If the authorities act like invaders, if in the walls of this hall, the higher legislature, they disrespect our language, our history, we should remember the example of our parents and celebrate the anniversary of the cradle. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-22-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up, so I think so. Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, April 2, at 10 a.m. I wish you all good and thank you for your work.
