ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u1	Invite the deputies to the session room. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:57]] There are 346 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, allow me to make an announcement. As you know, on February 8, 2013, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine declared unreliable the results of Ukraine's national election on October 28, 2012 in one-man election districts, number 11 and 71, established by the Central Electoral Commission. This decision also annulled the CEVC Order of 23 November of Ukraine for the one-man election district No. 11 of Dombrovsky and the CEVC Order of 22 November 2012 No. 1978 in part of the registration of the elected Ukrainian People's Deputies for the one-man election district No. 71 of the Baloga Pavel Ivanovich Status and Powers of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and obliges the CEVC to take action with the preparation and conduct of the re-election of the Ukrainian People's Deputies in one-man election districts No. 11, 71 in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. In view of the irregularity of such a court decision, I initiated the appeal of a group of Ukrainian national deputies with appropriate submissions to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, by a resolution of 24 April 2013, noted that according to the relevant regulations in the Constitution of Ukraine, a person is elected by the Ukrainian national deputy and is given a parliamentary mandate by the will of the electorate. It is only possible to gain the status of Ukrainian national deputy as a legal result of its election, which took place on the basis of the general equal and direct right to vote by secret ballot and under the conditions provided for by the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, that allow for a credible establishment of the will of the electorate. The situation of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine extends solely to a person elected by the Ukrainian national deputy in a legitimate manner, including through the election and the credible results of the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the appropriate constituency. In June of this year, the same prosecutor who initiated the appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine applied to the district administrative court of the 100th Kiev with a summons to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the third person to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the recognition of unlawful activity and to the obligation to take action. By order of the Administrative Court on June 11, 2013, the plaintiff’s application was granted, and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to take action to prevent the execution of Dombrovsky and Baloga in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I have filed an appeal against this decision, which, by the approval of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 21 June 2013, was without satisfaction, and the decision of the District Administrative Court of Kiev of 11 June was unchanged. I have had a cassation complaint requesting the annulment of the Kyiv Court of Appeal since 21 June 2013 and the referral of the case to the Court of Appeal. By the approval of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine since 2 July 2013, the appeal of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been unsatisfying and the previous court ruling on the case has not changed. The acceptance of an accusation under the law is not lawful. Accordingly, according to part five of article 124 of the Constitution, judicial decisions are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. In this regard, I am ordering you to cancel your personal ballot cards, Mr. Alexander Georgievovich Dombrowski, Mr. Pavel Ivanovich Baloga, at the same time suspend the authorization of assistant consultants working in accordance with Dombrovski and the Balogya. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Party of regions, National Deputy Koleznichenko. I beg of you, National Deputy Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u2	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, we today face serious responsibility for future elections in Ukraine not only for the reason you just sounded but also for the fact that, in fact, today, the head of the Central Electoral Commission has gone beyond the age stipulated by the law and the Constitution to carry out his duties. Therefore, I ask you, Vladimir Vasilovich, to consider today the question of the replacement of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. In addition, it is our duty to have seven districts in Ukraine now with the right to have their representatives in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we have no right to delay this issue. That's why we promised our colleagues from the European community. Today, indeed, we have to live today. But I have the impression that our individual politicians are still living in the past and are provoking certain situations. It's different when it comes to court decisions. I'll be honest, I didn't like the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on December 4th and January. January 21, 2005. I am convinced that his decision was then displeased by the leaders of all three opposition factions, because you felt what Yushchenko was and everything that had to do with him. But that is, thank God, in the past. We have to forget about the election races. But I have the impression that the individual political power is still living in the pre-election race, still living in the electoral process, and today it doesn't want compromise. I understand it's very difficult to find a compromise at Savik's T.C. Show, but that's what's left of the past. And now there are realities. And I'm definitely against it. And the Party of Regions will never allow us to ignore the choice of our citizens. We respect the 10 percent that have today supported the most incomprehensible political power. But we respect your voters, and you have to respect the rest of the Ukrainians. Today, as was fulfilled by the adoption of a law that settled a language issue in Ukraine. [[Speaks in Foreign Languages]] And I want to tell you that you won't do anything to break us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u4	Today Europe has already said that you are strangers to them. Do not become strangers to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u5	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shipko. Please, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the people! Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Hipko Andrei, 35 constituency. [[B in m in s a l in]] 35 constituency, Dnipropetrovska oblast, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear voters, dear colleagues! Today I want to sharpen your attention to the problem of forging drugs, because it's not a fake purse or a mobile phone. False medical devices are a direct threat to health and even to human life. When drug users sell chalk, patients do not get the treatment they need, and sometimes this can lead to death. That's why my personal attitude towards forgers is clear, it's not just criminals, it's killers. And we need to fight them properly. Since 2011, counterfeiting in Ukraine has been considered a criminal offence that is now punishable by deprivation of liberty under the age of 12 years. In the same year, President Viktor Yanuković's decree created the central executive body, the State Medical Service. At the same time, we are constantly promoting cooperation with foreign colleagues because the problem of counterfeiting is international. And then I want to talk about the most important problems that need to be addressed as soon as possible. First. Sudden tests of the quality of drugs should be allowed. Today, I think it's the only way to control it. After all, there is 10 days to be warned about the legislation in force. This kind of test makes no sense, because in the meantime you can output and hide any amount of counterfeiting. The other one. Today, a clear legal norm is needed that a company exposed to counterfeit trade should be immediately deprived of a license, whether it is a large wholesaler or a small pharmacy kiosk. Dear colleagues, someone says these steps seem rather unpopular. Yes, it's unpopular, but it's vital, because we're dealing with ruthless criminals who, for profit, are willing to kill without protecting people in the direct sense of the word. And they do so when a person is as vulnerable and as never before in need of help. Today we are drafting a bill aimed at hard and decisive protection against counterfeiters. And I invite all factions to cooperate on this bill. Our goal is to make Ukraine a state where there will be no false drugs at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u7	Please, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u8	Dear compatriots, on June 27, a tragic event took place in a village of the citylike Vradivci of the Mikolai district, which unfortunately resulted in the so - called improvement of life from the guarantor and the Party of the Regions. Because it is quite obvious that it is the efforts of the criminal-oligaric family in the country that began the period of the restoration of savage criminal feudalism, where the military extremism and impregnables flourish. The courts and prosecutors have been transformed into obedient servants of the master of Medjugorje. Thus, the response of the population of the Vradiv region of the Mikolai region is adequate and fair. In fact, it was on the day of the corrupting power of the Constitution that the so - called militants, and in fact the perverse in the heathens, tried once again to avoid just responsibility for the crime committed. It is justly emphasized by the illegally imprisoned leader of the opposition forces, Julius Timoshenko, that this authority is the authority of the hard-core, the mahouts and the captors who deliberately rape people and Ukraine. In the country every day, conscious journalistic evidence of the involvement of so - called law enforcement officials in drug trafficking, robbery, racketeering, torture, and beastly crime that took place in Vrádiivka is evidence of this. These so - called order guards did not simply rape the girl, and she was brutally and sadistically mutilated. The district council, headed by a representative from the Party of Regions, Mr. Djatlov, the Vradiv District Council, was not responding promptly to this crime, where the majority is the Party of Regions, the governor who heads the district headquarters of the Party of Regions. In fact, as in previous cases of crimes involving Makar, Popova, and many others, particularly the robbery of Karnadsky’s enterprise in Pervomaysk. It should be noted, though, that humans will no longer tolerate such things. They themselves will restore constitutional justice. And an example of this and a testimony is the position of the community of the Vradiov district. Then, the opposition forces in the country's parliament, in particular the faction Fatherland, Strike, Freedom, demand that immediately not be removed, but rather be removed from the post of Chief of the General Parsenyuk District Administration, who, by the way, recently claimed on the district council, "The Watchers never take over. Wherein there are those who watch, there is no blame." The other one. Retire the head of the Mikolai District State Administration, Kruglov, who was latent in his inaction, contributed to a sharp burst of crime in Mikolai. Because in the area, everyone knows the names of the viewers who feel like the owners of the area. Third. Retire Minister of Internal Affairs Zacharychenk for ineffective internal affairs organization and, as a result, the IMF's inability to stop the increase in crime in the state. And the last. To hear in the Supreme Council a report by the Attorney General of Ukraine on the control of a criminal case regarding a crime committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u10	Repressing the local community by law enforcement agencies. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u11	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National MP of Sphenov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to pass the word to Lviccani Yulia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u13	Let's do it. People's MP Ljovczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! The highest priority of our foreign policy was and remains Euro integration. This trend of internal transformations in Ukraine. The European choice of Ukraine is dictated by the very fact that it belongs to the community of European peoples. The year 2013 has become key to the development of relations between Ukraine and the European Union in the context of the prospects for the signing of the Association Agreement, including a deeper and inclusive area of free trade between Ukraine and the European Union. The signing of the treaty, I don't think, is the ultimate goal of our Euro-Integration efforts with you. This is, first of all, our opportunity to join the European processes. We consider Ukraine's political association and economic integration with the European Union first of all as the possibility of our direct influence and participation in the European debate on the future of Europe and as a prerequisite for the implementation of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policy priorities. We're going to worry enough about the "younger brother" complexes, whether it's the East or the West, we're going to be working together to create a new Europe, one that will really reveal Ukraine: its history, its potential, its historic mission. Not in books and applications, but in life to implement the ideas of a great Europe, this anecdotes is not about us. You and I must do our utmost to see Ukraine, not as a passive subject of these processes, but as a country that will play an active role in European space. This approach is entirely in our national interest, and our vision of effective European politics will be as follows: First. The implementation of European integration policies should take account of the dynamic processes of the political and economic development of the European Union. Europe is now undergoing a transformation, under the influence of the economic crisis and the European Union is changing rapidly. This is about the ability of European elites to agree on the strategic orientations of the future development of the EU, overcoming the crisis, as well as preserving the EU population's confidence in the political forces that support the main ideas of the European Union. And we have to play an important role in this, we have to participate in the discussion. The European Union is forced to respond to these challenges, and Ukraine is eager to participate in this process, and we would like to have the right to vote so that our opinion can be taken into account in shaping the European agenda for these changes. Because any processes that are taking place in the EU are either affected by Ukraine's internal and external policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u16	In my brief speech, I can’t report and can’t convince anyone of anything. We live in a world where nothing is more than an act and a personal example than advertising and posterity. Think about how many years we've lost on chat and talk shows. Thirteenth year is a year of chance that we have to implement. In our hall behind beautiful slogans, the primitive desires of a political career are often concealed. But to be a modern, prosperous, just country is really a dream, a desire for everyone. To create such conditions, to adopt appropriate laws, to demonstrate the level of culture and political responsibility, our duty to the country, history and our fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u17	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Moskal's passing on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I only returned from Vradyevka a few hours ago, where people are still standing in the militia and demanding justice. And in fact, to understand what happened there, except for this terrible tragedy involving law enforcement officials who were supposed to protect the common people. During the three days of one of Drijak’s rapists, neither the police nor the prosecutor’s office detained him; he was under the custody of law enforcement authorities. And just under the pressure of the community, only under the pressure of the people were they forced to arrest him yesterday, just to arrest him, not even the charges against him. If people hadn't gone out, if the citizens of Vrádiivka hadn't demonstrated the need to protect their human dignity, we wouldn't have. Because, unfortunately, Mikolayevščina, one of our areas, has turned into Ukrainian Sicily, where the criminal pogroms, where the killings have become common practice, and the Mikolai authorities, led by Kruglev, are more like organized crime groups. And what we saw in Vradiyevka is a reaction to your improvement of Yanukovich, his team and the Party of Regions that you run all over Ukraine. This is the result that Ukraine has now turned into a powder drum that could explode at any moment. And this policy that you're running all over Ukraine, it can at any time lead to general rebellion all over Ukraine. We must all understand together, if we are not alone in this issue of Vradivitsa, criminals will remain at large and impunity will produce new and new crimes. This is not the first time. Literally two weeks ago, armed fighters shot peaceful peasants in neighboring Pervomaysk. Just recently, we knew the story of the Macar girl who was being bullied, and someone has to be responsible. And first of all, it's going to be the head of the Mikolai district administration of Kruglov, who is actually in charge of this group that organized the entire criminal system in the area, when both the militia and the bandits grew into one unified structure and act against their own people, they act against the villagers. I registered a decree yesterday, an appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President to immediately release Kruglov from office. We have to work together to get rapist killers to sit in jail, we have to work together to get Kruglov to be removed from this position, because while he's there, he's going to cover up those criminals who committed crimes. And we have to be in it alone, regardless of parties and factions, because it's the fate of ordinary people, because it's about Ukraine being a European state or becoming a European state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u20	will be an independent state or become a complete Sicily. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u21	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Irina Heratschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! To each of us, our mandate was given by millions of voters. Is each of you ready today for this mandate to be taken away by the President and his administration? I want to address the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Mr. Rybak from our faction, from millions of Ukrainian voters. Mr. Ribak, you have appealed to the courts: an appeal, a cassation, and you should have approached the President of Ukraine right away. Because the disgrace that the courts today seem to have received was written in the Bank’s. And that's where the decision was made to take the mandates of two of our colleagues. I mean, Mr. Rybak, I'm afraid you're violating the Constitution of Ukraine today. Because article 81 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which the President and the entire party of power mentions for exactly a year. Once a year, June 28 is only five. Article 81, five cases where an MP can be deprived of the right to obtain his mandate. And these cases don't fall either in the case of Dombrovski or in the case of Balogya. So this is a direct violation of the Constitution, which, unfortunately, is being done today by our esteemed speaker. We want to make clear why this is happening today. But because most people don't have 226 votes. And that, honourable independent deputies, is primarily a signal for you. Vote as necessary for this majority, you have to vote for the bills, you have to vote for all the lobby laws, you have to vote as needed by Yanukovic, Azarov, or tomorrow another court of some district office will take away from you the mandates that have been given to you by millions of Ukrainians. And we'll all be like sheep at the slaughter to put up with it. Next in line will be you, the distinguished members of the Party of Regions. Because the President of Ukraine is well aware of the dissatisfaction in your ranks. And the next decision will be to beat and hold all of you dear fellows for their sakes, because you must be humble. And, you know, now the Party of Regions is nodding their heads that I'm telling the truth. So here we are with you today -- we have a parliament to unite around to protect the Constitution of Ukraine, which today is being violated by the President as its guarantor. Balloga and Dombrovski are our colleagues and they have to be in this room to carry out their duties. If we're talking about a change in the voter's will, let's let the court leave the mandates of those traitors and carcasses that violated the voter's will when they took millions and changed their political preferences and that's what the electorate under the Supreme Council demands. There's such a corner not in our faction, our Taras Kutov is an honest man, but a carcase that betrayed voters in Opuchov is sitting right here, and they're hiding their eyes in the front row right now. Shame on you! You have to leave Parliament, and Baloga and Dombrowski have to sit here because they've been given a mandate of millions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u23	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Topalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u24	Please give the floor to Deputy Baiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u25	Let's give you a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u26	Respectable People's Deputies and Voters! [[B in m in s a l in]] Sevastopols have vast wealth: 80,000 hectares of the most valuable land. This land has often become our common strength, our father’s brotherly grave, a land rich in blood and then its defenders and builders. Don't fuck with that wealth, don't let it blow up, keep it for your offspring, it's our common business. But at present we have suffered a great deal of damage to our community over the past 8 years by order of the land, namely, that there has been a de facto exclusion of the city from the coastal zone, a cross placed on the possibility of developing the city as a tourist and recreational centre, and the possibility of developing the city as a port is severely limited. The chaotic invasion of the city's green zone disrupts the environmental balance, the introduction of capital-building facilities, new housing, the commercial centres of a dense residential area creates permanent conflicts with the population, and leads to an exacerbation of the political environment. The massive transfer to private property of land, especially at the coastline to the detriment of the city's interests, creates social tensions and hampers the planned development of the city in the future. A gentleman from 2006 to 2010, who is present in the front lines of the UDA party, was particularly damaging to the city, and he has unloaded and sold thousands of hectares of the most valuable land without knowing it. Not only did the situation not improve, but even his followers exacerbated it. This is because the city has long been run by timemakers who are totally indifferent to the city's future. Full disregard of the Earth's Code, the Master Plan, detailed planning has led us to have a complete waste of land. But despite the fact that much is no longer repeated and cannot be rectified, there are urgent measures that need to be taken to remedy the situation: strict compliance with the Earth Code, the Master Plan, the Detailed Planning Plan by all officials; full transparency of decision-making on any land area; renewal of the Planning Board, architectural board, public hearings; and preliminary discussion of city-friendly projects in the media. Third. A fierce fight against corruption. The imposition of substantial fines for violations of land-use regulations. Exclusion by the city of land not used by appointment or not at all by the lessor or owner. Let's move on. Establish effective public control over land use and enact laws that significantly enhance the rights of the community to land management. The Communist faction therefore initiates the adoption of the law on the status of the city of Sevastopol in order to leave descendants.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u27	National deputy Jeremeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u28	Vladimir Vasilovich, please pass the word to Peter Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u29	Peter Porcelain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u30	A Highly Dignified Society! Dear Ukrainian community! Recently, you and I celebrated Constitution Day and journalists counted the number of articles of the Constitution that do not work. And should we celebrate a Day of Constitution that doesn't work and does not work in a state that claims to be a high-ranking state of law? This morning we see a concrete example of an active article of the Constitution, which contains a comprehensive list of reasons for depriving a member of his mandate, being brutally violated by a non-Ukrainian Ukrainian court and retransmitted by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please find me in the list of Supreme Council powers the right to withdraw MPs' cards! Please find me in the list of credentials of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council to send home the employment books of the deputies! And does he understand for today both the majority and the opposition that the Pandora’s box is opening up! When each of the 225 Marjorie deputies will be deprived of their mandate tomorrow after the court's ruling and Parliamentarians will be destroyed! What Euro-integration aspirations are you talking about today when you call for a number of European laws to be voted on today, and because of the announcement by the Head of the Supreme Council, you create additional very serious obstacles to the signing in November of the Association Agreement in Vilnius. Who believe in the sincerity of the Euro-Integration Purposes of those who are putting Ukraine in a deadlock today? Tell me, please, what the hell are you going to do with this illegal court decision, and you're not executing a previous ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court, which is final, and the charges do not go to Balogu and the Dombrovsky People's Deputies of Ukraine? Ukraine’s legislation clearly provides for what to do in this case. The head of the Supreme Council is to refer two mutually exclusive rulings to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court has to refer the matter to the Supreme Court, and only the Supreme Court has to make a final decision which is not subject to appeal. Today, these complaints are brought before the European Court of Human Rights. And we're not acting like a European country again. I am sure that very serious reasons are being created today to block the work of the Supreme Council again. The majority of the non-fractional national MPs representing the majority districts of Ukraine have determined that, until the statement of the Head of the Supreme Council and referred to the Supreme Court is disassociated, we will not participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u31	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u32	in this abuse of the Constitution, Ukrainian legislation and the Ukrainian Parliament. Stop! Or history will stop you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u33	I'm asking for the Freedom Union, People's Deputy Kirilenko. Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u34	Your Honor, the Supreme Council! If you're still the Supreme Council. Because what is happening now is that there are no legitimate authorities in Ukraine that can control the situation in the country. In the south of Ukraine, a real national uprising has already begun. And don't think it's just some kind of disturbance or bullying, it's a real national rebellion. As soon as the first bottle with an incendiary mix flew in, he arrived at the militia raid. I'm talking about Vradiyevka, this village of urban type that you know where it is, you don't know where it is, because it's in the deaf, it's in the deaf Ukrainian plains and very few people have been there, very few who can feel the atmosphere that exists. It's an atmosphere of terror! It's an atmosphere of fear! When five women were raped and killed in the last three years by the militia, when 11 men were imprisoned and forced to plead guilty to these rapes and murders, three of them were hanged, one died at home from torture. So the people simply gathered to prove that they have the right to a decent life, and they have the right to a future. And those who weren't there can't feel themselves, can't feel what a horror it is, where people live, they're just scared, they cry, they cry for help. But they've already recovered and taken control of themselves. And the police raided the basement, and Berkut, who came from Mikolayeva, was afraid to come into the village and stand on the entrance. And the people will never be raped again; the rebellion has already begun. What is now being created here is the operational headquarters that works from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that the district attorney's office and the police seem to have been removed, is not the measures that people are waiting for, because people don't trust any prosecutor and no militiaman as long as you don't change them. People believe only in themselves now, and people will do everything they can to protect their rights, and people directly say, "Today we've done it in our own centre, and tomorrow we'll go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And we no longer believe in the just punishment of criminals. People demand that these militiamen be handed over to them, and they themselves are going to judge them. And what's happening here today is when the police started calling people tonight and threatening people not to go out with protests. They don't understand one thing, you don't scare people anymore, they're already scared so much that this spring is already unfolding and there's no chance of holding on to that power anymore. The same is true in the Golovanov region of Novosilky, where millionaires rob people. The same is true in Petrikowitsa in the Dnipropetrov region, where people are captured by the raiding method under the discovery of special divisions. So, my friends, if you're still an MP, you have to call the Attorney General here with a report and you have to resign all the district leaders, the areas where this impregnable is taking place. And "Freedom" is going to go for it. Because the people have come to realize that self - government is the only thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u36	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires the Attorney-General's report on the events in the Vradivka Mikolai district. And we demand a criminal case not for serious bodily harm but for attempted murder. Because women were killed and killed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. I invite you to the rostrum for the oath of Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich and, according to two factions, the announcement of a recess. Please. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u38	I, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, have sworn conscientiously and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice, with the aim of ensuring the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u39	Thank you. I wish for success. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions: the Vitalia Klitschka faction and the Fatherland faction are calling for a recess to be held for consultations on daytime issues and statements. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Let's get back to work at 11 o'clock, 15 minutes. Faction leaders, please enter the Head's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I know. Who with the initiators' statement? Please, National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u41	Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear voters! Article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine gives five cases where a member of its delegation may be deprived of his authority. Today, the honourable speaker, you have violated the Constitution and article 81 when it is announced, so there is no basis for delegating. It's a scenario of today's power, that's understandable to everyone. And today is the wish of the President's Administration. And the courts of today have only been transformed into the realization of the desires of one person. And the purpose of this is to intimidate the MPs. I want to address the 225 members of the Supreme Council, for today we are primarily defending the key principles of parliamentaryism. Today, the wishes of tens or hundreds of thousands of people who voted in favour of these deputies are being destroyed, and tomorrow, in the same way, will be removed from each one of you. They want to make members of the so-called puppets who will be threatened with any court decision in order to disenfranchise them. So I want to address each of you: not to support these issues, to express my position, and we all have to protect our colleagues today together. It's not a political issue, it's a matter of principle, it's a principled question of parliamentaryism. Will they take it today???deputy, tomorrow they will crush the will of the electorate. I want to address each and every one of you: Are you ready for this? We don't. And that's why we're going to refer to the courts, the courts where the truth is. We will. Not our courts, which are handicrafted today, we will refer to the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we discussed Law 2115a on the Treasures of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've been discussing this with faction leaders. The Supreme Council is a mechanism that is very large and we need to finance and we need to approve the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Go back, go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u43	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u44	Arseny Petrovich, Arseny Petrovich, I understand that there's a lot of television here and it's a normal pear action. But we just agreed that let's take a look at this. The Supreme Council doesn't want it, so without pay, the people's deputies will be left behind. Let's move on. No questions asked. It's under review. Drink a little more, but only with no pay. The draft Law of Ukraine (2836) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the personal data protection system is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 06.06. In 2013 I call. What system will we discuss? I'll bet you a reduced vote. Please vote. No discussion? [[12:51:53]] For 168 Against 65. Hold on to five. There was no vote — 151. Decision taken. I invite the representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Yuri Romanović Miroshnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u45	Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012 The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Improvement of the Personal Data Protection System) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The law provides for the Government to be entrusted within three months of the date of entry into force of the law to ensure the destruction of applications for the registration of personal data databases that have been filed before the law becomes effective, the elimination of the state register of personal data databases with the deletion of the data contained therein. The Head of State believes that these standards do not comply with the Personal Data Protection Act. It defines the state register of personal databases as the only state information system for the collection, collection and processing of information on registered personal databases. Thus, there will be a situation when both the existence of a state registry and its liquidation are foreseen at the legislative level. In order to reconcile these provisions, it is proposed that the proposed proposals be excluded from the law. In addition, it is proposed that the law should be supplemented with the rules governing the transfer to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of human rights of the national register of personal databases and their registration declarations, which are filed before the law becomes effective. After all, the register has been in operation since July 1, 2011, and it has accumulated a significant array of information. This data can be used during the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act in the proposed edition, since the owner of the personal data must report to the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine on the processing of personal data and any change in the information to be reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u46	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u47	In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u48	The question is to the reporter? None. I give the floor to the deputy head of the Human Rights Committee, the national minorities, the inter-national relations of Hanni Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u49	Dear friends! On June 19, at his meeting, the committee reviewed the President’s proposals for this law. The Committee approved the President’s proposals by a majority of votes. Also, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority considers the President's proposals to be correct. The majority of the votes of the committee approved the decision to ask the Supreme Council to support the bill along with the President's proposals and to vote for it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u50	May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] For discussion. Please. From factions? Let's sign up for a faction discussion. Please, Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u51	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u52	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u53	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We believe that the amendments made by the President significantly change the spirit and content of the relevant law. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union does not consider it possible to support the president's amendment and will vote in favour of overcoming the President's veto. By supporting this bill in a form that was unamended by the President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u54	Please, the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u55	Please give the word Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u56	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u57	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today the Party of Regions wanted to provoke. The provocation is to block the Supreme Council of Ukraine and then to hold the opposition accountable for the seemingly non-adopted European laws. We're ten times smarter than you. And that's why we're now demanding you to enact all of the laws on Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Unfortunately, your weak government and your same majority, which supports this government, have managed to pass as many as one and a half laws on European integration. The first is the one currently being considered from the President's veto. And the second bill introduced by the government is about social television and radio. The third law, the enforcement of judicial decisions, has nothing to do with European integration, because you want to write down 45 billion of the government's debt to Ukrainians by judicial decision. We continued your work last night. You have not passed any European law. We voted that European laws should also be considered today. You've introduced one and a half bills. We know that you don't have voices, we know that you wanted us to block Parliament, but we know what we want to make you do. Vote for the European Union, and this will be the first law to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u58	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u59	Paul Rosenko. Please pass the word to Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u60	Please. Valérie Paccan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that Bill 2836 was adopted on the committee by the joint efforts of all factions. Parliamentary hearings were held on this subject, i.e. committee hearings on this subject, all the materials were worked out and the policy on this bill was regulated. But your president is questioning that he is vetoing European laws. I mean, what does that mean? The President and the Party of the Regions do not wish to sign an association with the European Union. We will support this bill and we want to see how it will support its Party of Regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u62	Party of regions, National Deputy Anna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u63	Friends, whatever the child in the glasses is not happy about, it just doesn't cry. And if the child thinks that it requires us to adopt European laws, let him think that we would only vote. We're very interested in working very actively today. And when we called last week to work more than last week to adopt European laws, the opposition children disobeyed. But yesterday they obeyed, we did a lot of work, and today we will work. And if they think they're demanding, let them think it's essential that they press that button that will lead Ukraine to Euro-integration. We want it, we fight for it, and we'll do it together with the opposition kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u64	Everyone made a statement. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Since we have moved on to the draft bill, it is clear that speeches are not foreseen, we simply need to vote on the amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine. That's the first one. And, dear fellows, when their heads have been removed, there is no need to weep on their hair. I can see that today we have not demonstrated corporate solidarity and are trying to hide ourselves from European laws. So what we can and can do is we can explain it. True, these explanations are inconvenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a committee proposal and I'm putting it to a vote. I'm betting on the voting bill of Ukraine number. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1 of the President of Ukraine has been taken into account. Should we put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:02:56]] For 327 Against 34, held – 1, not voted – 42. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party: 176, Fatherland – 72, Vitalia Klicka – 30, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 27, non-fractional – 22. Amendment 2 of the President of Ukraine is also included. I'll bet on the vote on the confirmation of Amendment 2. Please vote. [[13:03:42]] For 332 Counter-0, stand-by-2, no vote-69. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 176, Fatherland - 78, Vitalia Klicka - 29, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 22. I bet on the voting Act of Ukraine (No. 2836) "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving the personal data protection system" with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 06.06. 2013 for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:53]] For 373 Against-0, held-0, not voted-32. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, Parenthood - 77, Vitalia Klicka - 31, Freedom - 33, Company - 27, non-fractional - 23. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration number 1076 and 1076-1) is under consideration. Draft Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine What are some suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Short? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[13:06:14]] For a hundred and Against 90, held - 12, not voted - 110. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee, Alexander Viacheslavovich Kurdinović, and then to Andrew Vitaliyovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! With a view to creating a Social Television and Radio in Ukraine and to fulfilling Ukraine's obligations to the Council of Europe, the bill states: to form a legal person of public law of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine; determine the principles of its activities of the source of funding, the order of establishment and the activities of the governing and supervisory bodies. Change the laws of Ukraine: "On the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting", "On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio". "Television and Broadcasting", "The Order of Public Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities", "The Elections of the President of Ukraine", "The Elections of the People's Deputies of Ukraine." Ukraine’s National Broadcasting Company is proposing to identify social television and social radio. Social television will consist of two channels: socio-political and cultural education. The social radio will also consist of two channels: social and political and cultural education. The main objectives of Ukraine's Social Television system are to identify: objective, full and timely informing society about the most important socio-political and economic events in Ukraine and beyond; to promote the consolidation of Ukrainian society; to promote the development of Ukrainian language and culture, languages and cultures of national minorities; to meet the information, cultural and educational needs of citizens, including through the creation and dissemination of economic, cultural and artistic, educational and entertainment programmes, programmes for children and young people, people with limited physical capacity, national minorities, other social groups; and to strengthen Ukraine's international authority. Social television’s independent activities should be facilitated by the bill’s transparency of funding and public accountability. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act will create the legal basis for the activities of the National Radio Society of Ukraine as an essential element of democratic society, as well as additional conditions for discussing and resolving the most important social and political issues, will contribute to the formation of civil society in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u68	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Please support, this is the first government bill in 20 years of independence, which has been introduced by the Government of Ukraine to carry out the President's mandate and to fulfil Ukraine's obligations to the Council of Europe and to all European societies in general. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Ukrainian National Deputy Andrey Vitaliovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I urge all those who believe that Ukraine deserves quality and honest television to support the bill on public speaking. If you've ever turned on a television and you've had the idea, the lie, the fact that you've been on the air, if you've ever been in opposition and you've suffered from an unfair treatment of you on the air, if you've at least once turned on a television channel because there was a program that you can't show to children and you were ashamed that we have so much dirt on the air, support today's beginning of social talk in Ukraine. I'm introducing a social talk bill to this room for the fourth time. I'm glad that we finally have an alternative bill from the government, I'm going to do a non-standard thing, and I'm going to make a careful compliment, it's a good text. But there are things the government has not included in its bill. What distinguishes government text from what we bring with colleagues Taras Kutov and Igor Miroshnichenko. We have much greater independence for the future social language. First. This is independence in editorial policy. Our bill explicitly states that no external interference with editorial policy of future social television is prohibited. The other one. We anticipate greater independence in human resources decisions. I'll explain, if you ask, how will different political interests be represented in the future of public speaking? This option, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, predicts that there will be only three representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers in the Supervisory Board. Our option is that every faction that is in Parliament will have its own representation. The Kabmin project foresees that public organizations will delegate their people to the drawing board, a very risky mechanism. We think it should be a meaningful choice, a conference of public organizations. Third. Financing. The Cabin proposes to move to a risky practice of subscription. Now only two countries in Europe are working out a subscription plan. How can we force Ukrainians to pay extra for a channel that is still unknown when it appears? So in summary, I'm going to call the room to do one thing -- to start today the process of making public language. Our factions will vote for it. I am turning to the faction of the Party of the Regions, the only faction that has consistently ignored all the laws on public speaking since 2005. Vote for one, for the other or both, but finally do it for the citizens, for the viewers for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u72	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to report to Tomenko Mikol Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! What is the current situation in the State Radio Area? The situation is incontrovertible and uncomfortably related to the fact that, as long as we hold ten - year debates on public speaking, this public or communal television and radio talk may soon remain. A sad message recently came. We had the best radio transmission center in Bravara. It's destroyed, there'll be a cottage town. We're here with our fellow deputies to check who decided to put national security information and multiply it by zero and build a cottage town? So if we don't start creating legislative conditions for social television and radio today, we don't have a national radio at all, and television will. I read recently that Mikola Azarov said it was an objective channel called the First National. So I would like First National not to be the favorite channel of Azarov, but rather the favorite channel of Ukrainian and Ukrainian citizens. Now it's about two bills. Of course, our sympathy is on the side of the MP's bill. But we believe that both of us have some flaws. And in order not to go around again, and we've been going around for, I say, not less than 10 years, we, the Fatherland faction, have decided to vote for both the MP and the government. We believe that if neither of us will be supported today, we will return for another year. So in spite of all the criticisms that are both in the government bill and in the parliamentary bill, my proposal is to vote in favour of the government, vote in favour of the MP if it comes to him if the government doesn't pass. Since we create a working group on the committee at that time, we involve experts, experts, and move to second reading so that not only in theory, not only in commitments to the European community, but in practice in Ukraine, there will be Ukrainian national television and radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u74	Thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. Please join the Freedom People's Deputy Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u76	Please, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u77	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable MPs, honourable Ukrainians, my colleague is the main instigator of public speaking in Ukraine Andry Shevchenko has already said much on two bills. Nevertheless, I will address the Ukrainians first with an understanding of how important it is to consider and adopt this bill in Parliament, at least in the first reading today. First, Ukraine is and has made a commitment to the Council of Europe and we cannot ignore our commitments and finally take a step towards public speaking. Secondly, today is really the First National Channel, on the basis of which we mainly propose to create social language in Ukraine, which has become not the first national channel in Ukraine, but the first anti-national channel in Ukraine, which represents the sole position of authority in which zombie therapy is being conducted today, and on which tax payers today, at the expense of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, they are besieged, the original language. The same is true of Ukraine’s regional television companies, who are to enter the public - speaking system as we see it. Today, from regional television companies, they have become a television company of one party, a party of regions that runs agitation, again, at the expense of taxpayers. The creation of public speaking in Ukraine will provide a level playing field for all political forces and non-objective information, make it impossible to edit them and make them financially independent, not at the expense of taxpayers, not at the expense of subscription, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but at the expense of a minimum of five hundred percent of the government budget. This will be a normal phenomenon, similar to what is in Europe. Please support our bill and make sure that we take a step on the road to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u78	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National MP of Pavlov. To whom does Paul refer? Anna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, three years ago, immediately after the inauguration, the President of Ukraine commissioned the Civil Humanitarian Council to draft a bill on social television. There were several presidents and many governments in Ukraine, there was a lot of talk about social television -- and no authorities ever went to make television public, public, to which everyone would have access without exception to the political forces and citizens of Ukraine. President Janukovic did it. This bill was unforgivable, it was not easy to pass through the Cabinet of Ministers. Very often, the President intervened and demanded speeding up the work on this bill -- and this day came. And for the first time in this box, I agree with my colleagues from the radical wing of our Parliament -- this is really improving, deepening and expanding freedom of speech today. We must support this, we must establish a tradition in Ukraine of independent television, and this will be done by President Yanukovic, and this will be done for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian independent state. I ask Parliament unanimously to support this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u80	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u82	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u83	Dear journalists! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! You know, in Ukraine, there would have been social television for several years if Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich, who was the national deputy of Ukraine, and his entire faction had voted for social television at least once. [[Applause]] All the democratic factions of the Ukrainian Parliament since 2006 have voted in full for the creation of social television. And now we're not just going to vote for social television, and we're going to demand that not just the boards change to Melnikov's,48, where they're going to shoot "UT-1" and they're going to bring in "Communic TV," but we're going to have the same hat of the office, which out of ten stories, nine reports about Viktor Yanukovich, and the tenth one about Azarov. It's not social television, it's called home video, and that's what you see in the president's office. And we're going to vote for creating social television. There should be no aggression. And the greatest aggression is being provoked in this room. When a member of the Human Rights Committee offends millions of people in glasses, it is a violation of the rights of millions of those wearing glasses. And I want to apologize to these people from the Party of Regions, who is allowing himself before the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, who is just as old as having glasses. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you dare insult these people! As far as voting is concerned, it is clear that we will also support the government bill, because we are in favour of creating social television. But we think our colleagues' bill is more constructive than the opposition factions. Because it's really important that we do this. The Supervisory Board was represented by representatives of the public organizations, not the favorites of Yanukovič-Azarov, who have a slightly different view of how television should function. And it's a very important moment. According to President Kuchma, there were actually representatives of the public in Nacrad on television and radio. Now we have the corrupters who were sent there by this Supreme Council with your voices. So it's really important that both in Nacradis and in social television in surveillance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u84	Finish up. Done? The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u85	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I inform you that the Company's faction will vote in favour of this decision. And we are consistent in our policy, because the faction's previous proposals have consistently supported the faction by voting in favour of that decision. But the Company's faction, like the Company as a whole, has no illusions that taking this decision will change the situation in Ukraine's information space. This is not going to happen, because we have to really understand today. Again, I draw the attention of all those present in the Hall, as well as our citizens. The information space of Ukraine: television, radio, print media, Internet - captured by oligarchic capital. And the oligarchic capital from this information space extorts profits from what makes the morons the future generation of our Ukrainian citizens, corrupting and destroying moral values, history, culture and tradition. The society is tired of the fact that the oligarchs have taken over the information space, and the rivers of blood pour out on our minds and memories. Violence, pornography, all kinds of advertising that kills our citizens, against the fact that they receive these pathetic Jews' money for personal enrichment. All of this is accompanied today by the real information space of Ukraine. Therefore, when we talk about public television, we ask ourselves: who will follow the editorial policy? Once again, representatives of the oligarchs, representing their interests through parties, through the so-called social movements of the same drafting board. So the question today is: Who owns the information space and whose interests it protects. It must be recognized that this decision is not going to remove from the dead anything that characterizes Ukraine's information space today. Ukraine has lost its information space, and the interests of transnational corporations advertising their films are represented today?? and products, not the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u86	On the basis of the vote of the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u87	Thank you. The Bill of People’s Deputies of Shevchenk, Kutovo, and Miroshnicka is better. But as we look after European integration, we also decided to support the government bill, but only on the first reading. Why in the first reading. Because this bill does not determine how to obtain a social language license and thus the frequency of the "UT-1" can be subtracted and just privatized. The law is called Social Broadcasting, although it includes both radio and the Internet. Obviously, this needs to be changed because it does not fit the facts. The law allows public officials to be on the supervisory boards of television companies. Clearly, this is not in harmony with European practice. The requirements for members of the Supervisory Board are not clear. The existence of two collegiate organs is unwarranted. And most of all. The company’s funding is not clearly prescribed because there is neither a stable size of subscriber’s salary nor a constant percentage of the government’s budget. And so the company can again become dependent on the government as it is now. So we're going to support the government bill as well as the parliamentary bill, but only on the first reading, so that later these absurd things, which unfortunately remain to be corrected for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Everyone made a statement. So I'm going to put the draft to a vote. I'm asking for your attention. I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 1076) on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine for adoption. Please vote. [[13:25:18]] For 353 Against 0, held – 29, not voted – 28. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 84, Vitalia Klicka - 33, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 28, non-fractional - 23. Ratification is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] You just said it wasn't European law. That's why we moved. We made a deal with you. A draft ratification is under consideration, the draft Law (0020) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Air Communications. How do we view it? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote. [[13:26:59]] For 205 Against 75, held – 11, did not vote – 120. Decision taken. The factions. He is invited to report to the head of the State Aviation Service, Anatoly Antonovich Kolysnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! You will be presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Air Connection, which is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Air Connection. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the agreement that was made on December 22, 2011. The adoption of the draft law will enable the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at international level to implement the process of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Turkish Republic, contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian companies. The implementation of the law does not require funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u90	Have a seat. The account. Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Well, I guess so. The question put to the vote is absolutely clear. Today we are talking about the ability of Ukrainians to travel the world, and this requires interstate agreements. In this case, there is an air connection between Ukraine and the Turkish Republic. This allows us to develop both our aviation business and our citizens' capabilities. I ask you to support the decision of the committee that approved this ratification bill. And just like our colleagues from the Transport Committee and the Supreme Council's scientific and scientific management, they also supported the decision. Dear colleagues, please support the Law on the Ratification of this Agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. We'll vote, of course. Please, Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u93	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Clearly, ratification needs to be supported, and it is clear that we cannot fall out of the process of international agreements. International commitments and international cooperation. It's very important. But what I want to point out is that we're really missing the mass of Euro-integration laws. In fact, we do not have the laws that are essential. And I would like to point out that, for example, our working group, which includes all factions, has agreed on six bills that are ready to support all factions and allow us to move towards Europe. But only one of these bills has been put into the agenda for the day. So a huge request to the vast majority, in shaping the agenda, let us make sure that the declarations do not diverge. Because in the words we're in Europe, we're actually even the laws that the government is promoting, but there's a threat of not voting, we're taking off the agenda that happened yesterday, for example. Let us take a responsible approach to our mutual commitments and move together to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Feldman. People's deputy to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Turkish Republic is a strategic partner of Ukraine in the Black Sea Basin and in the Black Sea Region. That is why we propose to ratify this agreement, because this will contribute: firstly, to the development of cooperation in aviation; secondly, to business relations between our businessmen and, above all, to the expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Since we constantly support our manufacturer and our businessmen, we propose to ratify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u96	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u97	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin, Poltawa, 144 constituency. Well, first of all, I'd like to address you, Mr. Head, and ask you not to really jump in the daytime. Because we have a series of particularly European integration laws that Europe, our partners, and the laws that hundreds of thousands and millions of people are awaiting today in the courts, especially war children, where Azarov owes them almost 1 billion dollars. And because we don't have these issues settled and there's a crime against hundreds of thousands of children at war, we can't figure it out. And the next. Yesterday we were just discussing the issue of giving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a six-million-dollar turnover to repair his offices. And at the same time, today we have an example of the unregulated very serious international formal relations with countries that, not that there are thousands of miles from Ukraine, but that across the sea and with which Ukraine has a permanent, lasting international relationship. You know, we're looking for an outside political office, along with his chief and president of Ukraine, looking for friends in Washington and Moscow. At the same time, our faction would like to point out that we need to find friends and connections, that understanding is needed directly to Ukraine, to Donbassa, to Lviv, to Crimea, to Poltava, to unite the country, and we need to do everything we can to ensure that the country is consolidated. You don't, and that's why you have Vradyevka, Vradyevka in the Mikolai district, you have Vradyevka in Parliament, because we're like a thousand people who are now resisting dictatorship there, in the village, we're here, blocking the rostrum, demanding personal voting from you, resisting the regime here in Parliament. You know, this week, let me finish, raped.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u98	We've got to get to the point. The Fatherskina faction, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u99	Please pass Sobolje on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u100	He's been taking care of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that our faction will support the ratification of the treaty, because this is really the agreement that allows absolutely clear regulation of all relations between our citizens. At the same time, however, we would like to insist that, as Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Emilianov told European representatives that Wednesday would be the day of Europe in the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, we never see another European law that really draws us closer to European standards and living. Unfortunately, we have heard today the illegality of the announcement by the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the disenfranchisement of the powers of the two national deputies. Unfortunately, today I have taken an oath without resignation from the minister of justice, who now has two members of the High Council of Justice, which is a direct violation of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why, by addressing our opponents from the Party of Regions, it is your direct duty to ask, not secondary questions today, but questions directly related to European integration. And that is why the opposition has decided unanimously to support all such bills. Unfortunately, we don't see them in the session room. So that working group, which was created by the opposition, has already drafted a draft of the Procuratorial Act, which, unfortunately, has not been introduced by the majority. We've developed a series of laws that will really bring us closer to European standards of living. That is why we support this bill and propose to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Did everyone say that? I'll bet you a vote. Attention, national deputies! There's a vote coming. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 0020) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on air links for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:37:47]] For 369 Against 0, held - 0, not voted - 34. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 71, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 32, Company - 29, non-fractional - 21. We are looking at the draft Decree No. 2246a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Problems for the Development of Ukrainian Bookkeeping, Distribution and Prospects for Reading Support in Ukraine". How do we view this decision? Anyone who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:38:56]] For-189 Against 73, held – 10, not voted – 127. Decision taken. The factions. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, on May 15, this year, there was a hearing in the Parliamentary Hall on the subject "Problems in the Development of the Ukrainian Bookstore, the Distribution Book and the Prospects for Reading Support in Ukraine." Representatives of both the publishing industry and the experts and librarians spoke, as did the people invited from virtually every corner of our great country. And, of course, they were saddened to note the lack of efforts by all of us, the authorities in the broad sense of the word, if we understand that Parliament is the legislative branch of power in the direction of those who print, write and propose to read books in Ukraine. I know, after some consultations before not all factions are willing to vote in favour of the draft Recommendations, which, by the way, are unanimously approved by the committee. Well, it's ultimately for the political decision of each faction. The opposition supports the proposed project why? Because he clearly stresses the need to solve the five key problems. First, the inability to cancel tax benefits at least for a transitional period for the publishing industry, and these are the purposes of the government of Azarov. The second is the need for library support. Because 95 percent of the books go outside the libraries, they can't do the shopping. The third is the propaganda of the book. And to that end, social tariffs for advertising the Ukrainian book on Ukrainian television. Fourth: The inadmissibility of destroying the Ukrainian bookstore network, including how now that all bookstores and all stores have been handed over, has allowed foreign owners to buy it. Where the book of the Bible will come from, that is the question. Both the fifth and the main: legislative support for all the proposals made by the publishers. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u103	Thank you. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance. Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u105	Irina Farion, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Lviv Region. Dear colleagues, when I observe how we have parliamentary hearings or committee hearings, I also feel like opposition forces, well, like a voice singing in the desert. Of course, appealing to proper authority is actually easier to communicate with telegraph poles or pines in the woods. But these works, which we have before us each on the table, have very good recommendations that apply to, in fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, I would like to focus on two contexts: the lack of budgetary funding for libraries to fill their funds with Ukrainian literature, first and foremost. And in this context, the problem of amending the Ukrainian Tax Code is closely linked to the purpose of extending the tax system of publishing entities. So our faction has drafted a bill to introduce 5 percent of the time to import foreign-speaking products into Ukraine. Of course, this foreign - language product is primarily Russian. The Russian Federation has brought us almost, and that's just illegal data, almost $20 million worth of produce. So our proposal relates to the introduction of a 5-percent rate for the introduction of foreign-speaking products, which means that we're going to fill our budget by 2 million conditional units. And it's this money that we're going to have a goal that we're going to be able to buy in the library Ukrainian production and the Ukrainian-language book, since the last 3-4 years, our libraries have been practically "unhydrated" and they're not doing their primary role and purpose -- providing the reader with a Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u106	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u107	Please pass the word to the deputy in the glasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u108	Please. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u109	Thank you, Santa. I'm really in the glasses, so I get it. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, a book that has always been a cult in Ukraine -- both in the former Ukraine and in the recent Ukraine -- today is simply catastrophic. This was recorded during our hearings in the same room. I'm just going to remind you that even our closest neighbors of Belarus have three books per capita, Poles have five, and we're barely getting anywhere -- there's one with some little tail. Because of this, the situation is disastrous. I'm going to say honestly that even if our recommendations prepared by our committee were much bigger, wider, deeper, I'm sure it wouldn't change the situation anyway. And this is not the fault of the radio and television committee that's doing it. and bookkeeping, this is the fault of today's power, of today's government, which. You can imagine, over the last year. Now, Kurdinovich can probably confirm that there are debts not paid yet in the past year, about a million more. Because of this, clearly, that money, even which is decoratively set aside for bookkeeping, does not come to the committee, it does not come to pass. The disaster situation today and the distribution book. In fact, all the bookstores that used to be in the district centers, today either there are gindelics, or there are goons training and so forth. The same is true of reading. It is clear that there is an onset of electronic information that presses the book. But the cult of the book, I think it'll come back anyway. Because Fatherland is going to vote unanimously for these recommendations, which at least little by little confirm that you and I are still a less cultural nation and a nation that reads. And the last thing I want to say. I found out, in this little bookstand, that's a scary number: 17 deputies in six months at this bookstore our little one bought books.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u111	I've already said that in the Party of Regions, most people tend to have most people who have higher education but don't have secondary education.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u112	Hit Vitalia Calla, National MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u114	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I want to pick up the last line of honorary colleague Yavorowski and, in fact, say that we all want to read more, then we'll be more supportive of the bookkeeper and do it not just by being deputies, but by the name of the heart, which is called. Because Ukraine is indeed losing the status of a country where citizens read books. Our colleague, Yuri Lucenko, once suggested that in the declarations, politicians should indicate not only how much they received or spent, but what books they read each year. That would give our voters a lot of information about who works in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the government and in the Presidential Administration. And it's very important that the decisions of the Supreme Council not only be taken to protect the humanitarian sphere, to protect the bookkeeping, but also implemented. Because all of us as national deputies or not every week get terrible information about how bookstores are closed, where libraries are located, especially in the district centers. I want to say that thanks, for example, to the members of our faction, such as Mary Mathios, God’s health, the bookstore in Ninja has been saved and preserved recently. And this is just one case where we were able to protect the bookstore. And how many bookstores in Kiev were closed in the years before, and no one is responsible. So it is very important that we support this decision, but not just vote for it, but that we, by our own example, show that the book of Ukraine needs to be supported. A recent exhibition of the Ukrainian book, I think. That there were even fewer members of Parliament, unfortunately, than in our kiosk in the Supreme Council. We also have to support the image and publication of the Ukrainian book and read the Ukrainian book and it should be an honor for every politician to support the Ukrainian book. Our faction will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u116	Thank you. People's deputy Shufrich is being repulsed. Please. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The previous talk mentioned the faction of the Party of Regions. You don't care about our education, but there is one interesting fact. During the Presidency of Janukovič and during the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Janukovič's work on Ukrainian publishing was allocated several times more than with Yushchenko in all time. So count, have a conscience, and be responsible for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u118	From the Party of Regions please Miroshnichenko. Then from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the opposition. The point is, there has just been a situation where we are ready to vote in favour of this decision. This right decision and Ukrainian language should be studied, not by restricting the development of national languages, but by supporting the Ukrainian book, by developing Ukrainian language, by voluntarily encouraging people to feel like Ukrainians in the sense of a political nation. But I would very much invite you and, Vladimir Alexanderovich personally, please don't provoke each other, don't accuse each other, because it's strategic interests for our nation. And I call on my colleagues from the Party of Regions, let's adopt this determination as a basis, let's write it tolerantly and correctly, so that it can go for the benefit of the Ukrainian citizens, first of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u120	On the basis of the vote. Communist faction, Levchenko National Deputy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u121	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Company, City-Hero of Kiev. We remember well the worship of the book in Soviet times. In total, by supporting the development of the bookstore and the distribution book, the faction of the Company cannot agree with the following. These recommendations do not address the main issue of improving the quality of the content of the Ukrainian book. In Soviet times, they said, "The Book is the best gift." Now they say, "The book is a precious gift." Instead of making a word - for - word reading cult in the country, these recommendations support business. By supporting the book, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will not support the oligarchs without a book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-03-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two proposals: on the basis and generally accepted, and there is a proposal on the basis. So that I don't lose my resolve, I'm going to put, first of all, on the ground. Let's take it as a base, then let's move on. I'm voting on the draft Decree 2246a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "Problems in the Development of Ukrainian Bookkeeping, Distribution and Prospects for Support of a Book of Reading in Ukraine" for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:52:53]] For 295 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 97. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party - 156, Fatherland - 68, Vitalia Klicka - 27, Freedom - 31, Company - 0, non-fractional - 13. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? And the Party of Regions is voting in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear MPs, I say again, don't shout, but listen to what I say. There are two options: fail the decision and work on the committee. That is why I, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, stop voting on the first reading. Agreed? Ladies and gentlemen, we will no longer be able to consider it. Yes, I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue.
