ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] There were 367 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Vitaly Anatoliyovich and Katsuba, Sergio Volodymyrovich. Let us greet our nouns and wish us success! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the national MPs. The MPs have the opportunity to make proposals, announce statements, messages and so on. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. Got it. The speech is given by Freedom, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko, to tell how he was in pain at football yesterday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u2	Do you want us to talk about it? I'm not going to say what superstitions football players have, and who goes into the locker room in front of an important match. Unfortunately, it happened and we lost. But life goes on and we have many other problems, society. And one of them is the ripening of an ecological catastrophe, another environmental disaster, which, because of the greed of the braves, can be repeated by the second Chernobyl. And I'm going to ask you to pay attention not only to national MPs, but to all Ukrainian citizens. This is a village of the city type of the Kiev area of Ivanków, where the head of the Kyiv district government, Anatoly the Jury, tries to recover the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is going to build a thermal power plant, a TES on biofuels, and simply on a wood from the Chernobyl forest. The crowd of Ivankova has been at war with the village council for more than a month, fighting with the district administration to prevent such construction, but so far the community of Ivankova has not been heard. And today, Ukraine faces the threat of an environmental catastrophe. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the territory that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the construction of new, expansion of active enterprises not directly related to the provision of radiological social protection for the population, as well as conditions with. His life and work in the zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction are prohibited. However, the Ivankovsky Village Council, in view of this, adopted its decision back in 2011 and authorized the development of a detailed plan for the construction of the power plant, as well as the decision of 24 November 2011 to approve the city’s documentation. And this is contrary to the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of the Areas That Were Radioactively Contaminated by the Chernobyl Disaster, because the thermal power plant is not an enterprise that provides radiological protection for the population. I want to say that despite all the reports and despite the high suspicion that this will be a truly environmental disaster and radioactive substances will be distributed throughout the Kyiv region, the Ivankovsky Village Council continues to press hard for the construction of TES. I understand that in this way, perhaps the head of the Kyiv government, Anatoly the Jury, is trying to smoke not only the Ukrainians from the Kyiv region, but perhaps President Yanukovich, who is in the Inter-Igir region, in the immediate vicinity of Ivankovsky TES. But we want to calm him down: we don't have to smoke Yanukovich out of Mijgory in this way, because we're otherwise going to smoke him up until 2015, and we have to keep the Ukrainian territory clean for future generations. Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u3	Party of regions, National Deputy Nichiporenko. Please, National Deputy Oleg of the Kings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Vasilevich! As a Ukrainian national deputy, I have been approached by activists of the “Will” public organization, who have provided convincing evidence that the project “Techcomp” is being implemented in the territory of our State with the support and direct participation of the United States Embassy, which is preparing for the start of the civil war in Ukraine. The Techcomp project is aimed at training specialists on information and discrediting state institutions of modern media, potential revolutionaries to organize protests and overthrow the state regime. The project is under the patronage and patronage of the United States Ambassador to Ukraine, Geoffrey Payetta. When I spoke to the Will activists, I found that some of them, under the terms of IT, were able to attend the events that took place in Techcompe. To their surprise, the use of social networks and Internet technologies for a focused impact on public opinion, the strengthening of protest capacity with a view to organizing action in Ukraine, and the radicalization of the struggle for power were the characteristics of modern media. As examples, American instructors have provided examples of the use of social networks for the organization and management of street actions in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya. Techcompa graduates are now actively conducting their seminars on Ukrainian territory. A total of five events were held, trained by some 300 people who are working throughout Ukraine today. The last “Techcomp” conference was held from 14 to 15 November in Kiev directly on the territory of the United States Embassy. Can you tell me where else in the world a non-governmental organization will work and conduct its activities directly within the United States Embassy? This is a disrespect for the State of Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine. I turn to the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities on the question of whether the representatives of the United States Embassy who organize and provide for the holding of diplomatic conferences are in violation of the United States Embassy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u5	Let me finish. Speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u6	UN declaration of 21 December 1965 on the inadmissibility of interference in the internal affairs of the State, on the protection of their independence and sovereignty, in particular articles 1, 2 and 5. I request that I consider my request officially and conduct an investigation into the above data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u7	National MP Martinjak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u8	Sergei Martinjak, 20 constituency. Please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u9	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I'm looking at a draft schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm looking at these butterflies, and I have the impression, as well as the non-fractional MPs, that we have voters other than those issues that are reflected in the schedule of meetings. People, such as the district I represent, are particularly concerned about moneylessness, unemployment, and fear, fear, and hopelessness. The fear of getting sick is that when a person gets sick, we get answers to the MPs' petitions, "Everything will be done well, within the limits of the budget." We all know what budgetary assignments. Let's say I have a Chernobyl district. The most people today are talking about cancers, cataracts -- that's probably what the Chernobyl disaster is all about -- and the need to replace joints. And when I got an answer to the MP's statement about the replacement of the joint -- about the fact that the person was put in line in area 797 -- I started to study that question. It turns out that we have 9,000 operational interventions a year, when we have to do at least 70,000. What does it take? The Ministry of Health says it takes 161 million for the next year, 176 million for the 15th year and 186 million for the 16th year. I'm asking you, let's give the government the task of predicting these costs in the State Budget as a target. Because we're all going to shake it off with you, and this is going to turn into a talk about European choice, and it turns out that we're going to be going to Europe with you, your esteemed colleagues, on the Mercedes, at best on the Toyotas, and people on wheelchairs, because the poor have to pay twice. The operation is not performed on the knee or on the chicken’s joint. First the crutches, then the wheelchair, and then we pay twice. I ask you to consider this statement as a parliamentary request. But, Vladimir Vasilovich, it's not what we do with the MP's questions. The MP's questions go, they're completely formal. And the Supreme Council would have to listen to one of the ministers once and place him in a position to see how the MPs should be treated. Too bad, we're going down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u11	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u12	Dear friends! Unhappy times have come for Ukraine. I'm not talking about football, I'm not talking about integration. I mean freedom of speech. Over the past few months, we have added to the disturbing symptoms that have taken place in recent months new unpleasant things that I have to say. In addition to the traditional financial and media hildings that have practically divided the entire television area of Ukraine, a further monopolization of printed media, radio and Internet resources has been added. The so - called group of Kurchenka, who is also called Januković’s family, is now every day. No day goes by not to buy up any Internet resources. And this, my friends, is a danger when all media and more Internet resources are in the hands of either one person or one political group. And as a result of this monopolization, the mass of press release. Because the standards of editorial policy don't match the ones they worked for. It's the release of journalists at Forbes, it's the release of journalists at Correspondents. Come to the web site today, the correspondent is one of the most popular in Ukraine, and the blocks have already been removed. Because many bloggers write what happens in the country and don't have to read it there. I'm absolutely convinced and we're on the committee here to discuss that further monopolization is dangerous. It does not characterize the principles of democracy, and it may lead to a situation where we have all the television, radio, newspapers, the Internet speaking in one voice. Look how much we've got a political gin. We have paid off material on television, on radio, in newspapers. Open the papers today. It doesn't say, "Advertisement rights." And we understand that these sheets are paid off. Specific politicians who talk about how life improves. I was surprised, by the way, that I read in a newspaper yesterday that Communists demand the immediate resignation of Azarov. Well, that's good news. And I think we'll support as opposition, let's ask a question today. And in order to match the material in the paper, which is placed for money, we're going to vote by buchn, and we're going to resign. For this to be true, what money does is what we do. And the last unpleasant symptom is that, you know, our colleagues in the Party of Regions are afraid that all the time stupid, heavy objects are falling on their heads. My colleagues here wanted to buy helmets. I don't think that's very nice. That's why we, the Fatherland faction, take the initiative to exchange seats with the Party of Regions. We're not afraid of heavy, stupid objects. We'll sit under the press and give them a chance to work properly. Because if we're going to close the wall or the glass from the deputies, then we have to end up with democracy in Ukraine. So I hope that freedom of speech will not end in Ukraine. We'll support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u13	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Alexeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u14	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! Ukraine’s company has always insisted that the people, not individual rulers and oligarchs, must solve the most pressing problems of the country’s life. And the constitutional instrument for this is the All-Ukrainian referendum. This comes directly from the 5th article of the Constitution, which makes it clear that the only source of authority is the people. Article 69 determines that national will is carried out through elections, referendums, and (attention!) other forms of direct democracy. The choice of a vector of external economic integration, of our belief, and is a matter that must be resolved only through the direct will of the people. That is why the Company initiated a U.S. referendum to ask people who, when, on what principles, and in what alliances Ukraine should join. I would like to remind you that, with the active support of our citizens in September-June 2013, there were 19 congregations of citizens in various areas of Ukraine, where decisions were made to form an initiative group to collect signatures from the referendum announcement. Sadly, Kyiv’s district administrative court, following instructions from above, made a judgment that was notoriously wrong. And the CEC, in carrying out an illegal court decision, refused to register an initiative group to collect signatures from the announcement of the All-U.S. referendum. Outspoken engagement, from a legal point of view, failed to hinder fair demands and people’s desire to hold a referendum, to stop the interclan of oligarchic bickering and political speculation around the so-called Euro-integration, and to stop finally the oppression of Russian hysteria and Euro-euracleism. That's why I'm stressing here. Taking into account the brutal violation of the Constitution, Ukrainian law and international law, the Company, based on 69 articles of the Constitution, and constitutional norms, the rules of direct action, decided to engage in other forms of direct democracy. And it was decided that an initiative group was created by Ukrainian citizens, having all the legitimate grounds, was beginning to gather signatures. Today, more than 3.5 million signatures have been collected to support the referendum. In particular, 370,000 646, 390 thousand 013, 276 thousand 641 and 321 thousand 820 signatures were collected in the Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zaporzik, and Lugansk regions respectively. Even in Western areas, more than 150,000 signatures were given to support the Communist initiative. This scientific evidence shows that the people today understand their destiny and the fate of future generations should be determined personally, not left to the ransom of the oligartic authorities. Today, a press conference by the leader of Peter Simonenck's party will be held at the Press Center of the Ukrainian Company. And after further legal arguments and in accordance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u16	with 69 articles of the Constitution, signatures, signed letters will be sent to the CBC and to the address of the President of Ukraine. The people have said their word to the All-Ukrainian referendum to be, and what the President will say is whether or not he will hear the opinion of the people soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u17	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, voters, on November 15, this year at the Hersonian Compatriot of Ukraine, signs and posters appeared in several Hersonian renegades that insult the IPU, threatening the settlement of content. I consider it my duty to state this: "For more than 20 years, our party has been in opposition. Our leaders have a clear and clear position for the people. Ukraine's company has a rich history, a constant tradition, a huge work experience. The point of our fight against the anti-national regime is the openness and activity of our actions around the corner, in secret, with the face of the Communists of Hersonian and Ukraine not going to act. Planned action against the CPI won't make us turn our backs on the chosen path. Open threats to the leader of Hersonian, the uncompromising, unbreakable Catherine Samuel will bring us together even more. If the Company's activities cause the hatred and concern of individual citizens and those who are in power and those who march with swastika, then we're on the right track and we're only revamping our struggle for human rights. Despite all of this, we have concluded a collection of signatures for the referendum, which infuriates those who drag us into the European Union. I'm sure it's up to the people to determine the external economic course of our country's development. The situation in Herson was not easy. We actively opposed the corruption that flourished in the land led by the representative of the Coastal Party. By replacing the decision of the land theft to the brother of the Coastal Baby, land was leased within the city instead of 5 years for 10 years, a fine business space for daughter Inni on the street of Prekopska 21. Unless it's blasphemy that V.O. builds its own mansion through a well - founded person in a stadium in the village of Zelenyvka. A party of regions, the president declared a war on corruption. What did you warm up to a corrupt woman? Vladimir Vasilovich, the Hersonians say that you too are an umbrella for Mrs. Instead of abandoning corruption schemes, Madame W.O. Send letters to the Security Service, the police, the prosecutor's office saying that Mikhailenko, Samylik, Taranowski, Tkachenko, Kucenko are threatening her life and asking for her protection. It's a disgrace to those members of the Party of Regions! I demand that the facts be responded to by the State’s law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u19	Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Schwaik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u20	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Colleagues, dear Ukrainian citizens, the Constitution stipulates that everyone has the right to work. A party of regions is actively denying this right to work. In the past two years, Chuguyov’s air repair plant has ordered orders from the Ministry of Defense and has already paid 15 million dollars in debt. For several months, my parliamentary inquiries and appeals to the Ministry of Defense will receive an adequate response. We put the payment in the treasury, but it accounts for 15 million dollars. The conclusion is very simple: A party of regions denies the right to work and to receive an adequate reward. By this time, the budget with the Chuguivian Air Force and over 300 workers, who have spent over a year thinking about this figure, have almost a year working for a week, have received no wages for jobs that have already been done. The other one. The Constitution provides that everyone has the right to housing, which includes housing, including housing. In Luhansk, through the Youth Housing Fund, people paid their rent. But the Party of Regions is actively denying counting these funds out of 15.5 million dollars, and at this time only 3.5. People of the eighth year are running out of housing. The Ministry reports that it changed the direction of budget use, but the treasury did not happen to count again. Society, I have given only two examples that can be continued, and each of us knows dozens and hundreds of such examples. Remember how many in this session room we had requests and requests for treasury budget execution, for the activities of the State Treasury of Ukraine, for the activities of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Let's ask a question if Parliament can't get answers from this government: when will the budget recalculation be properly ensured? What citizens can do, which is simply put in nothing by the Party of Regions, their Prime Minister of the Party of Regions and the President of the Party of Regions. These examples can be cited endlessly. This is also a list of local budgets, including the enumeration of financial assistance to families with children, which is a list of already notorious war children. So today, Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to ask very much so that we can formulate a clear question to the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, in the course of the "hours of questions to the Government," which we have a real debt from the Treasury, which we have a real deficit situation and when social programs will be implemented, and when will all the budget systems work normally? Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u21	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u22	Roman Shugalo, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Chairman, citizens of Ukraine! Since 1998, there has been a programme in Ukraine to support individual housing in the village of Own House. During this time, loans of 992 million dollars were granted to 3 percent of the 87,000 rural families each year. As a result, more than one million of the most expensive dwellings have been put into operation and 69,000 farm gardens have been gassed. Support for the government budget funding programme has a major incentive effect on investing in rural development. Yes, the government’s credit card bill is directed at about 1.5 - 2 dollars at the expense of local budgets, other sources of funding, and population funds. In doing so, the scope of the core funds exceeds 2, 3 times the amount of loans granted. The return on loans is 98 percent of the approved schedules. However, the credit cost of rural developers is only 17 percent. But despite the high popularity among the rural population of the Own Home Program, it's not developing properly. Because the general budget of the State budget for 2010-2012 did not provide for any amount of credit in the country, although the State Target Program for the Development of the Ukrainian Village by 2015, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of Ukraine of 19 September 2007, provided for funding from the General Fund of the State Budget for 117 million dollars per year. Of these, 70 million in total and 47 million in special funds. In the current year, the budget provides only 47 million dollars of the special fund, i.e. only from the repayment of loans to developers, leading to the gradual collapse of the program. In order to resolve this issue, my colleagues at the Faction of Ukraine Gordijenkom, Kaletnik and Gončarov registered a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preparation of proposals for changes to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013" for the extension of loans to rural developers, which are proposed to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with additional expenditure for the provision of credits under the budget programme "State-owned credit to individual rural developers for the construction and acquisition of housing" in the amount of 68.8 million dollars at the expense of the general Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. We insist on one thing: that the government implements its previously adopted target programme "The development of the Ukrainian village by 2015." We demand that rural builders be helped to build housing, build engineering networks, develop support agriculture, that's what these credits are for. The villagers hope that their problem will be resolved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government this year. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine for speeding up the consideration of this decision in the Supreme Council and for the decision of the Government in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u23	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Babic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u24	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u25	The potter's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u26	Dear voters! The Ukrainian Company's faction once again claims that Ukraine is on the verge of a critical decline in industrial production, which is almost 5.6 percent, and in chemical, 19.7, machinery, 16.2, metallurgy, 5.2, food, 12.8. Playing Euro-Integration leads to hundreds of companies stopping their jobs, which were budgetaryly-increasing in their territories. This is first of all: North Donetsky and Cherkassky "Azoti", Gorlovski concert "Styrol", the oil processing plant, went to a reduction in the states of Stahanovski and the Krukov Wagon. In Luhansk, Canadian investors continue to close mines. The penalty in the state is empty, the budget is deliberately being set aside, and the hidden unemployment is rising. All of this results in months of retention of wages, social benefits. Millions of people on the verge of begging, every tenth beyond poverty. The amount of capital investment is dropping. However, neither the authorities nor the so - called opposition intend to deal with these problems, to enact the necessary laws. And that's because they're all concerned about just one problem: Euro-integration at all costs. Koksa-Kwasnevsky's mission and the release of another oligarch is far more important to them than the concern for Ukrainian citizens, the resolution of housing problems, medical, pension and social issues. But look at the leaders of the opposition: they are capable of everything so that Julia does not interfere with their own choices. One of them rushed to the rostrum earlier to declare his choice to go to the presidents, and the other one every week, like Grandpa Stukkar, changes his T-shirts, just in case, gets spooked, well, the third one sleeps and sees that the authorities will help him out on the second round. That's what's important to them. But there's also some grim research into the technology that's been bought. But the people see it all. The citizens of Ukraine supported the Company’s idea of holding a referendum. Today, more than three million signatures for the holding of a referendum have been collected to make the works. The people of Ukraine have determined who to be with. And last of all, I would like to say, to draw attention to the fact that the shadow sector of our economy is almost 350 billion dollars. Of these, it's estimated by the fiscal authorities that 170 billion dollars is the payout in envelopes. The cost of such payments is that Derbudget loses millions and billions of unpaid taxes each year, without a pension fund and local budgets. There are ways of legalizing wages in envelopes, but no authorities have been able to solve this problem. The Company's faction has developed a board of 145 bills aimed at overcoming the crisis. We have defended and defended the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u27	We'll vote, of course. Time's up for performances. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to first-reading issues. We did not fully comply with the arrangements we had yesterday among the factions for the adoption of the Jubilee decrees. So I would like to give you my word: two minutes to the head of the committee, the national deputy of Yavorowski. I'm asking you to come over here. And after that, we will consider the final decisions that have not been considered. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u28	Dear national MPs, our constituents! Of course, we need to find a way out of that kid that happened around the town of Sevastopol yesterday. This city is special, it has a special, natural status. There's a lot of political twists around it. That's why I want to report that on the committee we told the author of this decision clearly then: you can't write "from the moment of the founding," I emphasize. Because there's a tradition in Sevastopol and we don't vote for it today, it's again, I say, get in the clonch. What is the offer? If we leave Sevastopol 230 years of age, the question arises immediately: Where did Vladimir get baptized, who then baptized us with you and the future State and then the Kiev Russia? There was nothing in the city, was there? So it's absolute nonsense. That's why I'm proposing to get out of the situation in this way: remove the word "founding" from the ruling, and just do the 230th anniversary of Sevastopol, once. And, Vladimir Vasilovich, I beg you, we have the right to make a protocol commission for the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to address the Institute of History and, finally, we have the right to know the age of this city, let historians give us a comprehensive, full, deep answer that it was Hersones and so on, but it is their business. And then we're going to put that truth in place. Because of that, I propose, by removing the word " founding," to vote, otherwise we'll block the rest. But let's, if we make a deal, let's make an honest deal on this shore. We vote for all the decisions, as we agreed yesterday, and then we get out of this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u29	You've heard the committee manager's opinion that we should vote in favour of all the decisions that are registered, as it is. I ask one minute from the factions to speak. Please, Rosenka, a minute. And I'll give it to everyone in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u30	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, we fully support this way of dealing with matters. We have many important issues in our day - to - day schedule today. So, as we did yesterday without discussion, in the middle of the faction, we've discussed everything, and we've got our point of view. And so, without discussion, let's vote. And we're going to move on to the issues that the Ukrainian people are actually counting on us to do, and we're going to have the Ukrainian people waiting for us. Let's move on at a fast pace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u31	Thank you for your support. The strike faction supported Yavorowski's performance. Please, from the Freedom faction, you have a minute. Igor Schweika.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u32	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, let's stop turning the activity of the Ukrainian Parliament into a category of "agreed not to agree". There is a Supreme Council regulation, there is a law. For the draft decree marking the 230th anniversary of the establishment of Sevastopol, the Supreme Council voted twice yesterday. 107. The article says, "The bill rejected by the Council cannot be tabled in any other session or session." They've closed the subject. Sevastopol, first of all, not 230 years. This time. And secondly, Vladimir Vasilovich, as Head of the Supreme Council, I appeal to you as Head: please ensure compliance with the laws today. Because the rule of law, and the observance of the laws, and respect for them, begins with this building, from the Supreme Council, not with the culinary arrangements, not with the phrase "hit" to the address "Paternity," not with the vote. It begins with compliance with laws, respect for them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u33	Thank you. "Freedom" doesn't support the arrangements that were made yesterday. Please, Fatherland. National MP Jemiliev, one minute. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The city in the Crimea Peninsula, 230 years of which is proposed to be determined by a decree, is actually established much earlier, in 520 B.C. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it was founded by the Greek-Darians called Hersones Tavricius, which means "half-island" Tavrian. In time, the Greek-Doraeans accepted Islam and joined the Crimean Tatar people. By the time the city was captured in 1773, the Russian Empire had the name Jakarta. After the conquest of Crimea, Russia turned this town into a powerful military base called Sevastopol. But that doesn't mean we have to ignore this city's almost 2,000-year history. The history of this city is also inextricably related to the history of the Ukrainian people. It's just W.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u36	It was in Hersones, not in Sevastopol, that the baptism of Kyiv Prince Vladimir the Great took place. Russian and then Soviet authorities destroyed historical toponyms by naming thousands of cities, towns, villages, and villages. Sadly, though, the return to the authentic name of the Crimea population has not begun until now. The draft of this decree is fully invested in the Russian-Radians concept of Crimea history, but it contradicts historical justice and elementary logic, demonstrating contempt for the cultural heritage of other ethnicists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u37	Thank you. "Paternity" is defined. Please, the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u38	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like you to make a historic conclusion today. "Freedom" stands for the destruction of Ukrainian lands. Because "Freedom" opposes the celebration of the glorious date of the city of Sevastopol. I don't know any worse than you do. We repeat that Sevastopol was based on Hersones. But Sevastopol became Sevastopol 230 years ago! So get out of this. I understand the political consequences of your decisions. Of course, you treat history in your own way. I'll remind voters, remind those who are interested in history, they're digging deep, deep and deep. They even came to what was a rather serious consideration of the version that Jesus Christ was born in John-Francisco. That's your story. I propose to vote for Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Let's give the floor to the People's Deputy Kolesnicko, the faction of the Party of the Regions. And we'll make decisions. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u40	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today we see a shabbash of nationalism and a demonstration of hatred for the famous hero city of Sevastopol. This allows us to conclude that this hatred for the history of our Ukrainian State. If we follow the logic of these bastards, it means that Crimea is not an integral part of Ukraine. So we'll make a deal. The town of Sevastopol was founded by the decree of Ekaterina 230 years ago. Fascist grace is not needed by the inhabitants of Sevastopol. The hero city of Sevastopol lives, lives and lives. However, if Parliament does not vote in favour of this glorious date, it means that Parliament has renounced the Ukrainian status of the city of Sevastopol. And we will say thank you to the separatists who are ruining our lands and destroying our State's independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the question, and I'll give Freedom a minute to reply. Let's take a look at the question, and I'll give you a minute to reply. I'll bet on the vote (please calm down), I'll give you a minute to replicate the Freedom faction after the vote. I'll bet you a vote on the draft regulation. I ask the National Deputies to prepare everyone for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (No. 2230a) marking the 230th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Sevastopol as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:47:09]] For 201 Against 37, held – 3, not voted – 119. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 153, Fatherland - 14, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 6. I want to point out that the Vitalia Klitschka faction all raised questions yesterday, today raised questions that you would vote in full. But you didn't vote, the deal's broken, the more decisions we're going to consider today. Let's move on. Can I have a minute, please? We're going to go to the National MP, Kaidi, and we're going to go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, honourable deputies, honourable voters, we don't tell the Stalinists who's dumping Ukrainian lands. Because in the days of the Communist Stalinist regime, Ukraine fell 1.6 times. Ten million Ukrainians were killed by Communist terror during the Holocaust in 1932-1933! You are on your knees before all the Ukrainian people and for the destruction of thousands of churches, for the destruction and murder of thousands of priests, you, on your knees before those people you drove into World War II, before those people who died in Afghanistan, before those unborn Ukrainians who could cherish and rebuild Ukraine! On your knees, Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u43	Thank you. I'm asking the faction leaders to comment on the following orders. Please! Now we're going to decide, I'm going to give each faction a minute, and now we're going to do everything. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u44	Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Here's an example of how they know Ukrainian history. You have to stand before Stalin on your knees because in 1939 he made Western Ukraine Ukrainian because in 1940 Bukovina became Ukrainian because in 1944 and 1945 the Carpathians became Ukrainian. [[B in m in s a l in]] Study the material part. Read the history books, not Dontsov, Shuhevich, Bandera, and so on and so forth. Instead of studying the biographies of murderers and executioners, study the real story. And kneel before those who have left this land, including 1954 the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This is who brought Ukraine together, and this is who has made Ukraine within the limits of modern times. It's not what you're talking about. It's not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u45	I ask the factions to express themselves on the orders of the following, because the agreement has been broken. Whatever you decide, I'll do it. Please. Don't yell, I can hear you. Well, we agreed that in a minute all the factions would come out. Well, what are you yelling at? Who will act? Please, National Deputy Kowalczuk, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u46	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Faction of Vitaly Klicka. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I am addressing you personally and I would like to warn you that you have just misled both our colleagues and Ukrainian citizens in our position on draft regulations. Yesterday, we made it clear that we are proposing to put these issues to the attention without discussion. But we didn't say a word about what decisions, what decisions we're going to support and what we're not. So our position is constant. We propose that all the decisions be put to the vote. As for Sevastopol's question, the proposal was made by the Fatherland faction, and it was not supported by you or your colleagues in the Party of Regions, so we didn't take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u47	I'm going to Vitali Kowalczuk, and I want to address you. The deputy just spoke from your faction and he asked me to put in all the decisions without discussion, and we'll support it. And yesterday. Now I'm going to write down all the names of how many people came up to me after you've finished and said, "Let's vote for Sevastopol." So I lived my life, and I deceived no one. And don't blame me for your lines. Don't. I can't think of anything. I can't think of anything. I beg you, there were two factions. Now the Fatherland, who's speaking? Please, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I think that the House would unite the decision if we now passed the Order to mark the liquidation of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its captors. [[Applause]] As for the order of the day, Mr. Head, there is a request for you. I look at us fighting so hard for the Jubilee dates, we would have fought so hard for the Budget Act, we would have fought so hard for European integration, we would have fought so hard for minimum wages. So, Mr. Head, let's follow these orders. In principle, these are ceremonial decisions, most of which will be supported. But I would like the entire Ukrainian Parliament to look pretty funny when it comes to making decisions that don't do anything for the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u49	That's what I'm calling you for. Yeah. I support such an offer. One minute, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u50	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. My colleagues, the Honourable Head, I once again wanted to focus on the implementation of the legal rules, namely the Ukrainian Act on Rules. On Wednesday’s plenary day, the decrees for commemorating commemorative dates were passed from the plenary day of Tuesday. This is the norm of our Rules. We also approved the violation by you, Vladimir Vasilovich, the third time we evaluated the Order on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of Sevastopol. What do we need to do next? Open the law and work on it. Do we have an order of the day? The next is 2053, 2063, and so on. We will work by law and do everything that Parliament has done. And to those who promote Stalinism here right now, I'd like to remind you that I threw you out of Mausoleum with your predecessors, the goddamn Stalinists, the Ukrainian people, out of Ukrainian politics, and out of Ukrainian history. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u51	Yes, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Hanna Mikolayevna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u52	Everyone in this room and outside this hall understands that throwing such a split-edged slogan into Sevastopol, in Crimea, about the fact that the Supreme Council did not respect this city is playing the role of separatists who have repeatedly subjected Ukraine to the idea of unifying Crimea. Such things can be done either by short-sighted policies, or by paying provocations. That's why I want to remind the paid provokers of the words of the Levite historian Jaroslav Gretzak, whom you all read and know. So Jaroslav Gretzak said, "Lenin created it, Stalin brought it together, and Janukovic will bring it to Europe." [[B in m in s a l in]] You want it or you don't want it, but it is. That's why. And to you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, our honor, this is a good lesson in how to deal with the fascists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u53	Please, it's a non-fractional moment, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, Ukrainian MPs! I can only imagine the wave of the Sabbath rising in Sevastopol after the Supreme Council failed to mark the 230th anniversary of the city of Sevastopol. If you say that Crimea is Ukrainian, the city of Sevastopol is Ukrainian, why do we not celebrate the year of its establishment? This is done only by those who want to divide Ukraine. This is done by people who want today on all Moscow channels to show that Sevastopol is a city of Russian glory. This is what the people to whom the Christmas tree is visible are doing. Who doesn't vote for the anniversary of Sevastopol? I'm going to the Strike faction, where Ukrainian patriots are sitting, I'm going to the Fatherland faction, where I also hope Ukrainian patriots are sitting, I'm going to the non-fractional, I'm going to the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u55	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u56	Let's go back, vote, celebrate at the national level the anniversary of the founding of the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol. Do not split the country in a flat place. There's nothing hanging in my head.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u57	So what's the offer? Puts the vote on? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, just give us the lines and nothing else. Let's get back to work. Let's get back to work. No more lines, no one needs her. A draft Decree (No.2053) is under consideration to mark the 450th anniversary of the city of Radivilov in the Plain region. I'm betting on a vote to take this decision as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:00:12]] For-143 Arseny Petrovich, your voice is short. "For" – 143 – 2, held – 10, not a vote – 233. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 4, Parentage Party 61, Vitalia Klicka Strike 29, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 16. I'm voting on the Bill of Order (2963) on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Metropolitan Father Vasil Lipkovsky -- for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:01:12]] For-152. Against - 1, held - 9, did not vote - 224. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's me, Igoru Schweiko. I'll bet. Let's move on. I'm betting on the vote of Decree No. 2325 (a) on the marking of the 675th anniversary of the Ostrozhki tribe, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:05]] For-153 Against 0, holding back, 9, not voting, 225. The decision is not taken. The factions. There is a vote on the Bill of Order (3384) on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Bloody Horn from German-Fashistic invaders – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:53]] For 218. Against – 1, holding – 2, not voting – 147. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (3111) on the 100th anniversary of Eugene Brezniak's birth, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:37]] For 240 Against 39, held – 0, not voted – 103. Decision taken. The factions. What do you want Region Party - 139, Fatherland - 36, Vitalia Klicka - 20, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 16. I'm voting on the draft Order (3430) to mark the 70th anniversary of the heroic victory of the Red Army in the Corsun-Shevchenkov operation, for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:33]] For 202 Against 0, hold on to 4, not a vote of 158. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm voting on the draft Decree (No. 3435) to mark the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Red Army of Cherkas from German-Fashistic invaders, for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:05:25]] For 205 Against 0, hold on to 3, not a vote of 154. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 141, Parenthood – 23, Vitalia Klitka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 28, non-fractional – 13. I'm betting on a draft decree to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the birth of the Ostap Supremes for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Number 3370. [[11:06:14]] For 312 Ostap Vishnu united the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "To" is 312. Against 0. Hold on to 0. We didn't vote -- 76. Decision taken. The factions. Everyone voted. What's Irina Heratchenko yelling? What were you yelling at? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u58	I think so. There's a few lines I'd like to say. First, turn to the non-fractional deputy who urged from the rostrum to support the Sevastopol vote. It is necessary, Your Honor, to begin with, because you did not vote in favour of this decree. And with regard to the vote of Communists for the U.S.A., we hope that this may be the first time on your path at all on the knees of forgiveness to the Ukrainian people for having your Stalin our Ukrainian hero in the concentration camp, as well as the other letters of the Ukrainian people celebrated. Shame on the Communist Party -- followers of Stalin, cat of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u59	That's enough lines! We've got our lines full! It's under review. Dear National Deputies! All of it! Calm down. Igor Grigorovich forms the order of the day. No more of these decisions will we make for the consideration of the Supreme Council. Do we have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's make a deal. The draft Law on Amendments is under consideration. 2538 Draft Amendment Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are they yelling at? I'll take a look. I'm sorry, we're moving on. There are still a few regulations. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? I'm betting on a draft Order (3372) to mark the 175th anniversary of Paul Chubinsky's birth, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:09:03]] For 279 Against 0, held - 0, unvoted - 111. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 131, Fatherland – 68, Vitalia Klicka – 29, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Let's move on. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Decree No.3383 on the observance of the 750th anniversary of Prince Daniel I Romanović -- for adoption as a basis and as a whole. To withdraw the vote. Please, please, let's hear it. This is the decree of the People's Deputies of Ivyenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! I would like to do the same as we are now demonstrating the unification of the hall around the historical figures of Ukraine, so that we can now vote on the Order marking the 750th anniversary of Danil Galicki, the first Ukrainian king to unite Ukraine and create the largest state of Europe at that time. I emphasize that the authors of the decree are representatives of all factions. And for today there is, in 2014, we will have the opportunity to celebrate the anniversary of the first Ukrainian king. Requesting everyone to support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u61	I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (No.3383) to mark the 750th anniversary of Prince Daniel I Romanovich. May I have the people's deputies vote, please? [[11:11:35]] For-149 Against – 0, held – 12, not – 224. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote on draft Law No.2538. I'm sorry. I'm betting on a draft Decree (2366a) marking the 100th anniversary of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine by Vladimir Grigorovich Sergeyev – for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:12:45.]] For-300 Against - 0, held – 0, not voted – 89. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. Everybody votes. I'll bet you a vote on the draft regulation. You're already knocking me right off my feet with your screams. Not what's in there. In all my years of independence, I have not heard everyone act like this in Parliament. It's never been like this. Calm down, don't scream. Raise your hand, I'll give you both for the line and for the performances. This should not be the case with the higher legislature. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (2517a) marking the 170th anniversary of Elijah Ripin's birth as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:14:17]] For 302 Against - 0, held – 0, not voted – 83. Decision taken. The factions. All factions voted. Have we considered all the decisions? All of them. Let's move on. The draft Law (No.2538) on the amendment of the Law on Electricity (to improve the status of consumers and electricity suppliers) is under consideration. How do you propose to consider this question? Is it full? I give the floor to the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Security, Alexander Borisovich Mirno. What suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Aah! Short cut? I'm betting on a vote that would like to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. People please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u62	Yeah. And the author of the bill suggests that we look at it in a simplified way. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:16:01]] For 131 Against 2, held – 11, not voted – 245. The decision is not taken. The factions. What are you, 160 members of the opposition, unable to get 150 votes? What the hell is going on? Please, Alexander Borisovich, report. You have up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I am very grateful to the Party of Regions and Communists for the opportunity to communicate with you for 10 minutes and to express my position on the bill, regarding all the other events that have taken place today in our Council. First of all, I propose not to leave the room, but to take and listen, to make a decision on this bill, because this bill is primarily about enterprises that are mainly located in the territory that unfortunately supported the communists and the Party of the Regions. I hope that your right vote will either strengthen or disappoint those voters who continue to support you. So I'm going to be the official part first, and then, given the time I have, I'm going to be the unofficial part. You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity (to improve the status of consumers and electricity suppliers) (registration number 2538) (from 14.03. 2013), introduced by me and the Ukrainian national deputy Miroshnichenko Igor Mihajlovich. The bill is designed to improve the relationship between consumers and electricity suppliers from an economic point of view and to implement effective mechanisms for their national regulation. The draft law proposes to amend article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, according to which energy suppliers are responsible to electricity consumers only if the power supply is interrupted by a power supply of twice the cost of non-emission of electricity if the amount of electricity not released exceeds 10 per cent of the contractual value. It is also proposed to amend article 26 of the law, which exempts the consumer from paying the two - time cost of the difference in actual consumption and contractual value in the case of electricity consumption that does not exceed the contractual value of more than 10 percent. Similarly, it is suggested that part of the seventh article 26 of the law on exceeding the contractual value of power be regulated by less than 10 percent. In addition, the project proposes to supplement this law with a new part that will allow electricity consumers to account for overpayments of their consumption as prepayments for the next calculation period. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 17 April 2013 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Now, in short, in your own words. What do we propose? Taking into account that we are currently underpending businesses that consume at least one kilowatt more than the amount of electricity claimed, we suggest that we allow businesses up to 10 percent to shift the limits they claim to pay the normal price. Because you can see for yourself when it comes to tens of thousands of kilowatts, to guess precisely at the kilowatt, it's practically impossible. Next question. Very often there is a dispute over the money that was made in advance. Very often, oblenergo requires that the money to be paid for the next period be paid in full according to the application. And they don't take into account the money that's left in the accounts. So we're trying to sort out all of these situations that are there. And in our view, there is absolutely no policy here, and we still have to take a step towards meeting entrepreneurs and businesses that work, that consume electricity, that give jobs that pay taxes and that support the regions in which they are located. So I'm not going to take away your precious time, I hope you understand these bills. And of course, the game of determination, well, it's like playing football: sometimes it's disappointing, sometimes it's winning. But let's stop, let's listen to each other calmly. If you have any comments, let us express these comments and receive the answers. And yet, take real steps so that entrepreneurs can breathe a little bit better. Because today those tariffs are actually bigger than they are in Europe. At least we have to go somewhere to meet those factories that still breathe. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please sign in. I beg you, Igor Miroshnichenko, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u65	Dear brother, Alexander Borisovich! The question of a specific post is that you and I are the authors of this bill, and it is extremely sad that there is very little in the Chamber of Deputies right now. How relevant do you think this bill is today, especially for representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, who today pay disproportionate taxes, taxes, the owners of the skynergo, the owners of Kievenergo and so on and so forth? Is there any point in considering this bill in Parliament today, or is it perhaps not interesting, because the members of the Party of Regions feel better about themselves? I understand they're representatives of big capital and big business, small, medium-sized, they're not interested. Still, I would like to hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u66	Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich. Well, I think in your question you gave a practical answer. The thing is, we have such a hard time working small and medium-sized businesses, that in the amount of payments that he pays, roughly speaking, it's a tax on excess of electricity that he's making up a very big part. And it's clear that entrepreneurs thank all those who vote in favour of this law, because this law is absolutely necessary, because businesses, small businesses, barbershops, pharmacies, any small business, it pays tariffs that are already paid for the bracelet. And it's clear that this tax is actually the biggest tax. Even wages may be less than the cost of electricity. And if it was necessary today, well, today is our opposition day. Unfortunately, today's politics is more powerful than logic, common sense and concern for economic conditions or other businesses. That's why I'm hoping the hall will support it. If we do, we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u67	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u68	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear Mr. Alexander, you speak well of the troubles of small and medium-sized businesses, it is true. But you may also know the plight of Ukrainian citizens, who live especially in rural areas. Today’s village is largely electrified, where instruments such as incubators are used. And in the case of a few hours off, monthly work goes down, some heats up in the spring, some use electric pumps to pump water, and so on. And today, absolutely without any warning, without any information messages, they're shut down for 6-8 hours a day. And the power companies don't have any responsibility. So it seems to me that the operation of such a law should also be extended to citizens directly suffering from such a hammish attitude toward their needs. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for asking. The thing is, elephants eat tea spoons, and we see the problems that there are, and you're right to focus on them. But we need to take steps to resolve these issues gradually. We offer to support the first reading of this day, and we can make appropriate adjustments and consider them. But it seems to me that these questions with natural persons should be described by another law and this would be more correct. Because if NCRE supported us in this matter, in the matter of individuals, you know, cross-subsidization, we have to make no mistake, we have to write correctly. Because in order for any then, even the same shell company or electric company, because 0916 is going to work, it can't sue the decision of one or the other if it's a lawsuit in a court of law. So you have to write it correctly, it's much more complicated than that bill we're proposing right now. Thank you. I support your point of view, but we have to describe it in the second law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u70	Alexander Borisovich, thank you, sit down. There's no report. So I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. Please sign up. I'm asking you, the Company of Ukraine, the People's Deputy of Kudra.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u72	People's deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! The Communist faction will support this bill, on the basis that the bill proposes to establish the responsibility of energy suppliers to electricity consumers for the lack of electricity. Responsibility arises if, during this period, the consumer does not provide more than 10 percent of the electricity from the contract size. In such a case, the supplier is obliged to compensate for the double cost of electricity that will not be provided. But at the same time, we have some warnings about this bill. This acceptance of the text that is now, of this bill, could have unforeseeable consequences. If the supplier has not given 25 kilowatts a year of electricity during the period of lack of electricity, he has no responsibility to the citizens of Ukraine. In doing so, this rule should be taken into account, 25 kilowatts a person uses for up to three days. So for three days, the lack of electricity will not be punished in any way. There will be no punishment for those suppliers who violate the rights of these citizens. So the faction decided to support the bill in its first reading. And we've made our amendments to the second reading. But today I call on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u74	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Alexander Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u75	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! There's a lot of talk about the bill. Consumers must be protected, but there is a question. Question one. For a hospital, a 10-second shutdown of electricity will have tragic consequences for the emergency room. Therefore, it is not clear which accounts the authors double the fee and 10 percent the shortage or oversupply. So I think the bill needs to be redrafted and re-examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u76	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, it raises a very important question, because the monopoly of energy-efficient companies, it's probably the most powerful one we have in Ukraine and they're pressing, this monopoly is literally pressing on all spheres of production. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure the pressure of this monopoly doesn't allow co-owners' associations to be formed. Which could be a serious element in the reform of housing and utilities. We know that their monopoly in the calculation of electricity works absolutely on the side of the company's interests, but not on the side when it comes to co-owners' associations. But, dear fellows, I think that this law needs substantial work, because setting these extra fines twice the limit is more than 10 percent, I think it's quite controversial and problematic. I'm sure that in Ukraine today, when there's electricity regeneration, when we don't have electricity deficits, there's no way to impose any fines for overexpenditures of electricity. I think it's going to work in some way for these power supply companies, and so I think the 10 percent limit rate, it's too low, and the fines for exceeding this electricity consumption, they're too high. I'd like you, my dear fellows, to note that we're now changing our enterprise heating systems. And when centralized heat supply structures disappear, most enterprises are burned at the expense of electricity during the winter period, possible limits. So it seems to me that these norms in this legislation, which show serious sanctions for 10 percent over the contractual amount of electricity consumption, are problematic enough. And in the second reading, we have to cancel. The "Fatherland" faction on the first reading will vote in favour of this bill. But I think it needs to be worked out and reduced by the pressure of monopolies of energy-generating companies on the population and on businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u78	I beg of you, Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u79	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, for the audience and for the MPs in the hall, I want to say that the Party of Regions continues to be rude and brutally violating the Rules. And the buttons have already appeared not only in the back but also in the front. Because next to Jan Tobacco, who pushes a few buttons, we already have Chechetov's handiwork running and waving our hands and pressing a few buttons at the same time. It's a disgrace. And, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I ask that you pay attention to such a brutal violation of the law of the Party of the Regions. Now essentially the bill. Dear society, well, the comments of some of the deputies of some factions, they remind me of, you know, the saying: heard the bell, didn't know where it was. I just want to say what the problem is. Today, legal entrepreneurs who consume electricity, especially during the winter period, feel deceived and vilified and, as far as Kiev is concerned, Kyivenergo. Why? Because they are obliged in advance to order a certain amount of electricity to be consumed before the beginning of the month. That's because during the winter period, you know, the temperature is different. And it's almost impossible to predict the level of electricity consumption. At the same time, by ordering a certain amount of electricity, they are obliged to pay in full for this electricity. Provided they don't use this electricity, they don't get the money back. And so Kiyevenergo or oblenergo, energy-efficient, gets rich two times. If, on the other hand, the entrepreneur suddenly overrun the electricity he ordered and failed to warn the energy supplier in time, he is forced to pay a double tariff, which is another example of our entrepreneurs being robbed. It's a question of medium and small business today. This is a question of people who are trying to survive in today’s uneasy market conditions and who count every penny. And really, the cost of electricity for them is very important. And our law with Alexander Mirne refers to improving the situation of electricity consumers in this respect. Of course, amendments can be made. And come on, fellows, let's bring them in on the second reading. But I ask you very much to support this bill. And I'm sure every MP who supports it will be grateful to hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, who you, the honourable authorities today, are trying to root out. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u80	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u81	Vladimir Vasilovich, I give the word to Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u82	Please, National Deputy Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u83	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, it's a very important bill that we're discussing right now. It's also about protecting our entrepreneurs from, in fact, monopolies that are actually one of the most powerful monopolies in Ukraine, most of them that control a very large area of both business and the private sector. But I would like to raise a question that concerns our citizens, however, because there are still a number of bills in the Supreme Council, including deputies from the Fatherland faction, which deal with the very issues of citizens' relations and the corresponding generating companies of the skynergo. Now we have just a terrible situation, which is that a citizen who's consumed the right electricity and owes me a debt to the skyline, from which this debt is drawn in a simplified order of command. I'll explain what that means. This means that without your knowledge in court, you are actually sentenced to a debt, in the so - called order, to a penalty, and then to the fact that you are actually obliged by the executive service to pay a huge amount of money. And in this situation, so shameful, let's say, the ratio of power between a citizen and a monopoly, it's not to be assumed. In addition, there is now an appropriate foam in place to collect the debt for electricity consumption. We have repeatedly addressed relevant bills to Parliament. Sadly, though, given that we understand that the energy lobby, especially the representatives of the Party of Regions, is huge, these bills do not pass. So I think we need this bill, which we are now considering redrafting and still distributing certain guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights, including the illegal collection of debts, the illegal collection of a simplified foam from them in this law, if it is still in the session room. I am grateful to our colleagues in Freedom who raised this question. This is a very important issue with regard to small businesses with regard to unjustified overpayments for electricity consumption. But we should go wider and we should really raise questions about ordinary citizens and ensure that the citizen does not pay, illegally do not pay off the debt and the foam in a simplified order called order of command. So, colleagues, I suggest and urge everyone to make appropriate amendments to the second reading, which would lead to the removal of the disgraceful norm of the law and the Civil Procedure Code, which would establish a so-called simplified order of borrowing citizens by electricity for the benefit of energy companies. It's very simple. Because if an energy company, for example, shut down a citizen from the light, a citizen is generally tried in courts for years and cannot get the truth. If a citizen owes at least a month his salary for electricity, he is withdrawn without his knowledge and then taken away his personal belongings, took away his personal property, and took away his personal belongings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u84	Thank you. It's a faction. It's post-faction. National Deputy Sergei Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u85	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, surely this bill needs to be supported. We should thank the authors of this bill for raising this question. I'm sure they picked it up. Because they're being approached by their constituents who talk about the saviours that energy companies make up in places. And from these references, I'm sure, and this bill was born. But what we do understand is that today it's not going to be about energy companies -- it's about electricity and it's about selling to entrepreneurs, citizens, it's about gas companies, they're all born with power. Why? And because it's a corrupt component. You all realize that in a loving way today in the electricity or gas market, you have to pick up entrepreneurs, pick up Ukrainian citizens to pay more. Why is this done, and how is it done? This is one component of corruption that the authorities allow energy companies to collect from entrepreneurs, is that they raise appropriate limits, tariffs and thus pay advances in advance. The same is true of citizens. When I'm in the district, each of the villagers is talking about the following: that in the payment, I'm going to have one number to pay, and I'm going to get paid for 50 cubic meters, if that's for gas, more than 70, more than 80, and that's another, plus an advance to collect 70 more, 80 extra or kilowatts of time, or cubic meters of gas. This is again under the arrangement that the authorities are closing their eyes on this. And you know, all over Kiev right now, I'm pretty sure all over Ukraine, people are gathering for information that they don't have 50 bracelets of ashes in the chimney. What is 50 dollars? 50 bracelets means, out of a million housing units in the Kyiv region, to collect 50 million dollars, just on one hand. And he doesn't even climb into that chimney and look at this ash. But give me some help and then give me 50 bucks. I'll give you some help. But it's a corrupt component again. We need to fight against such phenomena when those companies can rip these people off.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u86	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! That topic that the drafters raised in the hall today, each of you is feeling when you meet with the electorate. I just want to put out some accents that you and I understand every day, we discuss, but mostly in the kitchens. Is there a monopoly in energy today? Does the Antimonopoly Committee see this? Yes. But he's re-signing the sale in one hand of all the archetypes. Is there an understanding today of the state regulation of that monopolist who is holding any businessman today? Ask me why they stopped at Zaporozhye's aluminum combination. Why did all the iron and steel factories in Ukraine stop? And because we sell electricity abroad cheaper than we sell to our own manufacturers. You know, we've been looking at several drafts on the committee, how it's possible to influence that monopolist in adjacent markets. We don't have a chance. We seek out now, we address all countries as they do. How, for example, can Oblenergo be deprived of his license, as ordered for violating the standards that they should comply with? And there's no way. And that makes it possible to be unpunished. The question raised by the authors in the bill touches on a very narrow but important point today: it touches the connection to business. You all know, and you've been approached by businessmen: today, to plug a small kiosk into electricity, you pay terrible money, they roll all the guts in your hand to match that limit. And you know what they do? The limit is given in advance, less than you'll use it, realizing that you're going to be fined. It is impossible to increase the limits, to get normal market relations in Ukraine. I don't touch the question of the attitude of any citizen, don't give God, Kiev, for example, or Herson, or Mikolayevenergo. They're shutting you down at any time, but no one, I've never seen them shut down big-time oil companies when they don't pay off the debt for what they got, like Mr. Kurchenko "Naftogaz", a year and a half. And that's why I have an offer. Realizing that I can see that there are no voices in the room, realizing that this is no longer a matter of a committee of profile energy, but still a relationship with a monopolist, I suggest that we re-read this bill to complete our committee so that we can work on these adjacent markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u88	Thank you. The Fatherland faction. People's deputy Kotelak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u89	Lydia Kotelak. I give the word to the representative of Troas to Mr. Jaborowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u90	Please, Mr. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u91	Thank you so much to my colleague and to remember where I came from. I am. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank my colleague, the national MP of the Peace who's had the courage, and the time for this is already supposed to be, and we've held on to this time, but he finally dared to enter into an area that is so, you know, so shaky, so religiously protected by the oligarchs, but the enormous free money is being turned. And judging by the empty regional lines, you can immediately judge that this bill applies to so many of them, and they're involved in this area. We live in a country, I'd say, in a country of absurdity. Well, it's human logic at all. We buy electricity just as much as gas and so much like bread as water. We, if we have money, we need it, we go and we buy as much as we need. I remember one killer painting that. Which I saw a few years ago. I came to Winnitzkin to my native village, it was the end of May-month, the flowering gardens, the fabulous flowering gardens, and almost every house in the country were tightened by the opening of the window and the heat was falling out, because the villagers had to burn all the gas they signed on for. They didn't need that gas anymore, but if they didn't, they wouldn't have counted some of their benefits. Well, that's ridiculous! We're talking about energy shortages and stuff, and we're selling abroad maybe the cheapest electricity in the world, and we're paying more for it at home. If we're looking for a way out today and somehow get rid of this energy dependency on Russia, first of all, there's no doubt that they should be bringing the system here. Here my colleagues have already talked about what is absolutely sleeping, snoring, hearing all over the planet, our Antimonopoly Committee, which is handing over in the same hands. What a danger it is that Firthash and Ahmethov today can do whatever they want with the country. Take a few days just to turn off this electricity and make something up and everything, and the country will start pouring. Because of this, you can usually argue with this 10 percent and that kind of thing, but we have to start with something. And I think if this isn't voted today, Vladimir Vasilovich, you should definitely, maybe even, you can see for yourself, there's no one to vote, they're all running. But this bill must be accepted; it is a solution. Let him not be completely full and all that sort of thing, but we have to vote for it. And the Fatherland, who will return to the Hall, will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u92	Freedom Union, National MP Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u94	Please give me your word. Oleg Gelaway, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u95	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, we have a strange situation in the electricity market. While our electricity is one of the most expensive in the world, when we sell it cheaply abroad, why do we try to remove seven skins from our entrepreneurs? This is especially true of small and medium - size business, which chronically wants to wash off circulation costs. Look what's going on. They say pay for electricity in advance – no questions asked. But don't just pay up front, the power companies say you're still playing roulette with us. Guess how much electricity you'll spend next month? And if you didn't guess, this is where the interesting thing starts: if you didn't pay, then all you took above is double the price, if you overpaid it's your problem that you didn't guess we're taking all the money away. How much can we abuse our entrepreneurs? How many can be squeezed? And look at the illustration, our respectable oligarchs of the predominant parties, as soon as they started to consider this bill, got friendly and went to drink coffee with a beautiful snack, with pies, with sandwiches. So, Mr. Head, I'm going to ask you very much before you start voting for this law, call all of our respectable oligarchs down from the cafeteria to get up here and get into small and medium-sized business problems. We wait because we can't bully people like that. We, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, have been speaking and we will be in favour of small and medium-sized business. And we very much ask you to come back to them today and show your principled position. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u96	I ask that the deputies enter the session room because there will be a vote. I'm asking for a closing statement in the reporter's speech. Let's get to the vote, invite the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of a few moments and thank you for hearing. First, the committee supported the bill and recommended it as a basis. Secondly, NCRE supported this bill because it is also plagued by consumer complaints about energy suppliers. And this bill allows for at least a little bit of expansion. Next, the comments and suggestions I heard. Today, we have a fine for exceeding the limit starting with the first kilowatt that goes beyond the limit. We're offering people a 10 percent chance of being wrong, because, as colleagues say, well, they hit 30-degree ice cream, and people started eating more. What should they be commanded to do? For eating more? Well, think about it! This is an absolute theater of absurdity! Then there is electricity supply and power cuts in the hospital, a high - risk facility. First, you know, they always go in the first category, there's at least two independent sources of supply. Secondly, this bill does not in any way allow the power supply to be cut off, and the responsibility for the disruption of supply is described by other laws. All of this is and is foretold. Therefore, for the health of our patients, we are living with you, but this law does not in any way endanger the health of our patients. Next question. What today is money that's paid for electricity and electricity is not selected for this money, is months of court hearing, because the oblenergo says I don't have it, I've paid the next generation, man says, so I paid and didn't get it and so on, and so on. We clearly describe that in this situation, there is a previous payment for the next period. We also solve this little knot. So I'm asking you very much, dear fellows, I repeat, this applies to more industrial areas, industrial regions and large cities, where everyone wants to be and look worthy. Please, let's take a step towards a small, medium and large business and show whether we're statesmen or whether we're just politicians who, in pursuit of fame and popularity, simply forget about those people who work today, pay taxes, create jobs and keep us, too. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Please. I've already asked you to invite the deputies again. Please prepare the deputies for the vote. Prepared?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2538) amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act to improve the status of consumers and electricity suppliers – to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:57:06]] For-149 Against 0, holding back, 18, not voting 212. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 7, Parenthood Party 59, Vitalia Klicka Impact 15, Freedom 33, Company 24, non-factional 11. The law is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, what are the other proposals? Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone. What's your offer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I had an offer: to return the bill to the first reading and send it back to the Antimonopoly Committee. Why? So that we can look at it from the point of view of consumer rights and antitrust policy, and in this part we've worked, because the first reading is more private. That's what I'm talking about. Positions for the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting you to the vote. I'm asking for your attention! To amend Law No. 2538 for the preparation of the committee for the re-reading of the first reading. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:58:58]] For 165 Against 0, hold on to 11, not a vote of 200. The decision is not taken the second time. The factions. Region Party 15, Parentage Party 56, Vitalia Klicka Impact 24, Freedom 33, Company 24, non-fractional 13. The law is rejected. I'll call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u102	Invite the deputies to work in the hall. Let's get to work. A draft Act (No. 2679) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the organization of checks is under consideration. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Full? On a full program? I can't hear you. Short cut. Well, who wants to work and consider this issue under a reduced procedure, please vote. We vote for ourselves, personally. [[12:33:52]] For-65 It's not good at all. For 65, against 2, held – 7, did not vote – 280. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes. Please, Gregory Yudkomovich Smythuch. You've got up to 10 minutes until 10:00. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, they watched as they voted. If we voted in favour of the laws that are necessary for the economy of Ukraine, I think the situation in our country would have improved significantly. To my profound belief that we must all support the repeated appeal of the President of Ukraine to reduce as much as possible the pressure on our businesses. Both in his meetings and in his speeches, the President made this clear and clear. Those of you, and most of you, either have a relationship or associate with businesses, know that we have too many working conditions today. In large numbers, there are not many. But, in large numbers, we have a lot of bodies that check. Well, think about it. In Ukraine 70 authorities have the right to carry out checks on businesses. 44 of them have the right to pause, that is, write a census and stop these businesses. 44 organizations. The second question. What was going on? Did they take advantage of this right last year? During 2012, businesses were shut down for some reason — 154 times. Let me give you an example. There's a big agrarian producer called Nibulon. You all know. She works all over the country. It exports a lot of grains. Please consider, in 2012, only this organization was tested 533 times. This year is 414 times. I think, and how does a dialogue take place between businesses and government authorities that control or are obliged to control businesses. I'll pay attention to more. The highest rate of economic and industrial development is Germany, as it happens. And I found, I was very surprised, the rule that in Germany, if an enterprise regularly submits a report, if an enterprise pays taxes regularly and on time, this enterprise is not checked for 10 years. And only once every 10 years after an audit, an entity can enter the control body and be interested in how it works. So I'm sure if we don't change our approach in our country, that the enterprise is primary, and the inspection body is secondary, we won't change anything. We must bring peace and confidence to those who are able to organize businesses. Because they care about job creation, production, manufacturing, and sales of products that are so hard to find in the world market today. These people deserve to be protected by our national authorities, not checked. What is happening in action? In fact, public authorities have certainly played an important role in filling the state budget. We're not leaving without it. But I'm sure if we don't change the approach that the enterprise, the citizen first, and the state creates and helps them second, it won't be this, you know, social dialogue, it won't develop in the economy. What I'm proposing is one of the elements, one of the elements I'm proposing. To reduce the number of checks and to give up checks on enterprises in two categories is the industrial sector and the agricultural sector. If these enterprises, any enterprise pays taxes on time, doesn't reduce social and other funds, this enterprise can't be tested for five years. Why check them out? They're doing everything on time. They care about people, they care about markets, they care about increasing the competitiveness of their products, they pay taxes, they increase the well-being of us, including the counting that keeps us with you. And I'm proposing to start with these enterprises because they're in the real sector, and who's in the real sector today, and who's in the real industry today, the agrarian complex is working too hard. And these people need help. Of course, if I know that this point of view is not shared by most deputies. And they're probably entitled to that. But without sharing the point of view, we need to offer alternatives to how we can create conditions so that we are proud, that there are the very best conditions in Ukraine for money not to interfere with Cyprus or other countries, but for money to remain here. And until we're at peace with you, the money will leak, the businesses will be moving to other countries, our best experts will be looking for their destiny outside of Ukraine. And in the end, it's affecting that we continue to destroy the remnants that we have in the industry in the agri-industrial complex. Dear colleagues, I repeat, you may disagree with my point of view. But if we don't immediately change the approach of a dialogue between businesses, between a citizen and a state in the face of its controlling authorities, we won't change or rebuild the country. Then it should be said that we do not change anything and that people should find advice for themselves. By the way, they do that. And that's why we have this trend. We tend to have most of the young people who don't want to create businesses, but they want to go outside of Ukraine and look for their destiny there. Why do our businesses, for example, in Norway, have successful businesses? Why do our businesses find themselves in England, where everything seems to be busy, all niche? Capital, business, built everything, developed everything. At the same time, our businesses find a place there. Because our businesses can work, they can organize, and they can do it. I invite all of you to join in on this important issue, because we have time in the ambition of political action, and in that we have a very difficult country and we need real, concrete, concrete and immediate changes in the context of these problems, we need to understand with you. If we don't understand it, we're going to crash. So I encourage you, my honourable colleagues, to engage in the discussion of this issue, not only with regard to this law and these two norms that I propose to introduce, but more broadly to discuss this issue, thanks to the fact that we have not a simplified procedure for dealing with the issue, a simplified procedure, but a complete procedure. Thank you for your attention. If you have a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Please, Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u105	First of all, I want to thank you. You always have a clear position to protect manufacturers from controlling organs. Our committee has your bill and they're very close to ideologies, and your desire to create normal conditions, unfortunately, for democratic countries, if they heard what we're talking about here now, they wouldn't understand, because they've been working with indirect methods of taxation for a long time. They can work their whole lives without seeing the taxpayer. I personally and our faction support your bill. Unfortunately, though, we understand that there are no producers anymore, and agriculture today is being destroyed definitively, which can lead the country out of trouble. I mean, unfortunately, these laws are being implemented, and we have with you the Law on conducting checks on how they should be organized. No one's doing it. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u106	We have to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u107	Thank you for your support. And I'm glad you're sharing that this is a question and that this payment needs to be considered. And it needs, in my opinion, to look at these issues first. Because no Europe, no alliances of ours, if we don't raise a national producer, if we don't create comfortable conditions for it, no one will keep our best professionals in their homeland, even though they're really patriots of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u108	Party of regions, Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Grigory Yudkomovich, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour recently received such sad figures from the Federation of Employers of Ukraine. Last year, 155 thousand industrial companies of all kinds stopped their jobs by checking and controlling. According to the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, our economy has experienced 30 billion dollars. And it's not by any chance that Ukraine is "for promoting business" in 137 places, and Georgia, which has calmly eliminated all these controlling inspections, has nothing to do with 9th place. Please tell me, is your bill now, or is it, before the second reading, to foresee a mechanism that would not allow everyone and everyone to stop the business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u110	Thank you. That's a very good point, and that's a very good question. In my opinion, really, the figure that's different in terms of 27 to 30 billion dollars is the loss of businesses because they were stopped during 2012, and that's a scary figure. It's a scary number. And you can't, you know, say she speaks for herself. Of course, my bill does not provide for all the measures that the State must now take to make this shameful, in my opinion, the path that between enterprises and between the Tax Service or other authorities is in our state. But my law specifically says, I took a compromise to find, you know, not all businesses of a commercial nature, intermediaries that are, I took the real sector. We have a steady growth in gross domestic product in the agrarian sector, regardless of the crisis that is in our country and outside our country. That's the only thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u111	Thank you, sit down. Please, the committee is the national MP, Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u112	Dear Head, dear colleagues! We discussed in detail and professionally the proposed standards at the Tax and Customs Committee meeting on September 18, this year, and came to the following conclusion. First of all, there are other tools available in the arsenal of control bodies other than planned checks. Like documentary departures, non-departmental checks, actual electronic checks, encountering animals, and so on. Secondly, when we adopted the Tax Code, you and I predicted that only risk payers should be included in the planned checks and should not include conscientious taxpayers (article 77, paragraph 2). The Mindohadas have developed a risk system and methodological recommendations for drawing up plans, test graphs. Risks are being analyzed, and only ventures should be screened on schedule. And the last. The rule of anonymity does not create problems today, and it cannot be a basis for verification, because anonymous references under the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act are not subject to consideration at all. Conclusion. We see that the problem of excessive pressure by the author of the bill is raised correctly. Sadly, though, the bill does not solve problems in full. This bill is not supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, but according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the bill needs further work. At a meeting of the Tax and Customs Committee, the deputies decided to return the bill to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u113	Any questions? Please sign up. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u114	Constantine Guzenko, Dnipropetrovsk district. I would like to take the floor to the People's Deputy Momot Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u115	Please, Alexander Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u116	Alexander Momot, Party of Regions, Dnipropetrovsk 27 district. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I have this question for a committee representative: haven't you offered the author a differentiated system of checks? For example, after another test, a conscientious salary is checked five years later; it has technical errors and a minor breach, and three years later, it is slightly more. Well, for the scale, it was a graduation. And those who work well pay their taxes conscientiously, out of suspicion, rarely check them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Indeed, in their statements the national MPs suggested that, in fact, only these few standards do not fully resolve the issue. So not only did we reject it, but we suggest that we work on it, taking into account perhaps a proposal like yours and a proposal like that previously made by Alexander Kugel to the report of the law, and obviously other national MPs will. That is, for the issue to be solved in a complex way, it involves changes to different standards, not just planned tests. Because besides planning, there are other ways of putting pressure on business.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u118	Freedom Union, Alexander Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u119	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mrs. Catherine, well, I'm surprised to hear that a committee with most representatives of the Party of the Regions is rejecting or sending a bill to be drafted by a member of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Where's the analytical service that they're so proud of, where's the big brains? Why is this process even taking place? We think it's a very strong question. And here we support Mr. Gregory, who needs to be carried out. And if there's a comment, suggestions, there's a second-reading tool for that. And to reject, to send for work is to bury some ideas for ever. So, please, if you please, Mrs. Catherine, what was the motivation for the Committee's deviation and direction for further development? Because from our point of view, that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u120	It's because it's possible to examine and include in detail the brains you're talking about, that we've asked the author of this bill, along with the working group of our committee, to process this bill comprehensively. Because if we accept it in such narrow frame slots, according to our Rules, and you know it, we can no longer introduce a basic standard to the second reading. We can only dance in the rules that are written, so it's not rejected, it's for work, so that this bill can actually solve the problem raised in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u121	Thank you, sit down. People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. Faction Strike, National Deputy Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u122	Please give the floor to the Deputy Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u123	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u124	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The Vitalia Klitka faction gives a step-by-step project on business in Ukraine, allowing business to be simplified in both part of taxation and part of other types of business regulation. Looking at this project, when we saw this project in general from the representative of the Party of the Regions, we were happy that it was such an initiative. In fact, we have problems today with checks, including the Tax Service, and the Customs Service, which are regulated today by the tax code. Will this project solve the problems that exist? We think he can solve something only if we work with you between the first and the second readings. Why? The project predicts that no tests will be carried out if there are additional anonymous statements. Regrettably, not only tax checks but also law enforcement checks are carried out today on the basis of a claim concerning a third enterprise with which there is sometimes no relationship between the undertaking and which is being tested. And we have huge business problems today, when the operatives, the tax police come in, they're checking a company that doesn't really have any bearing on the problems that even through the courts have caused. As long as we are not divided by judicial authority, legislative authority, and enforcement, no changes to the Tax Code will, unfortunately, help. I am moving on to this bill, which deals with verifications. Simplifying, fewer scheduled tests. Many of us here, in the hall, and many of our voters have business relations. And you and I know that the biggest problems we have are in out-of-plan tests, in actual tests. And in the project itself, there's only one thing about out-of-plan checks, which, I hope, for the second reading, is going to be done on our profile committee, and we can make sure that out-of-plan checks don't cause extra pressure on business. In fact, the business situation is complex. And if we can make this project a little bit easier for people, we're going to vote for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u125	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Xenius Leapina's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u126	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, "For Ukraine!" I'm going to say right now, we're definitely going to support this bill. We are aware that he is far from perfect. We understand how much deeper, wider, more systematic it can be. We realize that he is likely to solve far more than all questions and not all economic situations. But even a small step, even a half step, can be useful for Ukraine and its economy. We realize that in today’s judicial system, in today’s law enforcement system, when after one whistle by a superior, a successful business venture with many hired workers can be destroyed without pay. It's only because someone wants to redistribute property and get government hands on someone's property, someone's successful business. Today, all of this is in a violent way in Ukraine, and we understand all of this, but we want to take real steps, not just declare the problem. And I want to remind the special presence of the Party of the Regions and the Communists when this problem arose to the full. I want to remind some speakers that they stopped businesses in 2012 not only by law but by law. Who, then, approved this law in this room? That's right, you fellows, and you've got it. With your own hands, you have created tools that can do anything with your businesses today. We warned you when the Tax Code was approved. We've listed all the tools that are risky and that will create all the possibilities to destroy businesses and, in particular, in the agrarian sector, which is now the most risky thing we can say. These are all the tools you put in the Tax Code. You went to the same Ministry of Revenue and Congregations that didn't want to be subject to the General Law on State Oversight, which, by the way, is now restricting the official will to the parameters under which it is implemented. But the taxpayer wanted to get out of this law, and you helped them with your hands. And I'm surprised at the cynicism of the situation. You're drafting a bill today that takes half-a-little steps. We'll support him, but I'm paying attention. The problem is widespread. We have to get the Tax Control back under the General Law on State Oversight, Control.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u127	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think there's no doubt in this session room that the issue of the high relevance of the issue has been raised in the bill of Honourable Gregory Eudkoymovich Smituch. Two moments. So the first preconceived. The successful work of real economic operators slows down, allowing for a variety of checks. And the second. All kinds of unwarranted information, anonymous statements, and so forth. I'd like to turn off a little bit of my pathetic speech in front of me, which there was a lot of claims in the Tax Code. Similarly in the Tax Code, please see articles 78, 80, 82 clearly written and reasoned when, in which cases, a test may be carried out. It's got to be. It's the law. But it's not being implemented. It's a different matter. These are claims, not before the Tax Code, but before it is implemented in places. Well, look. If a person is employed without proper work relations, without a workbook. Clearly, we need to find out what we are dealing with. It's a tinnitus. When employers are paid in the form of salaries, they are paid without counting. It is vital that we check. It's the only social contribution. When a natural person engages in entrepreneurial activities without a government registration, and especially when we now have cases of massive trade disruptions, the implementation of alcoholic beverages. So, in general, the question is not in the Tax Code, but how it is implemented in places. Here are some other figures from the Federation of Employers of Ukraine that have been reported by the Committee on Social Policy. In Ukraine, on the average, a business entity spends about 500 hours a year filing tax returns. For comparison. In Belarus it's 300, in Russia it's 180. Well, in European countries, it's much less. Today, according to the Federation of Employers, in Ukraine more than 700 different kinds of controlling, inspection organizations have mad rights. Of course, these things need to be regulated. So here's the number. During the past year, businessmen were screened 2 million times. What efficiency. Ninety - one million dollars a year have been credited to the budget. Is that a lot? But it's a pit, because it's 3.5 billion. So the nerves were pulling, the tests were ineffective, and they counted huge sums, which the entrepreneurs then successfully protested in the courts. This bill is certainly of great relevance, it is of great importance to the real sector of the economy. I think it would be nice if the author listened to the recommendations of the profile committees and worked on it in the exact direction in which the speakers spoke to me and who would speak later. We will then receive a comprehensive system bill that will contribute to the development of entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u129	Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u132	Dear Head, honourable deputies! It's actually a bill that needs to be adopted today. But it must be accepted, Vladimir Vasilovich, in a hall where there should be at least 226 deputies. Why do we put such laws in place to destroy them?? so that Ukrainian entrepreneurs today do not get what they are suffering today. It seems to me that this shows a party of regions today their face and attitude towards all Ukrainian entrepreneurs who are looking forward to some help today, and to protect them from this pressure, from this silliness that the tax administration and other power structures are doing today, the controlling authorities that are no longer breathing peacefully to our little and medium-sized, and I think that big business, too, is also a major business, except for our distinguished oligarchs, who are not paying taxes and no checks are going through, neither out-of-planned nor planned. We believe that today bills such as this number of the 2679 bill should be considered tomorrow when the entire Party of Regions is present. And let them show their face. As soon as my previous member of the Party of Regions, Mr. Suhi, said that he was always teaching us, we were pleased to learn from the ancients, from the deputies who had passed. But what they took, Mr. Dry, you have to answer what you're saying, agree, so many tests. And where you've been for 10 years, when you've adopted all these bills here to verify and this is a prank that happens all the time, every day or several times a day, you've been silent. And today you're saying that you have to accept, you have to look at the context, the whole bill. So tell me, please, how are we supposed to do this now, how are you going to be left with a few deputies and not vote in favour of this bill? You should be ashamed of what is being done today in the tax authorities and in the control bodies that have put not only business today but the state on its knees. We have already experienced what the entrepreneurs have paid a year in advance, there is no more to give, and we are still going to them today, because at the end of the year, we demand that we pay taxes again six months in advance. That's what we've been through. This is what we've been through and what we're seeing today is the result. The U.S. Freedom Union will be the first to support this bill. We urge all deputies to take this very seriously and to give their votes. And I suggest you put this bill to a vote tomorrow, because today we're not going to get 226 votes, and we're going to deliberately bury everything that's necessary for the Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u133	The faction of the Ukrainian Compatriot, Matthew, is a national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Please give the floor to my colleague, Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u135	Let's do it. Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u136	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, is extremely interesting in his offer to protect conscientious tax payers and conscientious owners, who sometimes suffer from additional tests. Of course, today’s control authorities vary whether or not they are needed, sometimes planned, sometimes pre-planned to conduct these tests. What are they called upon to do? They are challenged, first of all, what we have to do with the tax service is to fill the local and state budgets, because what we have to hide is a catastrophic situation today with the budget being filled. And you all understand that very well. The other side is let's put our hands on the heart and honestly, and let's face it, there's a significant part of the unconscionable business that in all ways avoids paying taxes. And that's exactly what the tests show when the checks add up. The draft, submitted by Smitzh, primarily refers to the types of checks, the order of the checks and the procedure of the documentary checks. At the faction of the Company of Ukraine, we have considered the bill very carefully, and it is his fault that the criteria are clearly not set out, exactly what information should be considered to be reasonable, and what exactly is the source of such well-founded information. There's just a wish that's justified or unwarranted, but there's no criteria. I think there's a question, and why do you do it once every five years, when you're all very well aware that we're three years old. What, though, about the fact that something has to be done beyond the limitations of old age? On this basis, we believe, and we have decided that it is necessary to agree with the committee’s point of view and to return the author to work. Of course, to take into account the committee's opinion first, the thought, the thoughts that were being heard here, and also to agree in many positions with what science and expertise had done, with the comments that it had recommended. So it's our idea to go back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Members of the People's Committee would like to sign up for an address to discuss the matter. Please, the Fatherland faction, the Kucheruk People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, today a question has been raised that is very important to Ukraine. Why? Because today, in fact, all business has decided to go in parallel with the state of Ukraine. What does it mean by parallel? It means not to get into the bosom of those controlling organs that work today. We passed those laws, that shameful Tax Code that allowed our jobs to be destroyed. And what do we see today? Today, just the left half of the room is completely gone. Who's talking about tests, about pressure? It's just entrepreneurs. Where's more business? Of course, this is the business of the Eastern regions. Tell me, please, how do you protect your entrepreneurs from the fact that any official has the right to come to the business and actually hang the seal and say that this company is not going to work today? Why is this being done? And to develop corruption in Ukraine. In order for the official brothers to take over. And as the reporter rightly said, until we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, return to our industrialists, to the real sector that really makes the national product of Ukraine, until we live that way. Why do we live like this? And I'll tell you why. Because now all business, any business, is thought to be bandits who don't want to give the state their own money. As long as Dad's system's here, we're not gonna have anything to do. That's what I'm telling you consciously, knowing the real situation in any field. So we have to create conditions for business to develop. And in order for business to develop, we have to take this small step, at least, to give hope to our businesses, that we are really going to do something to make them develop. That's why the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill. We realize that this is not enough. We understand that there is a need to abolish pension reform, the Tax Code, medical reform, sit down, discuss, make normal rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u140	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, look, we've had two defining days in the process of our work: Wednesday and Thursday. The laws required for Ukraine are being reviewed on Wednesday. On Thursday there are laws that are necessary for authority. And in a strange way, these laws and laws don't intersect. Because what we're seeing with you right now is a bill by a member of the Party of Regions -- we're ready to support it. But the Party of Regions itself is not ready to support this bill. Why? Because this bill is really starting to apply if it starts to work on those state-owned, I'm stressing the state scales and mechanisms that today can be put in place by strict, unruly and unfavorable entrepreneurs. Why is this happening? It's a mystery to me personally. Do we really understand what testing is? Checks are for today. And those who check are the gangs that primarily make sure that in places, I emphasize, everyone goes right, breathes right and looks the right way. And we're nothing, unfortunately, so far we can't do that. In the end, the representatives of the Party of Regions don't last long, and they say, enough. What's this mass that's not in the room right now says, no, we're fine with the situation that is. It doesn't suit us. Ukraine's not good enough. It doesn't set up tens of thousands of entrepreneurs. It doesn't set up people who can be out of work tomorrow without pay. It doesn't set up government funds that don't get. It doesn't set up a government budget that's not being filled. But the official council stands still and will stand to the end. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I have a proposition for you: let's make some of the bills that are being passed today and bring them out in other days. Because it's going down now. I'm not talking about our bill, it's clear that the Party of Regions will never vote for the state bill just because it was proposed by the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. But the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom shows an example of love for the Fatherland, respect for the Fatherland, she's willing to vote for the Bills of the Party of Regions. So let's show an example of how we should work. If we can't break it, then let's take it out on the days when the Party of Regions will be in place and not hiding in the absence, and it won't support these bills. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u141	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u142	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u143	Please Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Kirilenko, Fatherland. Friends, there are laws that are perfectly logically the product of efforts by both the national MPs and social associations and trade unions. And then a very prepared, thorough document goes into the hall. There are laws written by an MP who felt in his heart, in his soul, in his fate that this is the breath of life, that it must be settled immediately. And that's exactly what the laws are for both us and society. Such a law is the law of Gregory Smitsch, which he proposes. I'd like to call it the law. I'm afraid it's a project for now, and it's probably going to stay a project. Because, unfortunately, too much regret, what you wrote, you're taking the food away, but you're taking it away! What about living in this 100,000 - year - old army without this trough? How Can I Live? You must have felt it on yourself, being in the springs of one of the best, one of the largest gardening farms in Ukraine, you must have felt it on yourself. But you, you know, you're on the team today, where you probably felt the least. If the situation changes tomorrow, there will be what is happening under Kiev, under Dnipropetrovsk, under Zaporozhye. Because that's the result of these destructive tests -- a closed business, a compressed production. So those amazing numbers that you called can only be signed under them. A monopolized economy, where 90 percent, all in the hands of four or five oligarchs, who simplified taxes that optimized it. Offshores are leaking, and this pump is constantly operating — no taxes there, no taxes here as an investment. and the pump. Who do you think you're from? From who? But of the nonverbals for whom you have raised your voice today, we support you in this regard. Unfortunately, the "Ukrainian Semin", which I call you, this part of the hall that depends on the adoption of this law, will not support it. Guys, why don't we just come in and support it? A great law has been introduced into the hall today. Big, big, big! Without it, we cannot see the future! What a Europe with so much pressure on those who are still moving is doing something! What an open economy, what liberalisation! What are we talking about, friends? I beg you to excuse me. No redecorating, no reprocessing, in general, first and second readings. Let some of the people die that's left in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u145	Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u146	May I have a word with Michael Golovko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u147	Head Mikhail. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u148	Good afternoon! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. The honourable deputies, indeed, today we are considering in the session room the very important bills that are necessary for Ukrainian society. But unfortunately, we see an empty Hall of the Supreme Council, where MPs from the Party of the Regions have no intention of supporting these important bills, even by their party. Today we've been looking at a number of bills that are needed, namely, this bill, which can actually stop this vacchanal, which is on the side of a repressive tax machine that destroys small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine and by the rating agencies of Doing business, we, Ukraine, are taking 137 places in the world and, practically, behind those states near both the Philippines and Laos. So we need today really, really important methods to protect our little middle-sized business. We can see how tax is being eliminated today, and it's not allowing us to develop. In Europe, medium-sized businesses occupy, practically, 60 percent of the gross domestic product in the state, which forms and forms the economy, and creates the middle class. Instead, it is eliminated under the aegis of the Minzdho, which today destroys small and medium-sized businesses, and instead offers prospects for the development of monopolies and oligarchs who do not pay taxes but export their capitals abroad to offshore offshore offshore. We have also registered our laws of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association – 1249 and 1250 – is one about simplified procedure and enterprise registration and also about the elimination of private monopolies, which has already been discussed today. Indeed, those monopolies that destroy. An economy and a small medium-sized business that should shape the Ukrainian state. Instead, these bills haven't been here for more than a year, in the session hall, we're waiting for them, there's no way we can get a look at them, and so our voters can hear the position of the opposition, the All-U.S. Freedom Union, and the representatives of the Party of Regions lobbying their oligarchs, who have no intention of being able to develop our businesses and small, medium-sized businesses. But today, Ukrainian society sees who supports producers who pay taxes, who fill the Pension Fund, where there is a big hole in which pensions are paid; who is on the side of the people; and who serves the oligarchs. So we call for support for this bill, understanding that it will not be voted on by the representatives of the Party of the Regions, although their representative has registered, but we still call on all the MPs who stand up for the state and patriotic position, to support the bill in question, and to support those bills that can't be considered here: both the elimination of private monopolies, and the simplified registration of entrepreneurs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u149	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of Nechayev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u150	Good afternoon. Alexander Nechayev, Crimea, District 9 I don't understand what's going on in our room right now. A representative of the Party of the Regions is registering a bill. You say it's necessary -- and you blame the Party of Regions for the fact that the Party of Regions has initiated this. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. Let's see, I've been quiet for a year, I haven't broken any of you, so let's put it this way: I have three minutes -- I want to say them. Next. My dears, let me put it this way, I also understand that even if the entire hall, the whole part of the hall votes, there will be no votes. You don't have to vote him today. I'm addressing my colleague: the bill is very necessary, and, I'm sure, if I take it for work and make it a bill not as Mrs. Lapina says in half a step, but make it along with industry and entrepreneurs, such that for three or four steps, and bring it out for hearing a little later, let it be there in a month, then it will pass. I'm sure you'll be supported by all the industrialists. Thank you for not interrupting. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u151	Thank you. We've got another minute. I beg of you, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. I ask you personally to pay attention to the resonance expressed by the consideration of this question. Our committee has already presented and discussed five bills on this issue: one of the former Supreme Council until the second reading, which prohibits business stops other than court decisions; several government and several deputies. I suggest. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I propose that we bring these bills together for consideration and bring them to the next sessional week so that we can consider all the bills that have already been tabled today in the Supreme Council that touch on the test, understanding the resonance of the question in the Hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u153	Thank you. I want to introduce myself to Alexander Kugel. I am Vladimir Vasilovic, not Vladimir Volodymyrovic. You call me all the time. It's been a couple of times. I am, for everyone, just in case. Yeah, it's a line. Dry line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful to the Ukrainian National MP from Freedom for his kind and nutritious words. It's never too late to learn. There was a time when I studied at Michael Pavlovsky and Vladimir Polochalo, who unfortunately are not with us right now. I studied in Valentina Goshovsky and Basil Harry. You too are studying. But that's why: First. Discuss the texts of the bills, discuss the speeches, discuss the arguments. Do not provoke the name of the needy replica. Don't give anyone credit because you're going to get an answer. Colleagues! From now on, your behavior stinks of political ignorance. Remember, you are as good a deputy as we are. You have political responsibility for everything that is going on in this session room. It's been a year. It's time for you to report to your precincts. Then you will have the moral right to make remarks, to analyze some bills that you, most young deputies, have not seen in your eyes! My orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u155	Thank you, thank you. You've heard all the speeches. I give the floor to the report for the closing word, Gregory Eudkoymovich Smythuch. Please. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Thank you to the national MPs who took part in the discussion of this issue, I think, is important. I accept the criticism that said that the law is really imperfect in that part that this law cannot settle all matters. After all, 70 authorities have the right to inspect businesses. 44 – they have the right to stop businesses, if any, in their opinion. And accordingly, these authorities are governed by different laws, different laws. And of course, one law cannot change the situation as a whole. But my idea was to focus on the real sector, I emphasize. Not generally. Start at one step. And of course, what I heard on the committee, and what I heard here in the hall, I'm very glad that there's something to think about and what to work on. I would certainly ask you, Vladimir Vasilovich, to put you first in the vote to return this bill to work. And at the same time, colleagues, you and your organizations, which you associate with and have associations, social groups, etc. Send your suggestions and really maybe prepare a fundamental project. And it's no big deal to me that we discussed this today. This is about Ukraine, this is about our citizens and our businesses. I would be very grateful if my request and your active participation in the work or the new edition, or the broader meaning of the new edition of this law, on all the issues you see, from which you communicate, which you understand, which you can express because of your legislative position. I think the result would be a good bill that would be a useful first step for our citizens. Please support and thank you very much for seeing this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear it. I should be the first to lay the groundwork for the Rules. It won't be accepted as a basis, I'll put it on the first rereading. Yeah, right? I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 2679) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the organization of checks, for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:03]] For 135 Against 0, holding back, 11, not voting, 219. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 8, Parentage Party 55, Vitalia Klicka Strike 32, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 7. I'm asking for your attention! I'm betting on voting on draft Law 2679 to be sent to the committee for re-reading. People's deputies, please vote. All members, please vote. Vote in person. [[13:32:07]] For 230 Against 0, holding back - 1, not voting - 136. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party 73, Parenthood 57, Vitalia Klicka 33, Freedom 31, Company 27, non-fractional 9. So this important law committee is going to work with the reporter and we're going to look at it. Dear colleagues, the draft Act No.2692 amending the Ukrainian Law on Export (Export) Fees for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops is being considered to abolish the export (export) duty for sunflower seeds. How would you like to view it? Short cut? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[13:33:32]] For-93 Against 3, held – 10, not voted – 249. The decision is not taken. The factions. I invite Alexander Borisovich Mirnoy, Ukrainian national deputy for a report. In 10 minutes, you have time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u158	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Distinguished colleagues from the Party of Regions! Hall of honor! Dear, countless colleagues in the hall! Your attention, Mr. Jaroslave, is on the proposal for a draft Act amending the Act on Export rates, i.e. export duties for the seeds of certain oil crops for the removal of the export (export) duty on sunflower seeds (registration number 2692 from 02.04. 2013), introduced by me and the Ukrainian national deputy Miroshnichenko Igor Mihajlovich. The bill proposes that export duties be abolished for sunflower seeds. Today, according to the Law on Export Export Fees for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops, the export duty on sunflower seeds is 10 percent of its customs value. Export duties are a factor that inhibits the export of sunflowers, which undermines Ukraine’s investment climate and economic potential. In addition, Ukraine’s cancellation of export duties was one of the key requirements of the European Union as part of the free trade negotiations. In accordance with the provisions of the section of the Association Agreement, the parties do not continue to impose or impose any, I would stress, any customs or other measures having equivalent effect in relation to exports from Ukraine to the European Union and vice versa. According to Russia’s experience, export crop export regulation is not optimal because it reduces cropland under these crops. On the contrary, his absence in other countries has recently enabled him to increase the production of crops that have attractive export colors. Therefore, the need to cancel the export duty on sunflower seeds is primarily due to the need to ensure Ukraine’s clear compliance with its international obligations and to avoid the adverse impact of export duties on the national economy. This is the protocol part of my speech. And now I'm going to try to explain in a normal language what this is all about. Today, you know, a sunflower is a stock market and the price of a sunflower is shaped by international traders. And given the situation after the introduction of the duty, the fair price of the farmer cannot be obtained because the exporter gives a fair price minus 10 percent because he has to pay export duties on the border. In addition, the costs of a logistics exporter are much higher than those of an internal processor. Our processor uses the situation objectively, and we cannot reproach him because there are conditions that are conducive, paying 10 percent less than a fair price. Because he pays exactly the same money that the exporter pays. But given the logistics that factories are much closer than exporting factories, they give these two coins more than logistics and take away the whole sunflower. What's going on? Each year, depending on the price of a sunflower of four, I emphasize between 4 billion and 6 billion dollars. Thus, it is redistributed from the agricultural producer for the benefit of the processors. And you and I can say that, given this tax, the indirect rural tax in the last 10 years has become practically the most modern oil industry in the world. New powers are being introduced. It's a complete reconstruction. We already have a surplus of processing capacity, because we can process up to 15 million tons of sunflower today, and real Ukraine is growing 9-10 million. So the investment climate in this segment becomes attractive. But by whom? There's no such thing as a miracle. For the peasants. And to date, the price of a sunflower below 3,000 dollars does not even cover the cost of producing this sunflower. But all of this is because, according to our statistics, more than 80 percent of solar oil exports are raw oil that is exported either by tanks or by tankers does not pay export duties. So if you get 90 percent of the raw material, you get 100 percent of the money for the semi-manufacturing. Because it's a stock market again. And we have to be honest with you -- yes, there was no money in the state to support this sector, there was no money in the state to survive 50,000 workers in this sector. We put, as always, when the state is bad, all the burden on the farmers. And the farmers, with honor, endured that burden. They've invested, because it's actually the money of the farmers, they've invested over 40 billion in the oil-fat industry. The time has come. I'm not even talking about repaying debts. It's time to just give a fair price. Because if you give 5,000 dollars to the exporter and 5,000 dollars to the internal processor, of course, the raw material will go to the internal processor, because it has a logistics of 50 dollars, and the exporter has 200 dollars, and our manufacturer will add 50 dollars, give 5,000 50 dollars, and take all the raw materials. And we have to make it clear that if you and I don't make decisions that we should, we have to, we have to put the element of justice into economic processes, we're going to start scratching it out sooner or later. Because first we do those movements that we do, and then we start fined the peasant, then we introduce laws called the Law on Seizures, which completely does not protect our land, but allows the government apparatus to fine the producers. Because the manufacturer doesn't have this paper that says "seizure." But is this the protection of the earth? We're breaking any bill that allows peasants to improve their lives a little bit. Now we have a draft bill on the Supreme Council to raise the rates and rents that have already been made and raise the taxes, and then we're going to be sending these taxes to rural development. But if this is the case, then a special tax should be imposed on metallurgical enterprises, because they live in this city and work in this city to develop this tax, for example, the same Anakiyo. Then we have to put a tax on gas stations that go throughout Ukraine, and in every area and area where the gas is passing through to pay taxes. We have to put taxes on shipbuilding companies and companies, because they work in Santa Claus, let them pay extra taxes. It's an absolute lack of logic, it doesn't make any sense. But for some reason, we think that as much of a peasant as you can take -- it's no big deal, it's no big deal, it's no big deal, it's no big deal, it's no big deal. And look who's got the most work done on the ground today. Kernell Company. Well done, thank God. But on what account? And because they just had access to raw materials that had less value than fair. So we're allowing people not only to improve their production, but also to benefit from this extra revenue, because it's an income, to take away all the land that can be taken away. Still, with money, lobbying your own interests. So the respectable society, on the one hand -- 50 working and modern production -- is on the other hand -- millions of peasants, especially in this year, who count every penny. So given the current state of production, we're not going to do any harm to fat oil. I beg of you, let us hear the voice of reason and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u159	Wait a minute, Alexander Borisovich. Alexander Borisovich, a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question? Please sign up. People's deputy Haydosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u160	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like a word with the deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u161	Turn on the microphone of the Popescu People's Deputy, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u162	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The high-ranking reporter! Your arguments sound convincing, but there are also economic risks. What do I mean? If your bill is adopted, it may lead to a decrease in the production volume of sunflower oil in Ukraine and its exports from Ukraine, which in turn may lead to a loss of Ukraine's leadership position on the external market of high-grade oil processing. And we're also going and looking at our closest competitors: Russia and Belarus, which at this time in the external market are beginning to grow their own export potential in the given segment. On the one hand, we want to solve the questions about manufacturers, and on the other hand, we can trim the positions we have today. How do you see how to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. That's a good question, but, believe me, the people who were preparing this question for you, they kind of came to the treatise one-sided. The point is, I've already pointed out that at an absolutely equal price, if you can give a thousand bracelets and an exporter and a processor, the logistics component that you have to deliver, these thousand kilometers, is much larger than the internal manufacturer, because usually the processors, they're within a 50km radius of the processing area. So our internal manufacturer will always give us 50, 100 dollars more than the exporter, because it's a logistics factor. And there's no way we're going to lose our external markets. First of all, we have the latest production that reduces loss and increases productivity. Secondly, we have less logistics, thirdly, there's a concept like brand. So there's Ukrainian sunflower oil that people get used to. Not enough, they get used to those manufacturers who supply them, become accustomed to their order or disorder, then do not work with them, become accustomed to their system of algorithms.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u164	National Deputy Guzenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u165	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy, Matthew? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. I'm going to ask you four questions, and I'm going to ask you all four questions briefly and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u167	If they give me time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u168	briefly and clearly: how much will the budget be lost and how much will the trader get from this law - once. The other one. It's draining the earth for today and we have a two-pronged processing system. Will the earth’s treatment situation worsen by introducing this law? That's the second question. Question three. We need, we're today. Will our manufacturer — a manufacturer that is compatible with the importer — come to worse today’s priority for our manufacturer? And question four. That 10 percent you're talking about, where are they going? They'll go after a farmer or a trader. What are you so keen about today? Where are they going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u169	Thank you for asking. I'll probably start with the last one, because I'm looking after the farmers, and the traders take care of themselves. And believe me, you know exactly what the lobby is. And it's this money that's going to go to the farmer because of the price increase. As far as the first question is concerned, it's a manufacturer. So if today the manufacturer sells three thousand sunflowers, then if we cancel the bribe, he can sell at least three thousand 200. Because there will be, there will be competition between the trader. There will be competition between the trader and the local processor. Because this is the answer to the first question, the budget won't lose anything because we don't have exports today because there's no competition. Do you understand? Because there's a price that's lower than fair and that's why they don't. As for the protection of the land, I'm sure you've listened very little, whether there's an export duty or not. I answer your third question. And it depends on how we as legislators protect this land. If only we'd passed the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u170	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The reporter is Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I will do my best clearly and briefly. The committee recommends rejecting the bill, I'll explain why. This bill, which he introduced in Ukraine, was passed by us, our agricultural committee, and I was the author of it. And today, I am proud that this has enabled Ukraine to address the issue of recovery and development of the oil sector. Because oil factories would be the same as today with sugars and other factories. We didn't become a nation that, like Aboriginals, exports raw materials, and we gradually go in the way that allows the final product to be exported, which provides additional cost, additional jobs that enable Ukraine to show that it is a civilized state. Because we used to give jobs to Germans, Turks, and other manufacturing businesses abroad. And most of all, if a fellow peasant is lobbying, no peasant, a sincere peasant, a master on earth, will care for the endless expansion of the sunflower’s seed. People are cute, seven years of science-based seismics, seven years of sunflowers no longer to come! And we have monoculture, we don't need to increase the production and sowing of sunflowers in Ukraine, because we're going to burn the earth to the point that I don't know what we're going to leave to children and grandchildren. And the last. It's not true that money will go to peasants. We studied the matter deeply. However, those who export are still reprocessing, and today this nuance is not so important to them. Lobbies are purely traders, traders are mostly foreign, not those who grow and live in Ukraine. And that's why I've been talking to you, and I want to say that these traders have been following me for years, asking me to repeal this law. For the sake of Ukraine, it cannot be canceled. I sincerely believe that a colleague has pursued a noble goal, but the result will be very unfavorable. It's to the detriment of Ukrainian land, Ukrainian economy, and ultimately a peasant. For what will he lord it? Please do not support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u172	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Wait a minute. Any questions? I'm continuing the plenary session for 15 minutes. People's deputies please sign up. National Deputy Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u173	I'd like to ask you a question like that. Please tell me exactly what you said. In fact, the introduction of this export duty, it really saved you then? Confirm that. It saved the sector itself, it saved the jobs itself, it enabled it to fill the budget itself. What are the risks today that the contrast itself will result in a reverse result?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u174	I want to say that more than six times the production of oil has increased. We have over 60,000 people employed today in the oil industry. If we cancel our duties. but it's not true that it's not agreed to with the WTO. We've been given an adaptation period of 15 years. And 100,000 tons to the sunflower, under these conditions, are already being exported without duty. If we're going to set the standard, then those who take out the sunflower are going to get the VAT back to them. And it's got a bigger profit. The VAT is not returned to those in Ukraine. And because of that, the exporters had more profit. From there came this export duty, which is equal to the value added tax that is returned on export. So that's what I'm saying in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u175	Grigory Smudged, non-factionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u176	Thank you. What I'm saying is that what Catherine Timofievna said could be done without talking. I've worked all my life in agriculture, and I'm absolutely saying that this is a law that will bring enormous, huge damage to the state. We would actually have today with the oil-fat industry that we have in the sugar industry, where there are nine of Winnitzin's 40 factories left. It's in the liquor store, where it's left over from the 15th and the 9th. And, Catherine Timothy, everything needs to be done to prevent this from happening. Because today the Winnitz oil mill, which was reborn after such a law that was already about to be different, accepts 3,200, and the traders pay 2,940. These are the exact figures that are available today. It's a lobbyist bill, it's not needed by the state, it's not needed by our people. What's more, the pie people have betrayed, handed over to businessmen who are now growing, selling to traders. And the traders are making money on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u177	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u178	Thank you. Time is up, please sit down, Catherine Timothy. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for factions, five factions per minute. According to the Rules, we can give you one minute. Article 33, part two. Please, it's written in 15 minutes. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u179	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. We have considered this bill carefully. We also think it's purely lobbyist, it's absolutely nothing for the economy of Ukraine, it's just creating additional risks. In its time, export duties were introduced to preserve the oil industry, save jobs, fill the budget. The author of the bill, speaking, said that we needed to expand the area of sunflower sowing. We had reached the time when we needed to save Ukraine from the sunflower, for we had been sowing sunflowers in the sunflower for years, and even the weeds in those areas did not grow. Everyone here was complaining about a peasant who was losing. Tell me, have you grown in this ratio of solar power production, increased pay for pies, increased wage in the structure of self-sustainment, or won the village? No, it's not. There won't be a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u180	National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u181	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, I remember when there was a zero rate of export duty. And then seven sectors of the economy of Ukraine were destroyed. It's not just olive oil, it's also a makuch combo, it's also oil that goes for technical purposes for varnishes and paints, it's also soapy Ukrainian, it's basically the whole economy sector. In no case should we go to the adoption of this law. Because imagine that the sunflower will be taken out, and these seven branches will be shut down in Ukraine. So, dear friends, with all due respect for the author of this law, I think he's either thoughtless or in principle harmful to the economy of Ukraine. And I don't think you can support him in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u182	National MP Shapovalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u183	Please give my word to my colleague Blagodar Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, this is a very important moment that I want to focus on. Under the Agreement on a Deep and Comprehensive Area of Free Trade between Ukraine and the European Union, which is an integral part of the Association Agreement. Regarding export duties, the parties agreed that, as a result of the acquisition of the agreement, no new ones would be introduced in bilateral trade, and the export duties currently in force in Ukraine would be phased out over a period of 10 years. At the same time, a special protective mechanism is in place for individual products, such as sunflower seeds. The general term of this mechanism is 15 years. So Ukraine stood up for the protection of the internal manufacturer. The law is completely contrary to this arrangement. That's why we are absolutely against voting for this bill. Why not a thought?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u185	People's Deputy Kyle, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u186	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u187	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, honourable colleagues, judging from what we've heard in this session hall, the fictitious thinking and attitude towards the land that was under the Communist regime has actually changed. What is sifting? The whole civilized world has never even heard of a marriage. And today, agricultural producers are forced to pay fines because the state is formally applying trade in agricultural products. We have long suggested that soil fertility rates be applied. And if a farmer rents land at a certain rate, he has to maintain it at that level regardless of what he sows or grows. This is a real market economy and support for soil fertility, not citizens' fraud. Yet, this bill is more for the support of the manufacturer, not the trader or the processor. So we still have to turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u188	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u189	Our political power stands in the positions of state protectionism and, of course, we must, in making this important decision, bear in mind that the main priority must be to develop domestic production, create new jobs and develop those locomotives that form the basis of our competitiveness, including in the internal and international markets. So our political power will abstain from voting on this bill, and we would also like to note that in order to bring about order in agriculture and peasants have actually received all the necessary preferences, opportunities and, ultimately, justice in these matters, we need a new government, a new government, a new agricultural and industrial bloc in a government that will take care of the peasant. And here's one bill that's not as good as it is, and whatever it is radical and progressive, it doesn't solve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u190	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. One minute for the National MP. Five minutes. National Deputy Kozub, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u191	Sukhmu’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u192	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Stoyan*. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u193	The World Bank, a little bit of history, the European Development and Reconstruction Bank in the late 1990s in the South of Europe was building a network of oil processing plants. He does not want to sow the sunflower of Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, and the Czech Republic. And every session, every vocation here, there are lobbyists to make our country more corrupt. And now, specifically and briefly, the numbers. So in the past year, while not increasing the sunflower’s solitude, Ukraine exported oil abroad for $4 billion. Ukrainian solar power has grown from 12 centimetres per hectare to 35 centimetres per hectare since 2007. Ukrainian processors made 6 billion dollars of net profit. Plus the VAT they paid, the only social contribution they paid, and it's scary for those who are introducing these bills -- we didn't just bypass Argentina last year after producing and exporting oil, we circled Russia. And you're beating the crap out of me, because I'll tell you more, a similar bill in the session room would never have brought Stephen Cloud or Slava Stecko, John Rabbit or Yuri Kostenko. Never would a Ukrainian nationalist bring such filth to the hall. This is the course of the exiled Cossacks, but not the nationalists. This bill does not have the right to exist in any way. And one more thing. An increase in solar power to 13 million tons of oil per year is expected in 2013. In the past 2013, the number of investments in the oil processing sector has increased dramatically. Well, as much as you can talk about it here. The Ukrainian nationalist will take care of the protection of the domestic manufacturer, not to yell here, not to shout, not to shout. Well, you can yell at me. Well, you're not going to convince me because I was here on the fourth call to the megaphone when we were saving the export bribe. We saved him, we saved him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, don't shout, I'm not afraid of you. I gave you an argument. Call yours if you have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u196	People's Deputy of Switzerland, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u198	Turn on Alexia Kaida's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u199	Thank you. Alexei Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopil. The former head of the Ternopil district council, the district council, who expresses mistrust to the previous speaker and then defiantly flees from Ternopol and tells us that he is not afraid of anyone. He ran away twice. This is the deputy who voted in favour of the Kharkiv Accords and then told him that his card had been voted on, walked on the Supreme Council a card and voted. And essentially, I'm going to say yes to the law. Who was buying sugar factories right now? Who cut them now? These are your oligarchs, these are your criminal structures that are engaged in the destruction of the entire Ukrainian business. And you don't have to tell me who or the Cloud or the Yaroslava Stecko would be introducing this bill. Our faction will support and clearly vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u200	National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u201	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. I'll give you a few more arguments about what we're discussing today. I remember, and you remember the time when the Rama margarine was mass imported to Ukraine, there were others. Why did he drive? Because Ukrainian seed, or direct raw material, even without prior processing, was found abroad, and from there came oil — the main raw material for the production of margarine. But it was on 33 percent of the carousel, and that's why the margarine was at such a price that it was insurmountable, so it had to be imported by someone else. That is, if we save the duty for sunflower seeds, we'll save another branch -- margarine. Today, this is a serious article in the structure of feeding poor Ukrainians. So, dear friends, let's not just deal with the interests of traders or traders there, but in general, it's not possible to adopt this law in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u202	National deputy Zelik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u204	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u205	Marcinkov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Montenegro. I'd like to say that let the Party of Regions tell the truth, because we're in Chernigovishka seeing how today "Kernel," the enterprise that heads it, is the owner of the ex-national deputy from the Party of Regions is destroying the entire industry and its objectives. We see people being thrown out of a job today that had an agricultural producer, especially the "Friend Nova" enterprise. And we see that this is today actually the lobbyism of the Carnell Party of Regions and Enterprises, which is actually a monopoly today on the oil market. So let us not lie to the electorate today but tell the truth that you are working for the oligarchs, working for the Yanukovich family, and want to do everything you can to destroy today’s producers and to buy for the value of the producers today, especially the crops that go to the oil. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u206	For the final word, the reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine Mirny Alexander Borisovich, is invited. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Too bad that Mr. Jaroslav Dry escaped for the third time, I was prepared to respond to all the allegations that were heard at our address. And I want to remind those who remain. And who cut the sugar factories that Carnell bought? "Kernel" was cut. Do you see what you've done now? You're the money of those people who didn't get it for the sunflower, you've destroyed the sugar sector of Ukraine. Because it's precisely this weak policy, the weak one, that I emphasize, that there is no external market for Ukrainian sugar. Burak is not sold abroad, sugar is not sold. Mrs. Herman, 41 factories are left with 198 -- it's your policy to support each other and destroy everyone. So, Your Honor, let's be responsible for what's done. And when you talk about margarine, I confirm your words, we didn't have the oil-fat industry. But we're 10 years old, 10 years old peasants have been working to make the oil-fat industry rise and is now the most modern in the world. Maybe it's time for the villagers to stop stealing or something!? What do you think, Fatherland representative, we're protecting them? Are we going to talk about that 50,000? What about millions of workers? Are you talking about the traders? But the traders don't care, there's a world price, and they're going to give exactly how much the world gives. And our processors use what's a restraining duty and don't pay our peasants. Are you responsible for I'm against it and our faction against it! And we're going to look the villagers in the eye. I don't know what you're gonna do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u208	The closing word of the co-rapporteur, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Catherine Vasuk, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! Where the economy is concerned, you have to count, and you have to rule out total emotion. Look, the whole hall is united in one thing, that today we have to work to get our people to work so that the oil is cheaper in the store and everyone can buy it, just like the margarine, like everything else, rather than lobbying the interests of traders. They will never share the price with a peasant. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have businesses, and these are not my concerns. But I want to answer a young colleague who said that the issue of marriage was out of date. This question will never get old. I don't understand, maybe on other issues, but on the question of what is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u210	Thank you, Catherine Timofievna. Turn on the microphone for Hanna Herman's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u211	Both the opposition and the authorities, the opposition, were constructively united against the passage of lobbyist laws. And you don't have to yell here because the voters are calling that the author of this lobbyist law has eight acres of land. 8,000 acres [8,000 ha] of land on which the sunflower is produced, and it is there that it is able to create better conditions for its business. This is clear, this is clear, and Parliament must unite against the use of the national legislative body for its own business interests of these "ported gas-truck Cossacks".
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-20-m0.u212	The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft Act (2692) amending the Ukrainian Law on Export (Export) Fees for Seeds of Certain Oil Cultures on Cancellation of Export (Export) Customs for Sunflower Seeds -- to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[14:14:09]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of the Regions is 0, Fatherland is 5, Vitalia Klicka is 0, Freedom is 32, Ukraine's company is 0, non-fractional is 1. Any other suggestions on this bill? None. The bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, today at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the theme "Youth Participation in Social Life: Economic Activity." The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
