ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:11]] There are 383 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. So I'm asking the factions to sign up. Sign up. The speech is given by Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u2	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I'm forced to start my speech with a sad fact. The vast majority of Ukrainian media belonging to the oligarchs and their clans, or those receiving grants from abroad, that is, funded for a programme abroad, have declared an information war against their own people. And this war is going in every direction. Clearly, if we look at these basic directions for the conduct of an information war against our own people, the objective is to justify the signing of the treacherous EU Association Agreement and to sanctify the continuation of policies that have already led Ukraine to the collapse and impoverishment of its own people. The party of power and the oligarchy opposition are doing everything they can to distract citizens from what is in the state budget, that is, today we have a hole in the state of over 40 billion dollars and in November nothing will pay the salaries, first of all to the representatives of the budget area. From the fact that they are not going to help pensioners, veterans, Chernobylers, Afghans, children of war, and many other categories that need urgent help today to solve their problems. In 2014, the Cabinet of Ministers failed to prepare this state budget, deriving from national interests. And he couldn't because there's an economic collapse. There are no credit resources, and they do not know where to take money, where to run, and who to apply once again to save themselves today and practically send the people of Ukraine to slaughter. Requirements to reduce the financing of social programs. And it's also a very serious threat to us, because these requirements are echoing from abroad. The people of Ukraine are not asking to reduce the financing of social programs. The price increase for gas and self-production electricity is what both the International Monetary Fund and this traitorous Association Agreement require. This is also the rise in housing and utility tariffs in Ukraine, and the events that were in Poltava are testimony to that, and we, the Company faction, support the position of the Poltavniks that they came and took the city council with demands not to raise tariffs. We also need to understand today that the state budget next year, it and its adoption are also complicated by the fact that relations with the countries of the Customs Union and Russia are getting worse, the situation is getting worse, markets are being limited to the realization of the product produced by the Ukrainian producer. And thus, the situation becomes very serious. As the expansion of goods from Europe is increasing. All this again gives me reason on behalf of our faction to claim that Ukraine, like a bull on a rope, is being dragged to where many of its problems are already. At the Yalta conference, this was discussed openly, but this information war is also restricting the ability of Ukrainian citizens to hear what we are warned about and warned about from Europe. It was there that Yalta said that the people of Ukraine, do not expect that the economic situation in Ukraine will not improve for the next seven years or 10 years. No one is going to come to the European Union in the next 20 years. That is, we are making a covenant today, and we have no right to protect our interests in Europe. There too was said, and including Lama, former head of the World Trade Organization, warned against running recklessly to Brussels. He warned that Ukraine would lose its economic sovereignty. This is frankly said by those who are well - versed in world trade and in the consequences of these processes. Dominic Stross-Kan has even warned us that we don't know what will happen to Europe in 20 years. In Bulgaria, you know how you devastated Bulgaria today. I'm not talking about the nuclear power plant being shut down, but we have 5 in Ukraine. Next. Today, the agricultural sector of Bulgaria has been destroyed. Tomatoes have already been brought to Bulgaria from Holland, and this is what happened. In Romania, a 25 - percent reduction in the salaries of budgeters was made by 15 percent of the pension. And our Euro-Integrators here in this Ecstasy promise to raise their pension, their salary. But these are the requirements of the European community. The President of Ukraine, they say, gave us a reason, well, to sigh somewhere, because he said he was going to involve Ukraine by signing an association agreement, because the task of Ukraine today is to get Europe out of the crisis. That's the president talking. What, then, about the Ukrainian manufacturer? He's saying this and on the basis that we're going to increase by 7 percent by joining an association, we're going to increase economic space, trade space for European production. And since there is a constant policy of banning the holding of Ukrainian citizens' assemblies to hold a referendum today, we now claim that Ukraine is in the process of usurpating power and initiating the usurpation of power -- a party of power and oligarchs. It is they today who are violating the harsh and brutal Constitution of Ukraine and European values, which say that the will of the people is the priority. And those congregations that took place in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Simferopol, Chernigu, Zaporozhye will be held in six other cities in Ukraine tomorrow, and they will testify -- the people of Ukraine support the Company's position to hold a referendum on the definition of the vector of external economic integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u3	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Arsenius Yatzenuk. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u4	Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! We are on the final line for the signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Association and Economic Integration. I would like to remind you that Parliament has done a great deal to get this Agreement signed. The Ukrainian opposition clearly and consistently advocated the signing of the Treaty and all the legislation that Ukraine needed in order for the Agreement to be signed, approved and supported by the Ukrainian opposition, and this enabled them to accept and show to the civilized world that we are able to negotiate when it comes to the country's national interests. I want to remind you that we had three demands. Three requirements, two of which are fully met and the third is still unfulfilled. The third requirement, namely, the cessation of political persecution, is a key basis and a requirement that will enable Ukraine to take the European path of development and become part of a large European family. This is about the question of the liberation of Timoshenko Ulysses Volodymyrna. There are now fairly long-term insinuations as to whether there are legal grounds or whether there are legal reasons or not. I would like to make it very clear that there was no legal basis for the imprisonment of Yulia Tymoshenko, but there are all legitimate grounds for the President of Ukraine to sign the act of pardoning Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovna. The liberation of Julia Timoshenko is the way to the liberation of Ukraine. And we urge Viktor Yanukovich to do that. I would like to take a stand on the legal basis of such a release. Our political opponents from the Party of Regions are quite free to interpret legislation signed by President Viktor Yanukovic himself. I'd like to go to the Party of Regions: still respect the leader of your party and read what he signs. In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 902/2010 of 16 September 2010, the approved Code of Pardon, paragraph 6 of which makes it very clear that: "Concerning the pardon of convicted persons who have not received half of their term of punishment, as well as the harassment of persons convicted of serious or particularly serious crimes, may be satisfied with the circumstances that require special humane treatment." I'll remind you. Ukrainian President Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich made it clear that he was willing to consider providing medical assistance to Julia Timoshenko for the purpose of carrying out the humanitarian mission. All legitimate grounds are in the act of the President, and the act clearly states that the President of Ukraine has a legitimate right to make a decision. We ask the President to take a pen and a note and sign this decision, and to put a dot in this situation, and to open a completely new page -- a new page for the development of the Ukrainian state and our relationship with Western partners, and its relations, including with Ukrainians, who demand justice in terms of themselves and in relation to Yulia Timoshenko. As far as political justice is concerned, we must not forget the economic justice that is now lacking in the country. What is it? This is about very serious, I emphasize the incredibly serious economic problems that exist in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the point is that these problems did not arise yesterday and not the day before yesterday. We can clearly state, over the last three years, that this President and this government have been in power for three years, that Ukraine lives exclusively on credit. The total debt of the Ukrainian State reached nearly $70 billion, nearly twice as much as when Viktor Yanukovic entered the office of the President of Ukraine and became Prime Minister Mikola Azarov. In view of the significant deterioration in the situation in the external markets, we feel that the time of cheap borrowing for Ukraine is over. And so far, no economic strategy to answer any questions. First. How can debt be repaid, many billions of debts, and how can many billions of dollars be repaid? The other one. How to provide 2 million Ukrainians with jobs? It was a pre-election promise that was not simply not fulfilled, but also increased unemployment in Ukraine. Third. How can we address the problem of justice in the pension system? Four. How do you change the tax system and introduce a simple but effective tax system that will allow you to develop business? And the fifth. How can we stop the prosecution and the judicial system from protecting property rights, protecting every entrepreneur, and protecting every person who works for himself and can give work to other thousands? These questions are not answered. We address the Prime Minister of Ukraine in person, the time of empty talks is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u5	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u6	We require a specific action plan to answer these questions. If there are no answers, and we know there are no answers, we are, as the Ukrainian opposition, ready to present our country's development plan. But we have one requirement: that we give up our authority and implement our positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u7	Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u8	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. Dear Society, first of all on behalf of the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, welcome the lawyers of Ukraine with a professional holiday and express the hope that together we will build a just, legal system and an independent judiciary. Today we are in the final stages of the Euro-integration process, and we are dependent on the perspective of Ukraine: it will be civilised, European or colonially Eurasian. At the time left for the Vilnius Summit, we face two major threats: the danger of the outside – the breakdown of the Euro-integration process and the danger of the internal one – so that we do not be misled by the local Caliphs for an hour. The external danger is clearly geopolitical and is clearly associated with Moscow, which today has unleashed a total economic war against Ukraine, including trade, image, religious, information, cultural, and so forth. Not surprisingly, Moscow has become a prominent geopolitical player ever since it was able to subjugate Ukraine by false and subjugation. The inner front of this storm is a concerted orchestra of communists and the anti-Ukrainian selection of Medvedchuk. The Moscow threat is built on the post-Soviet, post-colonial dependence of Ukraine, cultural, mental, economic, political and so forth. Unfortunately, in addition to this, and the current regime is similarly weakened, Ukraine is weakened by the availability of post-colonial regimes. Because it was he who signed the anti-Ukrainian Kharkiv Agreements, because today he promotes Moscow values, protects the interests of the Russian Orthodox Church, the "Russian world" and so on. However, there is no less danger of a hidden Lotal character. It's persolidated by an effective regime that's actually trying to fake the very idea of European integration. Today we are asked by voters: What's the difference between you and the Yanukovich regime and whether or not Yanukovič is a nationalist today, and it's time for the Ukrainian spelling to be thrown into the Azarov language? Yes, there is a difference. And above all, strategic. It does not depend on today’s political timetable, on Ukraine’s postcolonial past. Because Ukraine has historically and mentally been, is and will be part of a European civilised continent. The difference is the same as today, and it's tactical. Because we, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom and Opposition Forces, want Ukraine to enter Europe as a full-fledged national state and join the family of the same national states of Europe. Today, we want Ukraine to have the same clear, civilized rules of the democratic system of political competition. We want every average Ukrainian to have the same high standards of social life that Europe has. Instead, the regime seeks to bring another Russian, perhaps even an independent, Kremlin - centered state to Europe. The regime seeks to bring to Europe an authoritarian, hard - authoritarian state with specific Ukrainian features, the so - called criminal stench. The regime seeks to bring Europe, not a state of self - sufficient citizens, but a State of a bereaved, uneducated, marginalized population. The real, not declarative, steps of the regime are evidence of such actions. First of all, in Europe, local self-government is a lactus paper of true democracy. But we have local self-governance in a targeted way, and it's reduced to the level of an unnecessary "fifth wheel in a state-governance vehicle." A clear example of this is ignoring the right of the capital Kyiv community to have its own self-governance. Is such a precedent possible in European capitals — Paris, London, or Berlin? And is it possible that in these capitals, the people’s deputies, who advocate the right of the community to self - rule, should be police, police, and criminal elements? Under the form of Euro-Integration Laws, the authorities are now trying to push out bills that will contribute to the full usurpation of power, such as the draft Act (No. 2522) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on strengthening the guarantees of independent judges will put the judiciary in full dependence on the President of Ukraine and the executive branch of power. Unless in a European state it is possible that the Party of Regions, the ruling party, as in another state, could usurp all power: the Party's leader is the Prime Minister, the Party's deputy head is the head of Parliament. It was not enough for the Supreme Judge, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, to become a substitute for the leader of the Party of the Regions. Another bill (number 2498) – amending some of Ukraine's national security laws – will legitimize the use of the army against its own people. In order for the so-called Anti-Rayder Bill No. 0887 to actually contribute to the legalization of any raid by the courts, depending on the President and the executive branch of power. Or perhaps European practice is in the same way as in our practice that the State Treasury has become an obedient instrument of manual financial policy when.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you. You have six minutes. Thank you, thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction. The leader of the faction is National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, our constituents! I want to address each and every one of you. First of all, thank you, last Saturday, I know that many of you have come to Moscow, and I know that many millions of Ukrainians have been watching sports. And I mean frankly, we're proud of sports achievements. But I'm afraid so. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, only we Ukrainians can be proud of sports achievements. We also want to be proud of achievements in the economy, in social standards, in the standard of living in Ukraine. And while we're not talking about defeats without conclusions, we can't keep moving. And I'd like to draw attention to a few important facts, important key things, without which, without any conclusions, we can't continue to build a country. So far, contrary to the Constitution and the Budget Code, the people’s deputies have not yet received the draft budget. the State budget, although the Constitution required this budget three weeks ago. Now we're being told that the government's economic bloc is being deployed. When I failed to do my job at home, I gathered abroad — I am convinced that such actions should be the responsibility. And I think it's only fair that in a month that the government has delayed the draft law, the cabinet ministers should not get paid. It is also necessary to provide in the Budget Code not only for the adoption of the budget, but for the responsibility of the government and the Prime Minister personally for violating the deadline for the submission of the country's main financial document. In general, it is understandable why there is no budget today. The economic situation in the country has been critical, budget deficits over eight months this year have doubled last year’s figures and have already accounted for nearly 35 billion dollars. Capital investments fell by 15 percent compared to last year. Production is falling in Ukraine. And in these circumstances, the authorities don't fight corruption to get billions of stolen funds into the budget, not cut costs to the higher authorities or to the repressive system, and the authorities will save people. Consider the 2013 budget. Just a few examples. There is a substantial reduction in education expenditure by 1.6 billion dollars. Below the critical level of funding of the Armed Forces. The authorities speak of a professional army, but they are unable to provide it at the right level. Because showings will not replace security, and financing an army can't be less than 1 percent. And Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, I'm sure, agrees with these figures as Secretary of Defense and understands what they're talking about. The cost of science is shrinking. Instead of 1.7 percent of GDP, as required by law, scientists receive only 0.3 percent. Spending on the "Available Housing" program is 1 bracelet for every citizen and 45 bracelets for everyone in line. The Strike Party is pushing the government to change the philosophy and emphasis of the State Budget next year. From ensuring the interests and needs of the authorities, officials, and those who protect them, to ensuring the social rights of Ukrainian citizens: teachers, doctors, social workers, scientists, pensioners, and others. I emphasize that we will not allow the budget to be approved in 10 minutes without discussion, as it has been done in the last three years. If someone thinks they're going to get the budget by November, and then they're going to think that people don't get the money because of the opposition, I want to stress that it's not going to work! It is best to count the budget immediately so that it does not have excellent repairs to cars of the representative class, rather than repairing offices that are being built, but rather supporting the country’s development. This requires not making new taxes that we see now, but ensuring transparency of government purchases and making it possible for businesses to work, allowing small and medium-sized businesses to work. Yesterday on the Conciliation Council, I insisted on including such projects in the agenda, but the authorities do not want to accept civilized business conditions. Dear friends, there are several bills in order tomorrow, including those introduced by the members of the strike faction, which are proposed to correct the most serious errors of the so-called pension reform. I ask my colleagues to support these bills separately from the party of the majority -- the factions of the Party of Regions and Communists -- because an effective state is not the one who will save its citizens. Dear colleagues, on a daily basis this week is also the appointment of local elections. But they can't be selective. In Kiev and four.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u11	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u12	In Kiev and four district centers, no city authority is chosen. The same is true in several district centers and mainly in central Ukraine. I emphasize that to all communities there should be only one approach. That is why we demand that the elections of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council, the heads: Cherkas, Chernigov, Herson, Mikolayev, and the elections in all communities where the right to self-government is violated. [[Applause]] If we don't solve these problems and destroy local self-government, then the same thing will happen in Poltava last week, and in the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Thank you, it's been seven minutes, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Mikola Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u14	Good morning, fellow officers, presiding officer! First of all, I'd like to address the strike faction and personally the leader of the Vitaly Klicka faction with his brother's victory last week. All of Ukraine has been afraid, and this is the victory of all of Ukraine, this is our victory, the Ukrainian sport. [[Applause]] Second, I'm addressing the Freedom faction. You have the responsibility for what happened at the stadium in Lviv. These are yours, your supporters have disgraced Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] As you act in Parliament, your activists act in the stadiums. And don't confuse Ukrainian patriotism with neo-Naziism. Patriotism is different. When Valentin Landik, a member of the People's Party of the Regions, and his working group of the Nord factory, produce products and the Maiden in Yukrein vary around the world. That's patriotism! Maria Vasilievna Matios, Ukrainian author. Her books are being translated into all languages of the world, and she is celebrating Ukraine. That's patriotism! And you will disgrace Ukraine! Now, with regard to the main issue on the agenda today, and I would like here to address our colleagues on the parliamentary majority, our allies on many issues, the faction of the Communist Party. Today you provoke Ukraine to hold a referendum. And here you pursue your narrow party goals, mobilize your electorate. As a result, you are not acting for the benefit of Ukrainian society. You are striking our future relations with Russia and Belarus, with the countries of the Customs Union. And I'll explain why. The Party of the Regions has never been a party of the East or the West. We have always pursued and implemented the pro-Ukrainian policy. And in these circumstances, when we have a strategic partner in Russia, we have strategic objectives that need to be addressed in the West. We are not talking about joining the European Union today. The transfer of Ukrainian sovereignty to a supranational association is no longer a matter of concern. We are talking about today's opportunity for us to sign two important documents throughout Ukraine's history. The first is the EU Association Agreement, which will provide us with a transparent long-term relationship with countries, with European States. The second is an important document, the Free Trade Zone Agreement, which will create opportunities for our economy to trade in the world's richest market with the European Union. The extent to which we use these opportunities will depend on the actions of our Government. But at the same time we had, have and will have a strategic partner – the Russian Federation, with which we must have open borders, transparent relations and equal relations. And there's no contradiction. Our Russian partners declare pro-European, European and European development vectors. So why don't we use today's time, moment and our unique geographical position together, and not be the first to take our partners to Russia and Belarus? Today the hearts of both Russians and Ukrainians and Belarusians are intertwined. But our heads have long looked to the West since Peter I. And it's always been that way. And today, when I vote for European integration laws, my heart listens to my head. But when I say that we, Ukraine, have no future without Russia, then Belarus listens to my heart. If you assume today that this referendum will take place, what are you seeking? Today, in this euphoria of European integration, to which we may, by the way, be careful and careful, we may lack votes. And then you will be responsible for us forever slamming the door into the common future of Russia and Belarus. If you cannot put Ukrainians before such a difficult choice. The Ukrainians have already made a choice and made it without you. And if you have nothing to do with it, today China has set a strategic goal -- a set of 3 million hectares of Ukrainian black. And given China's agrarian technologies in agriculture, it will use mineral fertilizers that will infect our soil and infect groundwater. Have a referendum on China's ban on buying Ukrainian land. In Europe, 400 million, run with economic problems, but the population is full. And in China, a billion hungry communists. They have the same color as you. That's what you do. And today, we have found that there are political parties in the country, such as the Fatherland, which protect the interests of Western States. And the leaders of the Western countries are so persevering, convincingly insisting that Timoshenko, the leader of the Party of Fathers, should be released. On the other hand, there are political parties that are pro-Russian and promote interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u16	The Party of the Regions has always implemented and will implement the pro-Ukrainian policy. We are a party of the Ukrainian people, and we will remain faithful to both our beliefs and our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u17	Have you calmed down? I'll give you my word. Mr. Merchant, I can hear you, I can see you. In a minute, I'm going to put on "Freedom" and a faction of Communists. And that's not gonna be a replica anymore, because there's a lot of laws, okay? Yes, I'm asking the Freedom faction. Michalchisin, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! On behalf of all the Libyans, all the fans of Ukrainian football, all the normal citizens of our country, I want to assure you that what we just said from this rostrum is cynical lies, provocations and another episode of information war against the Ukrainian people. In Lviv, where the spirit of freedom prevails, we will never accept the fact that the flags of our heroes will be banned from anyone’s authority. We have in Lviv a general of fanatic rostrums and simple Ukrainian boys defending the interests of the state when those present in this room are cynically and brutally betraying them. And the fact that Ukrainian red-and-black symbolism of liberation movement, portraits of Stephen Bandera and Roman Shuhevich are now appearing at every stadium in Ukraine, at every fanatic stand from Lviv to Lugansk, just means that we are born a nation and become the only full nation. And thanks to such a cowardly position, by crawling in front of foreigners, by fear of recognizing their heroes, whatever they may be in difficult historical circumstances. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u19	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, please, Peter Simonenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u20	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I want to remind everyone that today the whole world recognizes that China, where the Communists have ensured the implementation of the lost positions and have brought China second place in the world as a superstate. By the way, Europe is going and it's taking loans in China. By the way, Ukraine also took loans, and 3 billion, which, let's say, they don't know how to stretch and where to steal, they also took China. China wears and takes Ukraine today because they're so smart here, let's say, in 22 years that they've forgotten what it is, it's manufacturing. And China is only tied up to sell cheaply and here, let's say, their pockets are loaded. And so does what has to do with the question of the referendum. Europe, the whole of Europe, moved towards unification through referendums, is the will of Ukrainian citizens. So we, the honourable voters, are trying to deprive you of your right to choose and choose. Today, I've already told you how a bull on a rope pulls to satisfy its interests. Why are they pulling? Because they are not protecting Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't insult each other, don't insult the faction. There will be no more replicas today. Many laws, we need to work, not waste time, insulting one another. I want to go to the nicest place. The MPs have raised that we have a festival today as a lawyer, so let us give all the lawyers of Ukraine a wish for happiness, health, living conditions, well-being, success in the noble cause of our lawyers, the establishment of the idea of the rule of law, justice, humanity and good. With a holiday, all the lawyers of Ukraine! The Supreme Council would like to congratulate you in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you some information. There are no national deputies in the session today. The reasons are different. Shipment. National MP Greenewecki, no? None. National Deputy Fabricant? Shipment. National MP Geller? Shipment. Zarubinsky’s People’s Deputy? Shipment. National deputy Shufrich? Shipment. People's MP Raupov? Shipment. People's MP Lunchenko? Shipment. She was, well, I see what she is. Irina Heratchenko is. Soroka's National MP? Shipment. People's deputy Stoyan? Shipment. People's MP Ljovczyn? Shipment. People's deputies are in the hospital. Carpuntz? None. National member of the Stac. You don't? None. People's MP, Palamarczuk. None. Balog’s national deputy. None. I gave information about national MPs who are not available today for various reasons at the session. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, you have today, let's move on to their consideration. We were looking at the Conciliation Council of Deputies factions, and we were discussing a draft agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council, which was designed to meet the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council on committee proposals. In line with part one of the first article 21, part one of article 22 of the Rules, I have placed in the order of the day of the third session for approval by the Supreme Council. I want to point out and point out that at a meeting with the leaders of the MP factions that took place after the Conciliation Council. Deputy Schweik, listen, and then when you get the information, you'll raise your hand. Okay? We have agreed to establish the day’s order in general today and, without discussion, have already been discussed three times. The draft agenda was distributed to you on September 17, 2013. As you can see, the agenda is made up of bills fully prepared to be considered in plenary sessions. This is chapter one. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? These are the bills that the committees are tasked with preparing and developing for consideration at this session. This is chapter two. I point out to the National Deputies that the draft agenda for the day-to-day session does not take into account proposals for bills that committees and factions propose not to include in the agenda. All your proposals for further inclusion in the approval of the agenda for the daily session of the emergency bills will be considered in plenary sessions in accordance with the requirements of Article 23 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure. Understand? Let us move on to making decisions. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a vote to be voted on as a basis and as a whole the draft Decree (Registration No. 3246) on the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. People's deputies, please vote. Please. [[10:49:34]] For 211 Against – 1, held – 49, did not vote – 147. The decision is not taken. And for what it's worth, for the third week, we've been looking at a question that's been adopted every time for 22 years. What is it? What is it, I ask you? There won't be any more! I'm not putting it to the vote anymore. If you want to work, let's work. There are politicians here to establish the order of the day session, to approve all the bills, and the Supreme Council cannot. I'm asking you to sign in one minute from the factions. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u22	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u23	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski of the Trinity.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troustina, who paid 67 percent for Julia Timoshenko in the presidential election Dear colleagues. It seems to me, and Vladimir Vasilovich, your honor, seems to me that there was just a breakdown, not everyone understood, not very clearly explained. I would like to emphasize once again, colleagues, that it is a matter of agreeing that everyone will be included in the agenda without exception in the bills proposed by the people's deputies. That is, our right to legislative initiative is preserved by 100 percent. Because of this, Vladimir Vasilovich, this is exactly the option, this is a fundamental question, we're validating the agenda for the entire session. It takes all the wishes into account, let's vote in kind for it. And then we'll discuss and vote for every bill. Still, it is understandable. Let's go back, this is the option where we really have to go back and vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone understands. I made a suggestion: First and second sections be approved. As for the extra ones we had, there's no agreement on the faction. And for that, we voted for two weeks when I put it to the vote. So I made it clear to you. That's why I'm asking you, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Rosenko. Please, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u26	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Vladimir Vasilovich, I think there's a logic to the proposal you said, but if you said one thing clearly. The point is that the second chapter, which is also very important, which the committee is tasked with reviewing all of the bills, we have a state at the end of August of the bills that have been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we were to now normally include in the second chapter that the committees are tasked with reviewing, all the bills that were introduced by October 8th, I think this principle would have brought together 400 people's deputies here. Let's focus on that. There is the first chapter, which is ironically, which has already been decided by the committees, and in the second chapter we include all the bill states for today. And we're all going to vote friendlyly for it. That's a normal offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u27	I ask and appeal to the faction leaders: do the arrangements that we have considered together. Because what Rosenko says in addition is that there are some laws that will not vote "Freedom", other laws that will not vote Communists, the third will not vote on other factions. And that's why we didn't confirm it. Therefore, these questions will be voted on during the week’s consideration. When we're looking at the weekly agenda. I'm asking the faction leaders to tell you in your factions, let's confirm the order of the day of the third session. I beg you, Party of Regions, Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u28	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, on the one hand, say that we have to work around the clock because we don't get to adopt laws, and on the other hand, we don't vote. I want to remind everyone that everything is completely agreed upon, and if there are any problems or issues that need to be considered, there is a procedure and there is practice when we come back during the session and include a bill to discuss when it is ready to be considered. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions refers to everyone: to return to the vote and to establish the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u29	I beg of you, the "Freedom" union. Who? National deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u30	Mr. Head, my fellow MPs! Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. That's the point of the question that we're discussing right now. According to article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure, proposals for the draft agenda are generalized by the Supreme Council's Office for the submission of committees, temporary commissions of inquiry and temporary special committees on the inclusion of questions in a particular chapter. Society, let's stop using the phrase, "We've agreed on this before." I can argue that the Committee on Rules of Procedure, whose deputy head I work for, has not met to form agenda issues. Let us ask the heads of other committees whether there have been meetings at which the committees have proposed to include some questions in the first chapter or another. I call upon the Chief of the Supreme Council and all factions to open the Rules and work exclusively on them. This is the guarantee of our normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u31	Still, did they all perform? Ah, the Communist faction. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u32	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues, why isn't the Company faction voting? Because it's in the apps. In addition to the initiative of certain committees, proposals have been made for the removal of projects prepared by the Company's faction for review in the Supreme Council. And it's these projects that touch on the very basic principles of government regulation, governance, the ability to have stable sources of government budget fulfillment, and so on. Among these draft laws, it's like "Returning the property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the state." This is a key issue today for the protection of national interests. And here's the initiative of some committee members to rule out and get out in addition so that the issue is not discussed at all. As far as innovation is concerned, in support of scientific production in Ukraine, all these draft laws are deleted and not considered. I'm sure that's unacceptable. That's why the Company's faction doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u33	Thank you. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? May I have your attention, please? I put it to a vote: for the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decree, which includes all the issues that are registered in the Supreme Council today, for inclusion in the agenda of the third session. Is that clear now? I'll bet you a vote. I ask all the questions that are now in the Supreme Council to be included in the order of the day's third session. Please vote. [[10:59:22]] For-191 Against 0. We're holding on to a 16-year-old. They didn't vote - 177. The decision is not taken. The factions. It's the factions. I'm telling you again that the third week we don't vote because there are plugins. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've cleared the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cleared the question! I've already offered you all the options, but you don't accept. Then I'll make a second offer. As the draft agenda for the day - to - day third session is not approved, I propose to approve and work on the weekly schedule of plenary meetings for October 8 - 11. The weekly schedule is given to you. So, as you wish to work, I ask the National Deputies to support this proposal and vote. Please vote. [[11:01:03]] For 338 Against – 1, held – 5, not voted – 68. Decision taken. The factions. So I'm not going to ask the first question anymore, and every week we're going to confirm the order of the day. Thank you. We're working on it. Dear National Deputies, the draft Decree (No. 3275) on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school institutions is being considered. How will we consider this question? [[B in m in s a l in]] How about a full one? I bet. Who's behind the abbreviated procedure? [[11:02:34]] For 186 Against 67, held-15, did not vote-142. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich. Please, Lilia Mikhailovna, you have two minutes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 1315 of 14 September 2006, the annual award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was established for teachers of general education, vocational training, preschool and extra-school institutions. This annual bonus has been approved. And this award has already been awarded four times. In all, the Supreme Council has awarded 116 prizes. An average of 30 prizes are awarded each year. The amount of the bonus is 20,000 dollars at the moment. In accordance with the terms of the annual prize, we have proposed to the district councils of deputies, the Kiev and Sevastopol City Councils to conduct a procedure for the nomination and approval of candidates for this annual prize. That is, district councils are the subject of nominations. The Science and Education Committee received the submission of all district councils, Sevastopol and Kyiv City Councils, which fully correspond to this annual award. No documents were provided from the Ternopil and Zakarpathian regions in view of the fact that there was no council meeting there. The 2013 Supreme Council cocory provides for the financial year for the payment of the prize’s monetary share. This award is also awarded a diploma and an honorary mark. The Committee on Science and Education considered the candidates that we had submitted from the district councils. And we think there's actually been a thought-out of the criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u36	by putting out those who are candidates for the award. The committee requests support for the full list of candidates for the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u37	Are there people willing to discuss this issue? None. I can't see. Besides Freedom, are there people who want to talk about it? Is it? Please register with factions, if they're desirable. Yes, please, the Party of Regions, the People's Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, after we've celebrated the celebration of the education staff, it would be appropriate to support this draft decision. Moreover, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has consistently taken such measures to encourage our educational staff. A party of regions will be in favour and we propose a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u39	Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u41	Please, Alexander Sitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, first the line. And that's an absolute respect for you, but the fact that you didn't give me the opportunity to finish my speech in the previous speech, and you gave the members of the Party of Regions, that means that you're probably taking this chair as the deputy head of the Party of Regions, not as the speaker. To go on with what I've already said. Could the speaker of any European Parliament do so? Obviously not. So you're saying European, and you're doing Asian. As to the essence of the question. It is clear that the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this determination. On the occasion of the faction, I welcome all Ukrainian scholars with the International Teacher's Day and with the Day of Education! Welcome to all those who receive this award. Let this be a small pill for the best representatives of the education community under the low social status of today's teacher, under the conditions of underfunding schools, under the conditions of total infamous optimism. It's about the fact that they didn't make their offer from the Ternopil district council. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Ternopil District Council is blocked in its actions today because the territorial electoral commission, in which most have and are leading it, is inactive. A party of regions, a party of Communists and a party of Lithuanians who have been refusing to introduce 19 district council deputies instead of those who have broken up. That's why it's on your conscience. Instead, at the committee's proposal next year for the Ternopil area, the education quota that will be awarded for this prize will be doubled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u43	Thank you. I accept the criticism of the national deputy Sicha and will draw conclusions. I beg you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u45	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u46	Rostislav Pavlenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! First, the strike faction will vote in favour of this draft ruling. Obviously, these people earned the prizes. There was a discussion on local councils. And these are worthy people to be celebrated. But in addition to such festive things, two are not very pleasant. The first one. Today we're back in the daytime with the question of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions. I very much ask all colleagues this time to support these decisions, to vote in favour. And the second. Dear colleagues, the government does not actually implement the 2013 Budget Act. The head of the Ukrainian Education and Science Association at the College of the Ministry of Education says so. That the needs of local budgets for education are more than 5 billion dollars, of which almost 3 billion dollars is a question of pay, it's a question of pay. The government has to take urgent steps to ensure that, as last year, we do not talk again in December about where to take the money to the education community. So on Friday afternoon, the government would be delighted to hear about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u47	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction, city of Kiev. First of all, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I would like to welcome all the teachers of Ukraine, the Kyiv teachers and, in particular, the teachers of my home district, where a large number of children, talented children are taught! One of the schools in my Golden Owl district of the Small Academy of Sciences has been holding for several years. This suggests that the talents of the Ukrainian people today grow from children. That's why we're definitely going to be supporting this award. I mean, there's a lot of work in Ukraine today with children, but unfortunately, it's not always done by the Ukrainian authorities. More in this regard is the Soros Foundation and other overseas funds that these heads join European and world universities, and they no longer return to Ukraine. So I'd like to ask all the deputies today to think about it, to encourage their personal capabilities and various other ways any talent, any light head in Ukraine, because that's our future. And it was Ukraine that always demonstrated extraordinary intellectual powers. From here we went to the world, unfortunately, and created the best helicopters in America, Igor Sikorsky, who was born in Kiev. From here I went to Russia, and today he celebrates as his King. We forget to name at least one of Kiev’s airports, the name of that person. We can be proud of the past with you today, and we will be proud of our children and our children in the future, if we support intelligence, we will support our children and teachers who are working under incredibly difficult conditions today. And in order to get some 20-cent allowance in Kiev, the local occupation authorities are throwing them on barricades to fight those who want to hold elections in Kiev. Let the teachers teach children, not ensure the political future of those who do not deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u49	The discussion is over. I'd like to inform the deputies that there is a national deputy named Geller in the Hall and a national deputy Shufric in the Hall. Please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Vote in person so that you do not vote. I am voting on the draft Decree (3275) on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:13:37]] For 345. Against-0, held-0, didn't vote 65. Decision taken. The factions. There are factions. The draft Act (No. 3320) on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a national contingent for Ukraine's participation in Operation Ocean Shield and Operation EU NAVFOR ATALANTA is under consideration. How do we view it? Please vote for the reduced procedure. [[11:14:37]] For 175 Against 74, held – 12, did not vote 148. Decision taken. We will consider the decisions. Now let's take a look at the verdict. I invite you to report to the Minister of Defense, Paul Valentinovich Lebedev. We have to respect the ministers, but they have to work. Thank you. Please, Pavel Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u50	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine in Operation "Ocean Shield" and the operation of the European Union "ATALANTA" has been developed by the Ministry in accordance with the Presidential Decree of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in Operation "Ocean Shield" since 19 September 2013. The adoption of the bill will ensure the completion of internal procedures for the participation of Ukraine's national contingent in Operation "Ocean Shield" and the operation of the European Union "ATALANTA"; compliance with Ukraine's international obligations to maintain security and combat piracy, the participation of the Armed Forces in Operation "Ocean Shield" from 24 September 2013 to 2 January 2014 and the operation of the European Union "ATALANTA" from 3 January to 5 March 2014; it corresponds to the external political interests of the State and the military aspects of their implementation. The cost of ensuring the participation of Ukraine's national contingent in operations is included in the 2013 State Budget and the 2014 Mini-Defense Budget Request. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Have a seat. For the co-report of the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, worthy colleagues! According to the draft law, our contingent is made up of the Gethman of Ukraine frigate, the Derby Headquarters, the Helicopter Squad and the Supervisory Team, which consists of only 249 people. During the time after we voted on the memo, our contingent passed the Bosphorus and Dardanelli, stopped at the Soup (Crit Island), carried out a technical inspection and refuelling, and in convoy passed the Suez Canal and entered the Djibouti Group base at 9 o'clock today. According to the plan from January 12th to January 3, our contingent is operating within the framework of Operation Ocean Shield. It has a crew of seven ships from the following countries: Norway, Denmark, Finland, and the United States. Commander Amudsen is in command. Our contingent is led by Counter Admiral Tarasov, captain of the ship, captain of the 2nd rank Friday. The following operation from 3 January to 5 March "ATALANTA" without going to Ukraine. All-round security is provided by appropriate forces and structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u53	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u54	I ask you to vote for the bill and wish our sailors seven pounds apiece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Are there willing to discuss or make decisions? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, National Deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u56	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We will support this bill, because we believe that the Ukrainian Navy should acquire practices, acquire combat experience and serve to establish order and peace in all hot spots where our military personnel can demonstrate their best qualities. How many Ukrainian civilians suffer from piracy? These are hundreds and hundreds of people who fall into captivity each year. Then the state must spend a great deal of money to buy from the pirate captivity of our Ukrainian mariners from civilian vessels. Should the Ukrainian State participate in a joint fight against this evil? Of course you should. We have the forces, the tools, the teams prepared, the battleships that are now, as General Kuzmuk has informed us, have passed Bosphorus and Dardanelli and will virtually be turning back to where the pirates are operating. At the same time, we are witnesses of many and nearer to our aquatories, totally pirated actions. In the summer of this year, four peaceful, civilian Ukrainian fishermen were essentially killed by Russian bordermen. What can be said of Russian border guards after this? Pirates or something? And the fifth survivor, Ukrainian citizen Fedorovich, is essentially a hostage in Russian territory, and the Russian side is not responding in any way to all Ukrainian addresses to bring this Ukrainian back here and here to take place, including all necessary follow-up procedures. I have already addressed the Head of the Supreme Council on this matter. And I want to do it again. Vladimir Vasilovich, the Ukrainian Parliament must intervene in this situation and do everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u57	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u58	And do whatever it takes to get our Ukrainian fisherman Fedorovich back to Fatherland and to be rehabilitated so that his life, as it is now, will not be in danger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! You and I are now considering a very important document that is primarily related to the humanitarian mission of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is a mission that involves saving many lives of those in difficult situations. And on behalf of our Ukrainian nation, the President of Ukraine has proposed to participate in this international mission, which brings together the efforts of many countries, including the European Union. Today we have a chance to demonstrate unity and political will so that the values that are being proclaimed, in practice, all of us in this room, namely, the values of humanity, the values of supporting people in difficult conditions, when there is a threat to their lives, and the provision of free navigation in the world, so that they can be realized, including through the humanitarian mission of Ukrainian military personnel and sailors. Dear colleagues, I ask you as a representative of the President to support the President's proposal and to endorse this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u61	Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Valentina Nastavajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u63	Please, Valentin Nastavajchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, your honor! Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. For us, the question is whether to protect Ukrainian citizens abroad, Ukrainian sailors, Ukrainian merchant ships or not to protect them. For us, most importantly, the position of the Supreme Council to vote in favour of ensuring that European standards of military operations with the maintenance of peace in all the seas where Ukrainian sailors and Ukrainian merchants are provided. They were provided by the Supreme Council and the Bills, and, indeed, by the Ukrainian Supreme Council's sincere attitude towards the Ukrainian military. Mr. Secretary, a sincere attitude is worthy of payment, and you should know that. A sincere attitude is also the status of the participant in the fighting, which every Ukrainian sailor is to receive as a result of each such operation. Sincere attitudes include raising social standards and the military itself, which are involved in important international European operations, such as the fight against piracy and family members, as well as providing housing for those Ukrainian soldiers who are taking the lead in arms-related military-marine operations. And another faction, Vitalia Klitka, would like to point out that all social initiatives relating to the provision of Ukrainian military personnel, simple officers, flags, sergeants who regularly serve in the Ukrainian army should also be given priority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just as we demand and support a profile committee, consider it and deprive all officials or national deputies of previous appeals, or their assistants of the status of a member of the hostilities that they have declared unlawfully. This is corruption, and whoever else has such titles or your helpers, please return, do not be ashamed. Such a status as a participant in hostilities is reserved only for those who are entitled to receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u65	Thank you. People's Deputy Orotyuk, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u66	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The strengthening of the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is one of the priorities of the All-U.S. Freedom Association, so our faction will support the decision to send Ukrainian sailors to participate in Operation Ocean Shield. Moreover, Ukrainian sailors have repeatedly been the victims of pirates, especially since 2008, more than 200 Ukrainians have been captured by pirates, two of whom have died. While 1 in 10 merchants in the world today is Ukrainian, the challenge and responsibility of the Ukrainian State is to protect their citizens. But unfortunately, even in this noble cause, it is not without the sorrowful omissions and open non-professionalism of today's woe-control. The history of Ukraine joining the Ocean Shield has been one of the first proofs of the complete professional incompetence of the Professional Command. I recall that the agreement to join the operation was signed in February this year, and since then, the government and the President have not had time to prepare the necessary documents to complete the procedure for sending Ukrainian military personnel to military service. It's been more than six months, and only when the Sagydac frigate was about to go into the sea did they mention that there are no legal grounds for its march, so we are urgently forced to ratify the treaty at the last plenary meeting. And today, by the age of frigate, which has been at sea for two weeks now, we are considering a presidential decision, with the Supreme Council and the bill not a decision by the President of Ukraine in the form of a corresponding decree, but only his draft. All of this speaks of being openly ignored by the President and by the Government of his duties and causes him to wonder whether Ukrainian military personnel are properly prepared and equipped to march and carry out military tasks, whether Ukrainian sailors and specialists will remain alone with their problems in the Indian Ocean, eventually how they will be financed when the corresponding changes to the State Budget are made. Finally, I think it is necessary to draw attention to another issue related to piracy, since recently Ukrainian sailors have been the victims of attacks not near the east but near the west coast of Africa. In particular, at the end of the past year and this year, there were several attacks by Nigerian pirates on ships.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u67	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u68	the issue before the international community of enhancing security and in this region. The faction will support the direction of the Sagedic frigate before the operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u69	And "Glory to Ukraine!" Where? Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking Geller very much. Take your seats, we'll vote. I am voting on draft law (3320) approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to send a national contingent to Ukraine to take part in Operation Ocean Shield and Operation EU NAVFOR ATALANTA for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:17]] For 334, Against 30, held – 1, not voted – 43. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree (No. 2260a) on hearing a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities in the maintenance of international peace and security in 2012 is under consideration. How do we consider this question? [[B in m in s a l in]] Short-term? Please vote. [[11:31:05]] For 174, Against 73, held – 12, not voted – 149. Decision taken. The factions. I invite Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania to report on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u70	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace and security operations, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is obliged to report annually on the involvement of military personnel and personnel from Ukraine in various operations outside Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine issued such a report as early as March 2012. In accordance with the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees Act, we are to hear this report with you in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the failure in the previous session, the second committee asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make the appropriate decision. Because there are many questions that need consideration at the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the fact that over the past 10 years alone, 18,000 military personnel have been involved in appropriate peacekeeping operations. They have great experience. At the same time, 51 people were killed, of whom only 14 are believed to have died in the course of the battle. Our military personnel are experiencing tremendous experience. I have to tell you that the pilots, the pilots of the month are flying for as many hours as it takes for us to do this for 10 years! Hence, there are questions that require legislative regulation and practical solutions, including the use of our staff’s experience. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the adoption of the relevant decision. And maybe Volodymyr Vasilovich, look at it over the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Do you want to talk about it? Is it? Please sign up for the factions. Please, the Freedom Union, the Martínk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u73	I'd like the People's Deputy to hand over the Orphan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u74	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. The renewed Order of the Supreme Council proposes to hear a report by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine’s peacekeeping activities in 2012. On the basis of which the National Security and Defence Committee, along with other committees, will be able to draw conclusions and proposals. The decision must be supported. This is a standard procedure that was to take place in June-July this year, as it relates to monitoring state activities during 2012. This report is particularly important because it refers to the image of Ukraine in the international arena as a constructive player that promotes peace and security. Monitoring of the activities of military contingents involved in peacekeeping and security operations is also needed. This is one of the most important elements of support for the armed forces. At the same time, I wanted to point out that in addition to listening to this report, it would be worth listening to a report from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Defence Minister about how parliamentary hearings were made last year. Because last year, parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of military security and the state of reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and no recommendation of these parliamentary hearings has been made! We should also listen to representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers about the implementation of Ukrainian Army modernization programmes. Because there have been repeated programs, none of which have been executed. Most are not done by 90 percent! That is why we should see a thorough, broad report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the problems of the state of military security in Ukraine. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support the draft Ordinance on the Hearing of the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine's participation in activities in the maintenance of international peace and security in 2012. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u75	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that Ukraine is the first state in the post-Radians space to take part in peacekeeping operations for the first time in July 1992. We started with a clean slate. We had no experience. Because the Soviet Union did not take part in such operations. The geography of our participation speaks for itself. We're invited as equals as professionals. But at these hearings, it would be appropriate to listen, and what is the fate of our peacemakers after they return home? Just one example. A beautiful, beautiful woman, an elderly woman, a sick woman, Mrs. Blazewska in Žitomir. With her son, a company commander who was in detention, he died in Iraq in 2005. And she's still out of her apartment. And I'm going to the administration of Zitomirsk, to all the caregivers, to help this woman. She's given this state, she's given her precious son to the world. And I'm asking you to support the determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u77	Faction Impact, People's Deputy Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u78	Faction UDA, People's Deputy Kaplin, Poltawa, 144th constituency. To my profound conviction, statements about such things need to start in other words and start talking about other things. It should be noted that from 1992 to this day we lost 51 Ukrainians, 51 sons, 51 fathers in these missions. And what are these losses for? We talked a lot about the geography of our presence in these missions abroad. But at the same time, we didn't talk about this 51 death being a simple, banal service to diplomatic advances by any Ukrainian president. And the Ukrainian state has never received any diplomatic gain. Our national economic interests were not protected. Our political interests were not protected. Our participation in these missions has never raised the national authority and image of our country abroad. That's why I would require the Secretary of Defense to present to us at last a programme to realize our economic interests in carrying out these missions. Because there's a very unhealthy situation where we're taking part in a mission in Iraq, and almost no Ukrainian enterprise has ever been, its economic interests have not been protected or represented. When I ask the Deputy Defence Minister about how the Ukrainian economy is represented in Africa? So he's saying there's a significant increase in traffic with one country or another. And when I ask, what's the structure of this shipment? So he says it's 50 percent metal, and 50 percent minibar. And in common language.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u79	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u80	That 51 Ukrainian deaths were paid for the sake of just two oligarchs who control metal and control several companies that produce chemical minions. So you need a program, you need real steps. And we should not forget that the biggest hot spots in Ukraine today are in the middle of the country. So you all know that yesterday my assistant's car was paid, which was a co-organizer of the rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u81	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we believe that the decision is valid and very important. In view of a few problems that we would have to discuss at a national level. The first problem is how much the Ukrainian state guarantees the safety of our peacekeepers who are actually in the zone of combat. The second problem is social protection, especially in families when tragic events occur. At the same time, we need to consider this because my friends and I are always very sensitive to this subject. Because we understand the difference between those involved in the fighting in Afghanistan and those who go by their own accord and receive proper funding. Obviously, there is a balance and a compromise between the protection of the state when it comes to different categories of participants in hostilities. Third problem. We have never heard from the Ministry of Defense or the government — whether we have been paid by the United Nations for the use of our contingents in the war zone. I didn't see any statistics about at least getting a dollar or a bracelet back. Obviously, such information should be provided. And we need to understand that if we are involved in such operations, the State’s participation is compensated. And there is another problem with the previous question. I think it's very important when we're talking about teaching in Ukraine. I remember the time when our sailors were here, the way our sailors in Odessa were blocked in teaching together, the way the balls were attached here and so on, saying Russia would protect us. Our fishermen were already protected by Russia when they crossed the border. Therefore, it is obvious that we need to draw conclusions and maximize our participation in peacekeeping training, where our sailors or the military are taking up high school.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u83	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, here comes the vote, please prepare. I am voting on the draft Decree (No.2260) on the hearing of the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities in the maintenance of international peace and security in 2012 for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:43:48]] For 342 Against-0, held-0, not a vote-71. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Act (2689) on the amendment of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families (for persons who provide social services) (second reading) is under consideration. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Ruslan Bogdanovich Zelik to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, your point is to consider a comparative table in the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families (Registration No. 2689), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance to low-income families. That is, to include in the number of persons entitled to state social assistance for the low-income families of those working families who provide social services. Two proposals were made by Jaroslav Suhogo and Andrija Pishno. The amendment by Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhhogo proposes to limit the right to low-security assistance for people who are provided with social services on a paid basis. This is a service related to the care of persons with disabilities of the second and third groups or of senior citizens in need of foreign care. At the same time, such restrictions on the right to assistance would deprive citizens of their right to State support, whose income is not even higher than the minimum of their living wage. If, for example, it is essential to pay for the services of a listed citizen under a contract for the care of a disabled person, such a citizen will not be able to obtain assistance as a low-income person, since his income level will not allow him to claim State social assistance for under-insurance. The second amendment of the People’s Deputy, Andrew the Great. It is proposed that social assistance be provided to these individuals who are caring for the disabled of the second and third groups if such social services are provided under the Ukrainian Social Services Act. At the same time, social services for the care of persons with disabilities and outdated active legislation are not foreseen. Thus, social assistance for the care of the disabled and the elderly can be defined as social services only in accordance with the Ukrainian Social Services Act. Therefore, there is no need to specify the law under which these social services are provided. In view of the above, the committee requests that the amendment be rejected by the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrew the Great. So in summary, I would like to point out that the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council to agree with the text of the comparative table in the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families, issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to adopt it as a second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u85	Thank you. There are two amendments to this law. Amendment number one of Suhi's people's deputies. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Oh, you insist. I'm asking you to turn on the Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm recording my amendment and using the opportunity given one minute, I'm addressing the session hall, supporting this one, it's a government bill, but the bill that people who provide social services really need can be called sacred. They are people who sacrifice their working hours, their youth, their health to make life easier for other citizens. So I'm recording my amendment and calling on the House to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Amendment number two, People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. None. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. An important law, honourable national deputies, please take your seats. I am voting on draft Act No. 2689 amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families (for persons who provide social services) for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:48:58]] For 343 Against - 0 held - 0, 67 did not vote. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. A draft Act (number 2436a) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the reduction in the number of documents of a permissive nature. As we consider, this is the first reading? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. [[11:49:55]] For-170. Against 73, held – 10, did not vote – 153. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanović Miroshnicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the number of documents of a permissive nature (registration number 2436a). The President of Ukraine has consistently pursued policies aimed at eliminating excessive government regulation of economic activity and removing barriers to business management. At first, the Head of State signed the Law on Restrictions on the Powers of Control Authorities, and he is now introducing a bill to Parliament to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature. This bill is proposed: firstly, to cancel much of the permits, including waste management and agrochemicals, grain storage, water use, and the introduction of radio-electronic means of general use. Secondly, it is envisaged to limit the scope of individual permits and increase their duration. It is proposed to establish the possibility of introducing an economic activity on the basis of a declaration without obtaining a document of a permissive nature. Such changes relate to veterinary permits, emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere. Thirdly, it is envisaged to establish a procedure by which the permissive authority, which forms a document of a permissive nature, takes all necessary steps to obtain the consent, conclusions and other documents necessary for its issuance, without involving the host subject. Thus, entrepreneurs will be relieved of the obligation to spend time in harmony with document officials in conducting their activities. In addition, only the court will decide to annul the document of a permissive nature on the basis of the unreliable data provided to obtain the permit. Dear colleagues, please support this bill, which is intended for further action.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u90	These are aimed at further deregulation of entrepreneurial activities, simplification of business conditions and acceptance of them as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u91	Thank you, sit down. For my report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy, Vladislav Valentinović Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council, there is a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature. The purpose of the bill is to improve business conditions by removing unnecessary restrictions on the introduction of economic activity. The adoption of the bill will help improve business conditions in Ukraine. The draft bill is being considered in the context of the implementation of the 2012 National Plan of Action for the implementation of the 2012-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State", approved by the Presidential Decree of 12 March 2012 (No 187), and a bill on reducing the number of documents of a permissive nature has been drafted. The Committee on Enterprise, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the bill as a basis for adoption. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u93	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Please, Freedom Union, national deputy Blavajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u94	Please hand over Kirilenko, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u95	Please hand over the deputy to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u96	The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union, Paul Kirilenko, Odščina. The honourable national MPs, familiar with the changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Simplification of the Liberation System, may conclude that the President was guided by the phrase “after us a deluge.” You know, total cancellation of permits that significantly undermine the environmental safety of the environment, the safety of citizens' lives, and 37 changes to Ukraine's legislative acts. In particular, what are we talking about? It is suggested that the permits for industrial testing of mining equipment and materials that are used in mines and mines that do not seem to be associated with mining are revoked. But in reality, this poses a very serious threat to the environment. Other examples: The proposal is to cancel waste disposal, pollution permits, and the approval of the legal dumping of pollutants into aquatic objects, and a series of other wastes. You know, today, in the 21st century, there is a struggle for a clean environment and for a society to live in a normal environment. To an ecologically protected state. This bill will allow the oligarchic groups to fully spit on the safety of citizens in terms of environmental protection. We propose not to vote and vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Very short. In understanding and supporting the President's positive trend towards simplification of procedures, I would like to draw the attention of the entire President's Administration and its team. This is not the way to mislead your President and draft laws, in violation of the Act on Fundamental Principles of National Regulatory Policy. If they did their job under this law and explained it properly, no one would allow the free use of pesticides to go free, other permits would be poured, it would simply simplify where two or three permits were issued. What do we promise you, realizing that there is a threat in some directions? As head of the committee, I promise that before the second reading, a wide public professional discussion will be held on each side, and no proposal from this law, which will be aimed at exacerbating the country's environmental situation, will be put on second reading, understanding that we must not simplify business where the country's environment should be protected. And so once again, by passing such bills, the government and the President's Administration, carry out a bill on the basic principles of national regulatory policy, not violate, as Mr. Azarov does. And so the "Paternity" faction on the first reading will support this bill, but for the second reading, each of the proposed changes will be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u99	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u101	Please, Oxana. Sold to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! This bill is really quite complicated not only by quantity. But it also makes sense. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft position is the beginning of the work that we have proposed, the members of the strike faction, in the two bills that are already in Parliament before, and which we have already, one of them, considered in the hall. This is Bill No. 2149: on the abolition of the evidence and the abolition of corruption in administrative services. In that project that we're looking at right now, there's a small part of the idea that's set out in Project 2149. And Bill 3256, which provides for the changes proposed by the President today, not in 37 laws, but in 87 laws. So we think that this bill should support the first-reading hall as just the first step towards complete business deregulation. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to Mr. Miroshnick and Mr. Lukyanov’s first concern that new corrupt rules have been laid down in this bill. And these corrupt standards aren't just corrupting, they're taking a deep look at the environment. In order to take note of the second reading, and we will necessarily make the necessary adjustments from the Impact faction to two positions: the position regarding the use of land under forest planting, under forest management; and the second, the bill provides for the introduction of permits, not for the disposal of waste, as it is today, but for work related to waste. Thus, the situation may be restored when the congregation and the reporting on the location of the waste will be submitted by all subjects of entrepreneurial activity. But it's a great project in general, and we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u103	Thank you. Vladislav, I invited you to teach the Rules, we'll teach the Rules together. Sit down! The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Suhi. I'm asking you, well, it shouldn't be!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to support the point of view expressed by the Ukrainian national MPs from Fatherland and Strike. Both Salesman and colleague Kugel have faithfully highlighted the main idea and main thrust of this anti-corruption bill. Agree, neither the creation of any offices with beautiful names nor the creation of any State committees to combat corruption, namely the elimination of the causes or premeditations that accompany and lead to corruption. The foundation of corruption today was, and remains, the basis for the invasion of entrepreneurship, the unjustified permits (let's not give permission), the never-ending government inspections that were destroyed long ago, such as in Georgia, and nothing terrible happened there. So the President is offering us and I think we're going to support this bill in the first reading, the right idea. You see, according to the World Bank in Ukraine, one company spends an average of 500 person-hours for different kinds of reports, 300 in Belarus, 100 in Russia. According to the Federation of Employers, there are about 700 monitoring bodies in Ukraine today that check whether or not permission was granted and how you behave. Last year, various authorities screened businessmen two million times. What are the consequences? Effectiveness. 900 million dollars a year has been budgeted for fines. But they did write down four billion, and the rest was written for nothing, and it wasn't justified. 155 thousand industrial enterprises have stopped their work through controlling authorities. According to the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, in the past year, it's 30 billion dollars. 30 billion dollars minus. That's why we need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u105	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a minute: the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the national deputy of Balandin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine may support the proposed bill in the first reading, subject to deletion at the second reading stage, which provides for: First. Exclusion of the Ukrainian Land Code by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the sale of land owned by territorial communities to foreign states and foreign legal persons. The other one. Exclusion from the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, permission to import unregistered genetically modified organisms for scientific research purposes in closed and open systems, and for the purpose of carrying out their national testing. Third. The Communist faction also opposes the law’s restrictions on the rights of local self - government authorities in the areas of forest and water control and security, agreement on locations and disposal of harmful substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u107	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Take your seats and we'll vote on the president's law. I am voting on the draft Act (2436a) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies please vote. [[12:05:27]] For 295 Against-39, held-4, not voted-71. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes, we will resume the session. Let us consider the question of the election and the release of judges. And now it's break to 12 o'clock 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u108	Invite judges and not vote. We have to vote. Yeah, then let's start a little bit different. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consider one law and then consider it by judges. The draft Act (No. 3150) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration. Do we have a reporter? Geller Eugeny Borisovich. No, it's not. Oh, that's too bad. Mikhail Vasilovich, invite Geller. Where's Geller? Now we're going to take a look at the question, but we're going to put it to the vote and that's when all the deputies are going to come together. A draft Act (3,150) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (increasing the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission). How will we view it? Short-term procedure? Well, let's all stick together to the shorter procedure, because there's nothing to discuss here. I would like to ask the national deputies to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[12:35:18]] For 111 It was a signal vote. Now, I see that when I said vote, the MPs started to fit. Let's keep him informed, and then we'll vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Yes or no? Not like that. Well, I'm asking the people's deputies a very important question. There's nothing to discuss here, because we have to allocate the finances to the CLTC. Let's take a look at this. Please vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:36:43]] For-136 What are the proposals for deputies? Alexander Sergiyovich, what is your offer? I'm asking you to invite the deputies. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u109	Vladimir Vasilovich, these are the people who said let's work around the clock for three weeks in a row. We've shown today how they want to work. If we spend time on this problem, it is futile for us to do so. I have an offer to return, to vote and to hold this issue on a reduced basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen. Let's go to the woman, National Deputy Alexander Kugel, without a turn, lady. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, it is very unpleasant when such respectable people as Mr. Ephraim engage in fornication in the hall and say that there is no opposition. It was a completely empty territory of the Party of Regions. Get the boys out of the hall! And you're being addressed. We don't generally vote in favour of the short procedure under this bill, because we have substantial remarks and we want to say them. Because there are manipulations with some amounts to keep the cameras voting, and so we don't, in principle, vote on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u112	Well, in short, you can say from the opposition. I beg you, let's listen to the national MP Lazko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u113	Oleg Lishko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the question is quite obvious: We need to allocate funds to ensure that elections are held in the troubled districts of December 15. I suggest, let's look at this issue in a simplified procedure, we allocate the funds, because since October 15, the election campaign has to officially start. And if we want to have in Parliament, not forged candidates like Markov and... but normal candidates, it means that there should be fair elections. And besides, today in the daytime, a lot of important issues, a very busy schedule. I'm talking to my colleagues: here's the question of costing medicine for the villagers, here's the social issues, and so on. Why did the people of Parliament choose us to have a circus here or to protect their interests? I'm talking to the regionals. Nothing on the buffets to drink! Go to the hall and work! You will not get anything to eat or drink! The break ended, and the people would have been forced out of work long ago if they had worked as you did. And you, Darmoids, are just walking from morning to night!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u114	Well, I'll give you my word. Well, why do you? Now there's gonna be a line. Well, you started off so well, and you ended so badly. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u115	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka, 144 constituency, Poltava. I would like to first explain why our political power always, I emphasize, always votes in favour of the full procedure. The Supreme Council does not address less and more important issues. Each issue that is addressed in the Supreme Council concerns the fate of millions of people, so each issue needs to be given due attention. But now for the first time in the history of our presence in the Council, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure to move faster today to addressing the acute issues of social character, social protection of pensioners and so on. But today we are faced with the fact that the Party of Regions, in the person of the head of its faction, is engaged in immoral manipulations because it tells us that we don't want to work. You have an empty part of the hall where you are, your deputies are really in the buffets, they're still undernourished and undernourished. And we're ready to work. Let's go to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Replica is one minute, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, let's not blame each other. We are all aware that the elections in the five troubled districts should be held at the proper time. If we do not vote in favour of this bill today, the Central Election Commission will not be able to start the entire election process in five troubled districts. And let's go more to unity, not to blame each other. I propose to go back to the shrink voting procedure and quickly go through this question, because there are a lot of important bills ahead of us that Ukraine is expecting from us, not talking. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Can we put the vote back to the vote on this issue? I would like to vote on the return to the vote in favour of the summary procedure for the consideration of the draft Law (3150). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:36]] For 181 Against - 8, held - 4, did not vote 194. Decision taken. The factions. The party of regions is 149, Fatherland. What's "Fatherland"? More than anyone? Like they said, we should hold an election. Zero. "Vitalia Klitka" is 22, "Freedom" is also a zero, the Company is 0, non-fractional, 10. I now put to the vote the draft Law (3,150) under a reduced procedure. Please vote. We're back. Please vote. [[12:43:31]] For-163 Against 8, held – 2, not voted – 219. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is not a violation of the Rules. We went back to the vote, and we voted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything right to go back has to, really, 226, I missed it. Thank you. Have a seat. I see you don't want to hold an election. So let's look at the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the election and release of judges is under review. So let's move on to the question of the election of judges. I invite you to report to the head of the High Qualifying Commission, Igor Leonovich Samsin. Please come to the rostrum. It's under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u119	Well, you can't, and what can I say, you don't want to vote. Okay. The draft Regulation (3363) is under consideration. Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll get the deputies together, and I'll be back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! According to article 76, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance with candidates for judicial office on an indefinite basis with article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, and organizations of all forms of property, government authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualifications Commission, judges of Ukraine in a state when they were considering recommending the appointment of a judge on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, I submit a decision to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. Your attention is given to the draft Decree (No. 3363). To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u121	May I have your attention, national deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u122	The Court of Appeal of Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u123	May I have your attention, please? Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u124	The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Haponova Andrija Vijacheslavovich, Gruwiecko Ludmila Alexandrovna, John's Alla Pilipevna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Jourba Sergey Alexanderovich, Susko Ludmila Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Levik Jaroslav Andriyovich, Malinovsk-Mikić Oksana Vasilovna; The Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Makarovec Alla Mikolayovna, Shunka Grigoriy Aleksiowiovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Cilluric Viktor Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol But this judge, Kabal Igor Ivanovich, was informed of the date and time of the plenary session, had not arrived at the plenary session. According to a report by the European City Court, which came to the address of the commission, he is in an advisory room, so the important reason is that he does not appear in plenary. And the Lviv Court of Appeal Ilsch Nadia Vasilevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u125	I'm asking you to name your last name, who didn't show up?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u126	Kabal Igor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u127	Now, a minute. Igor Ivanovich, I can't see. Yes, we don't. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u128	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u129	All of it. One? Any comments from the deputies? None. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (No. 3363) on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, with the exception of Judge Kabal Igor Ivanovich. People's deputies, please vote. Please. [[12:49:16]] For 228 Against - 1, held - 4, did not vote - 158. Decision taken. The factions. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 3363-1) is under consideration. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u130	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Melitopol District Court of Zaporez Region; The Archesian District Court of Odessa, Gusev Natalija Dmitrovna; The Bologna District Court of the Odessa region of Kodence Svetlana Volodymyrna; The Suvorov District Court of Herson Kuzmin Oksana Ivanovna; The District Court of Kiev, Novik Valentina Petrovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev, Doub Oksana Anatolyevna, Makarenko Irina Alexandrovna, Yuzkov Olga Leonidivna; Kyiv District Administrative Court Vasilko Galin Yuriovna; Herson County Administrative Court of Drebuck Oleg Ivanovich; The court-martial of Sevastopol, Efremenko, Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u131	Any comments from the National Deputies? None. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council Order (number 3363-1) on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:51:01]] For 232 Against - 1, held - 6, did not vote - 151. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 163, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klicka - 27, Freedom - 0, Company - 26, non-fractional - 14. Copy that. A draft Supreme Council Regulation (3363-2) is under consideration. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u132	Choose Rilova Victoria Viachaslavina to serve as Judge of the Kharkiv Regional Economic Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u133	Is there a note? Please, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u134	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you that during the last sessional week, we were looking at this Rylova candidate and it was ruined. After that, I had to file those letters, those papers to look at the committee, just didn't have to, because it was broken. What is happening to us? Why are these candidates like Khuhar another from Kharkiv again for this week? My army chief used to say that if the first button went wrong, everyone would be wrong. What are we doing? What are we ashamed of? Why? What, did you pick up a wagon from Kharkiv's cabbage that these judges are again on trial today? They've been broken, well, even though the month, two hold on, take it a little bit. Well, why are they taking it today? It's just a smile. I suggest you delete it. If necessary, I will submit the documents that I need, consider them, the same family, the same family, the family nest again. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u135	I'm asking the People's Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is, our colleague probably didn't get a good look at the law we passed two years ago. When a judge has not obtained enough votes, there may not be two, not three, but one hundred and fifty times, that's the requirement of the law, that's the first. The other question is that somehow our colleagues are allowing themselves to insult the judges and speak out on them, well, not entirely ethical. What is more, today all lawyers celebrate their own. It's a professional holiday, just like the judges do. So I'm going to ask you to put this candidate to a vote and we're going to move on and define ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u137	I'll be with you in a minute. Igor Leonovich, please, and I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u138	In the last plenary session, there were claims about the appointed judge about the quality of the work. We looked again at the quality of the work. For example, in 2012, she reviewed five and a half thousand cases, modified and cancelled only two percent. It's a normal judge working, it's a normal result, there's no obvious cancellation, there's no decision. Laws change, court practice doesn't stop, so there's no claim to professional activity. There was no complaint against the judge in five years, all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u139	Respectable national MPs, politics aside, that way. Today is Jurist's Day. All the lawyers are sitting. That's why I'm asking. Victoria Vyachelavina, do you have something to say? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting it to the vote. Politics aside. I'll put it to a vote, please. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! We don't have the right to insult judges, well, we don't have to do that! I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order 3363-2 on the election of the judge of the Royal Victoria of Viachaslavina on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. You listened to the leader, Samsina. Please vote. [[12:55:47]] For 201 The factions, please. Region Party - 162, Fatherland - 0, Hit by Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, Postfaction - 9. The decision is not taken. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 3363-3 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u140	Choose Kuhar Marina Dmitrovna to serve as Judge of the Kharkiv District Administrative Court on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u141	Any notes? The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u142	Well, I'm from this candidate. She's definitely in a situation like Reelov's. I want to pass the word to Avakov, he's a Kharkiv MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u143	Please, the people's deputy Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u144	Thank you very much. No politics, no figures. For example, a respected reporter said that these judges did not have a fair score. For example, in 2010, 24.86 percent of Judge Kuhar's decisions were challenged and cancelled by a higher authority. 2010-2365. There are other indicators. So I don't think we can vote with this judge for a permanent appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u147	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u148	As for the quality of the work of Judge Kuhar Marina Dimitrovna, we don't have it either. I don't know where that came from. Please come to the High Qualifying Commission, and we'll give you all the data we have. That data is not just pure figures, it's data that was examined at the High Qualifying Commission. In addition, the quality of the case and the errors in the annulment of decisions by the superior courts ruled by the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Marina Dmitrovna Kuhar, you have a minute and then the head of the Pisarenko Committee. Please. It was called some kind of number.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u150	I'm a statistician right now, that percentage is the first time I've known. I don't have that many canceled decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u151	There are no canceled decisions. Please, Pisarenko. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you. Last time we voted for the judges, one of our colleagues raised his hand and told the judge that he allegedly stole the land (from the Zitomir region, if you remember) and made the wrong decisions. Then this judge said, "Well, I don't work in this area at all. That's not my statistics." After that, the friendly hall did not support the judge, and he was denied all the further work of the judge. You know, if we swap the punitive organs themselves at this rate, then all the statements that are floating around in this room are going to look. Well, it's not very professional, so to speak. So I would now like to invite colleagues from other factions to listen very carefully to what is said. And you and I have a Higher Qualifying Commission, which. This is where the manager said about one statistic, and you and I are taking another statistic from sources that. Well, at least you should talk. That's why I'm asking you to support the judges, because the Supreme Council should not be a penal body for the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? You've already spoken. What three times should we do? I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (3363-3) on the election of Judge Kuhar Marina Dmitrovna on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:00:26]] For 209 Against - 5, held - 36, no votes - 142. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 28, non-fractional - 14. Draft Decree (No. 3261-5) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u154	I ask you to withdraw this ruling, since the judge is carrying out an unfinished inspection. And so far we're doing a background check and we're going to need some paperwork to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u155	Let's take that question off the record. Draft regulation (3261-10) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u156	Select Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna to serve as the judge of the central district court of Mikolayeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u157	Is there a note? None. Yes. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company. National MP of the Dzardanov. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u158	The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine will continue to vote against the election of a judge of Greece in advance because, during its previous work, it has grossly violated existing legislation: four times it has postponed the issue of alimony only because the defendant was a senior judge. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the same time, the issue was resolved positively. Judge Grecana is a young judge. But the danger is that it is already in grave violation of the laws and the danger of impunity for the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u159	Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u160	Let's put it this way: we're going to learn more about this judge, and then we're going to take it to the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u161	Let's take these questions off and give it a chance. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2194a-5 is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u162	I also ask that this draft Order be withdrawn in connection with the fact that, according to the head of this court, this judge is on annual leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u163	Let's take it. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (3364) is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u164	All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u165	It's about being released. All your judges? Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lawyer's day, a judge who is highly qualified as a lawyer. Then let us greet them with a festival and wish them success. [[Applause]] Let us now consider the question of the release of judges. And I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the High Council of Justice of the Widower Alexander Sergiyovich. And we're looking at the draft regulation (number 3364). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u166	Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Makarczuk Vladimir Alexanderovich from office as judge of the European City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in connection with his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u167	I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 3364) on the release of Makarczuk Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:04]] For 232 Against-0, held-6, not-156. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order (3364-1) on the dismissal of a judge is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u168	The Supreme Council's decision to release the judge. According to article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Kasminin Alexandr Volodymyrovich from office as judge of the Court of Appeal in connection with the application for discharge at his own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u169	I'm voting on the Bill of Order (3364-1) on the release of Judge Kasminin Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[13:06:07]] For 240 Against-0, held-5, didn't vote 149. Decision taken. All questions, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u170	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u171	We let the judges go. Have a good job! Yes, Your Honor, let's go with the draft Law (3150). All the deputies are here, so I'm going to put to the vote a return to the question of the draft Law (3150) under a reduced procedure. About the return. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:07:27]] For 205, versus 5, we held-6, we didn't vote 179. The decision is not taken. So report it, and we'll look into it. Please, Head of Budget Committee Eugene Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u172	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable members of the people, allow me to present the draft law that I am the author and also to express the position of the Committee on Budget Affairs. The adoption and implementation of this bill will allow the debt of the Central Electoral Commission to be settled and the re-election of the national deputies in individual one-maned constituencies, ensure the functioning of the National Electoral Register. I would like to draw your attention to the adoption by the Supreme Council on September 5 of the Law on the Re-election of People's Deputies in One-Mandatory Electoral Districts, 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223, which requires additional funds. In order to address these issues, the bill proposes to increase the budget allocations of 48.8 million dollars for the Central Electoral Commission by the general budget of the State budget. The bill's position is balanced by an increase in the same amount as the planned amount of funds counted by Nazbank. The budget committee at its meeting on September 18th considered the bill. The main scientific and expert office generally supports the legislative proposal, has made a number of observations on specific provisions of the bill. I note that the bill needs to be harmonized with the bills amending the State Budget Act 2013 if they are to be considered and adopted, and the draft legislation is to be considered. The Ministry of Finance expressed its position on supporting the bill. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend a bill under number 3150 to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the Committee's proposals for the reconciliation of budgetary indicators and.. adopted for consideration of the bill in question, as noted in the Committee's letter to the Supreme Council on the bill. The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council in drafting such a bill, should then provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and addenda of the bill. Please support the decision of the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u173	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat. Please sign up for the faction. Please sign up. Please, Party of Regions National Deputy Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u174	I'm withdrawing my candidacy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u175	Freedom Union, National MP of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u176	Please give Andrew Illenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u177	Please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u178	Andrew Illenco faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Of course, we understand that this is, according to a large number of estimates, a technical decision to pay off the Central Electoral Commission’s debts in previous elections and thus allow them to conduct the electoral process peacefully in five troubled districts. But to be honest, it's still unclear why there was a huge amount of money available on these video cameras in the districts. How did it help to fight counterfeiting? What did it do when the results of the elections were not actually established in a number of districts? And we've actually argued that we can install them, including through these videos. But no one did, and it is not clear why the money was spent. Now there are these debts, you have to cover them, you have to look for money, you have to plug in the National Bank, which is still printing this money in a way that starts with inflation. But society really needs to understand something else. We need to understand that the problem in Ukraine is not only the debt of the CLTC, but the problem is that democracy in general is compounded by local self-government. Because we understand that the opposition has been seeking out how long the elections in these so-called troubled districts have been. We did get them. But there's still a huge number of other elections to be held today in Ukraine, but they're not being held because the government is not comfortable because it's losing these elections, and it's just not assigning them. This is, of course, a violent situation in the capital city of Kiev, with no election to the Kiev City Council, the city’s head. This is the situation at other district centers: this is also the Chernivites, this is Herson, this is also the Mikolai, this is the Chernigs. So it's actually happening all over the country right now. This is also the situation in the Ternopil region, where the territorial commission, controlled by the Party of Regions and Communists, and the Lithuanian Party, which has already left Parliament in general. They still don't start new district council deputies, chosen by lists, it's been going on for three years. And other examples of disregard for Ukrainian legislation, they're loud, they need an immediate response to the Ukrainian Parliament as a higher legislature. If we're talking about all of these cases, we can't forget October 2nd, just recently. Under this with the Kiev City Council, when there was another illegal session of the Kyiv City Council, and when 15 lines of the Berkut Special Branch were thrown down there, and they were not letting any of the people's deputies into the premises of the Kyiv City State Administration. That's what government money goes for, that's what budget money goes for, to protect the illegal conflicts of parasites that rob our cities that rob our country, that lead to bankruptcy. But surely we will restore the people of Ukraine, we will hold elections, we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u179	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u180	People's deputy to the Kurennay, strike party. Please give the floor to the national deputy Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u181	Please Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u182	Good afternoon! Hello! People's MP Paul Rizanenko, strike faction, 97 constituency. The bill, which relates to the increase in the expenditure foreseen for the CVA, is 48 million, but unfortunately, I would like to point out that only 20 million of these 48 go to the holding of consecutive elections in five troubled districts. The remaining money is 14 million -- well, there's no problem, there's a national voter register, and 11 million -- there's a loan for cameras, there's a video camera. There was much discussion about whether the cameras were good or not. You know how an ape can give a computer — a good thing it's been given a computer or not. Cameras are a good thing. But the point is that no one has used them: neither in courts, nor in law enforcement, nor in courts — when all of these findings were legally or illegally established or the results of the elections were not established. So, you know, this is a two-pronged situation. It's kind of a good idea to make extra funding choices -- a good part, a negative part -- to pay for those cells that weren't used. And I'll draw your attention, these extra-curricular elections under the law that was passed are not intended to be used either. We will support this bill with a requirement, namely, with a public appeal to the Party of Regions to support another bill that has already been registered and to consider it in a timely manner, which provides for the use of video cameras in the five circuits in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u183	Thank you. National MP Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, there are two elements to this decision: there is a management component, and there is a purely financial component. From a managerial point of view, I must point out why we have been discussing this situation for almost a year in five districts. And what the management has to do is make the Central Election Commission so that you and I don't go back to that question again. Why were the results of the elections not recognized? The results of the elections were not recognized because, in some cases, especially in the Cherkas region, the heads of the commissions and in Cerkasa, and in Caneva, they acted in an entirely criminal, illegal way to break the results of the elections. The same situation has taken place in many other districts, so today the Central Election Commission should place the emphasis here clearly and we should not allow the members of the commission or the heads of the commission who openly faked the results to work again during this election company. The second position, no less important, is the key element of using the administrative resource during this. In these districts there was a direct distribution of funds, so it is essential for us in principle that the Central Electoral Commission, after examining this situation, clarify the police, the executive authorities, who actually broke this distribution of money and ensure that there is no bribe in these elections. In general, it would be ideal to support the changes to the law, and I suggested it in the perspective that, during the election campaign, I would stress once again, the electoral company, we would not die for 60 days, ban and, so-called, charity aid. Because, in the form of charity, there's a ransom for the electorate and all that. And everyone seems to know that. And, Vladimir Vasilovich, the financial part, our experts, Mrs. Tetjana Sluze, financial discipline and budgeting experts, are surprised to learn that by this sum of almost 49 million, 11 million receivables for so-called, sad cameras. I think there's still going to be a time for these cameras to be exposed to a criminal case, so we can figure out where the billion and where those cameras are. Therefore, we are firmly opposed to covering, in terms of financial security for re-elections, financial and criminal offences that have taken place. So this 11 million needs to be removed from here, and we need to provide exclusively the money that goes into the electoral process. I'm convinced that we're going to re-election the first and last time in the history of Ukraine. And the five national deputies of our colleagues, who have actually become deputies, will work with us in this session room for the benefit of their constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u185	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national MP of Borita. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u186	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Olga Borita. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the Communist faction will certainly vote in favour of this bill, so that funds will be made available to the Central Election Commission, so that funds will be made available for the holding of the election. But, you know, we're going to push the hard soul buttons, because members of the Central Electoral Commission are taking the most active part in blocking the referendum at the people's initiative. They do not, according to their decisions, send representatives to arrange for the holding of a national referendum. Of course, this is a phenomenon that we condemn with great condemnation because we want to go to Europe. There is no such thing in any country that the Central Election Commission does not send its representatives in violation of all laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u187	Thank you. Presentations by the National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u188	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give my word to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u189	We pass the word to Knjazević, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u190	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for your word. Dear colleagues, frankly, when we adopted the "Re-Elect" Act in these troubled five districts, I couldn't even think of saving it from being signed and effective until September 26th. Why did it take the President 20 days to conduct an expert analysis of a document that was actually made up of one page? And only after such a bill was introduced to make changes to the budget did I understand. It has been a long time for us not to adopt in two readings and to give full consideration to the Law on Making Changes to the State Budget. Why? Because there's a rule in that law that predicts that the entire amount of money in these troubled districts should be on the Central Electoral Commission no later than October 18th, two days after the start. And now that we've started two readings, we're just not going to be able to physically make it through these terms, transport the funds. And that's why this bill had 11 million funds embedded in it that were used long ago. Dear colleagues! What we're doing now is we're allocating the funds from the State Budget for the re-election is absurd, because we've allocated these funds at the beginning of the year for 24 million, and we've had them for the last time since the government decided that they were one mach at the expense of the Central Electoral Commission, they weren't transferred to the company "Sitronix," which is still "hanging out" the last copies of the Ukrainian budget for Webcams, which, unfortunately, were an absolute affair, and where they are physically, no one still knows, because now they would have to be extended to these elections. Sadly, they no longer exist physically in Ukraine. Apparently, they were taken out. Where they came from. Dear friends! The problem is not that someone is against voting for this law. We're obviously going to vote because we don't have a choice. But the problem is that we have to stop this kind of absolutely like me from doing the charlatan thing on the part of those who are trying to make money out of their own corporate "hotels." What's more, think about it, and think about it, aside from the election money to fund Webcams, they took all of the CBC's wages away. And they're sitting there with no wages. Their choices were to be made, and their salaries went to the webcam. This is the price of these webcams. So it would be good if we put together the conclusion of the Court of Auditors to the Public Prosecutor's Office in a package with this law, and finally those who actually took advantage of these cells would be punished. That would be the compromise that would set us up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u191	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Fedoruk People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u192	Please give the floor to the national deputy Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u193	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u194	Oleg Medunica, Sumi, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear People's Deputies, the Fatherland faction will certainly support this bill. Of course, we demand that these 11 million people who are supposed to be here to send us to pay off some debt, this money, almost a billion, is spent on these Webcams, the Accounting Chamber very clearly indicates that this money has been spent in vain. But let's just mention the fact that the Treasury doesn't run the budget accounts right now. He does not spend any other expenses on government and local budgets. Even hospitals, even unemployment relief, which is primarily to be paid, are now paid with considerable delay. Tell me, where is the guarantee that these funds that we are now going to spend on holding out-of-order elections, for which we have always spoken, will be held by the State Treasury? Where is the guarantee that these funds will not be blocked and hanged? Thus, there will be no activity in organizing out - of - turn elections in these five troubled districts. There's a representative of the Ministry of Finance. Let him swear here now that these expenses will be spent, that these expenses will not affect that these elections will in turn be blocked by the State Treasury, as now blocked by billions of local budgets and millions, hundreds of millions of social payments to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u195	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u196	Yuri Wozniak, Fatherland, 153 constituency, town of Raven. Well, both Ruslan Knazevitch and Mikola Tomenko, and Oleg Medunica, have clearly expressed the position of the Fatherland faction. So I can only say that the Party of Regions today, even on such good intentions as holding elections in troubled districts, wants to put these 11 million to, well, just to steal them. So the "Paternity" faction clearly requires that 11 million be excluded from the decision and then the "Paternity" faction will actually vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u197	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u199	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u200	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Of course, this question is technical. And we have to allocate the funds to carry out the elections expected by all of Ukraine. At the same time, we need to focus on issues that have plagued Ukrainians for several years. And the main issue in the elections that went through, the elections that the Party of the Regions stole from the Ukrainians, along with the communists, and formed in Ukraine today, in the Ukrainian Parliament, most of them are what these cameras were for? And these cameras were needed to scare Ukrainian citizens on their own. To create a myth that the President's most visible eye is watching over every Ukrainian citizen and his choice. They have continued to fight for a long time for Ukrainians to fear power. And to be honest, it worked out well for them. But we do have good news from sociologists. It's an independent institution. Ukraine carried out a study, if Ukraine was afraid of power last year, it was 4 percent, but in just one year it had doubled. However, hatred, contempt for Ukrainian authority have doubled and is now nearly 40 percent. Imagine! Every other Ukrainian, 18 years old, hates the Ukrainian President, hates the Ukrainian deputy of most, hates the Ukrainian mayor of most. And I'd like to focus on the last one. Fear is what they're trying to impose on my constituents in Poltava today. So publicly in a city council session, Alexander Mamay, the city’s head in the presence of deputies, dozens of television cameras on local television, claimed that he would multiply by zero my assistant and city council deputy only for making a remark, saying that he should not spend money on his property, but should spend money on repairing the roads where the children drive to school. And just three weeks after we had a real communal revolution in Poltava, when we forced a police-dressed city head to run all over Poltava and hide in the office of the head of the State Administration, and this assistant of mine was one of the organizers of this rally, his car was burned. And I know that threats continue today to his family's address and address directly. And this town's head waved at the local television station, the City Channel, and put his own man there as the director of this television channel. And today, this television channel shows what "First National" shows -- no truth, exclusively pro-dimensional news -- how beautiful it is in Poltava. That is why I am addressing the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs on behalf of all the Polts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u201	Thank you. We're not looking at the relationship in Poltava right now. I'll give you my word, and we'll talk about Poltava. Deputies of the people of Yemen, factions of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u202	Thank you. Deputies of Yemen, Fatherskina faction, Kyiv, Pechersky, Solomonian and Shevchenk district. Well, first of all, I would like to welcome to the Lawyer’s Day honest lawyers, fair judges, objective prosecutors, and all those who stand on the watch for the rule of law. It's different. Of course, we support this law because the five - district elections are to take place. The crowd expressed their position, which they simply stole in a banal and cynical manner. In addition, I would like to point out that these five districts are not the only place where the opportunity to show and get representatives has been stolen. The city of Kiev has not had its own city head, the so - called mayor, in 1.5 years. The city council of Kiev is nothing more than a distortion of citizens’ will and a center of corruption. And article 5 of the Constitution clearly states that the Ukrainian people are the bearer of power, and no one has the right to usurp it. As a lawyer and legislator, I can clearly assure you that neither the President nor the Supreme Council nor the Constitutional Court have the right to appoint members of both national and local authorities. And because of their controlling Party of Regions, the Constitutional Court has made it possible to extend for two years the powers of people whom no one has chosen as the national deputies of Kiev. Moreover, when it comes to prolongation, to prolong for the position of the city’s Kiev head, or as the mayor calls it, there is simply no such person. He wrote a resignation application, and there is simply no legal basis for anyone to prolong. That's why we, the Fatherland faction, like the other opposition parties, demanded and demanded that elections take place in five districts. We'll provide the necessary solutions to make sure that the funds are allocated. But we also demand that elections be held in Kiev, both by the mayor and by the Kiev City Council. And I want to remind you that we've made a decision to hold these elections over and over again. And the responsibility for not adopting this decision lies solely with the Party of Regions and Communists. Or even above, in Banks, where these decisions are written and then implemented here. That's why I want to say it again. We're going to support this decision and we're going to allocate money for the election. And we demand that the next election decree in Kiev be put to the vote. And we demand that the Party of Regions and Communists fulfill its constitutional duty. Because it is their responsibility, not their right to decide whether or not elections should be held in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u204	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! What's going on in this session room right now? Fifty million dollars for the election. Children are not paid five months to help their children and their parents. They don't pay for the care of the sick for months. Treasury locks down, doesn't pay cash for heating, for light, for kindergarten repairs, and so on, because they say there's no money in the budget. And 50 million dollars for the re-election, but for your lunch. And I ask, and those who faked the election results, what makes us lose 50 million today? What are these parasites like geese water? Why aren't they answering? A simple man steals a chicken, he's put in jail. They faked the election, stole billions, billions, and they're not responsible for anything. Who stole it? Party of regions. Who Answers? What, are you kidding? You're very funny because you never know how simple people live, so you go out and laugh because you're shoveling money. Because for you to steal a billion or ten billion, no matter what, a simple man for 100 bucks lives a month and doesn't know how to survive. And you motherfuckers are still laughing. May you be drowned when you laugh and abuse the common people. And that's why I'm responsible for the theft of the Regional Party's funds, the guilty members of the commission. I ask why the members of the district commission who forged the five - district election, what they would do again. What morals do they have that they have the legal right to hold these elections? And I'll tell you what: because they're covered by the Party of Regions, they're covered by power, they're covered by the President, and they're covered by the government. And so you bandits think you've taken God as your beard, that you can forge elections, that you can bully, that you can steal voices from people and not answer! You don't think so! You're gonna end up dead. The end of your power will come, the end of the Party of Regions will come, the end of the Communists who support and cover the Party of Regions! We'll get you out of here in the villas, and most of this House will be normal people who will bring order to the country. And we're going to start you at 101 kilometers. Shame on the Party of Regions! Get off the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u205	I'm asking you to give me a minute, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u206	I want to answer to my colleague, not the bandit Oleg Lazka. I want to answer Oleg Laska, not a member of the Party of Regions. Dear friend, if we ask the question, whether we should hold elections in five districts or not. If elections are to be held, we do not have the right to listen to Oleg, but we should vote in favour of the proposed draft budget change. It was you who, your part of the hall, always appealed that the five circuits should be held immediately. We support this idea of yours and have developed a draft amendment to the Budget Act. And I call upon all the national MPs, including not the bandit Oleg Láška, including not the member of Oleg Lášk's Party of Regions to vote in favour of this bill for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u207	I want to ask the reporter, do you have a closing statement? None. I'm asking you to sit down, I'll put you to the vote. We'll make decisions. Please. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3150) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to increase the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:40:23]] For 316 Against 0, held – 0 did not vote – 84. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 165, Fatherland - 70, Vitalia Klicka - 29, Freedom - 35, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 17. The draft Act (No. 3085) amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (on the financing of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Youth and Sport) is under consideration. How do we consider this question? Please vote on who supports the reduced procedure. There's a vote coming. [[13:41:30.]] For-161 Against – 76, held – 13, not voted – 145. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to the report of Minister of Education and Science Dmitry Vladimirovich Tobacco. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u208	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, the draft law is essentially technical and is aimed at implementing the decision of the President of Ukraine, which, by decree of 28 February 2013, number 96 reorganised the central executive authorities, creating the Ministry of Youth and Sports separately and the Ministry of Education and Science separately. The bill proposes that the Ministry of Youth and Sport and the Ministry of Education and Science should be given adequate funding without increasing budget programmes. So the funding stays within the same limits, the programs are just different. In addition, the name of one of the budget programmes is specified, and on the basis of the cost-saving cost of the budgeted programme 220.11.30*** the training of workers in vocational and technical educational institutions, the vocational and technical educational institutions of social rehabilitation offers the opportunity to redistribute budgetary assignments and provide funding for the payment of the President's scholarships to the winners of the international language and literary competition of student, student, student youth Taras Shevchenk in the amount of 500 000 dollars. The draft Law was unnoticeable to all central executive authorities and was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on August 15. The Committee on Budgets supported it. I also supported the budget committee. Requesting support for the draft Law as drafted by the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u209	Thank you, sit down. Fellowship of the Head of the Budget Committee, Eugene Borisovich Geller. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Budget Committee at its meeting on September 5, this year, reviewed the draft law (registration number 3085). The bill proposes to set budgetary targets for the newly created Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Youth and Sport within the total amount of expenditure foreseen in the 2013 State Budget for Executive Authorities. So the adoption of the bill will not change the total amount of government budget expenditure. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made that relate to the correct drafting of the bill. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. At the same time, during the drafting of this bill, the Budget Committee received a call from the Ministry of Education and Science on the urgency of resolving issues regarding the completion of the construction of the student dormitory of the Kiev National Trade and Economic University, the implementation of the World Summer and Winter Universities, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided to support the Ministry's initiative, and appropriate legal positions were to be taken into account in the drafting of this bill if it was supported. Moreover, the bill needs to be reconciled with the current drafting of the State Budget Act 2013 and with the bills to amend it if they are to be considered and adopted before the bill is considered. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending a bill under number 3085 to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the proposals made in the letter-based committee to the Supreme Council. Then the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text and the addition to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u211	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for factions. Please, Party of Regions, Hanna Herman National.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u212	To save the precious time of the Ukrainian Parliament, let me briefly put it this way. The faction of the Party of the Regions will definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u213	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Kotelak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u214	Please pass the word to the National Deputy Tetjana Tears.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u215	Please, Aunty Tears, please pass it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u216	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Fatherland faction will support the bill in this editorial, which is broadcast by the reporter and co-reporter. But I want to stop at the comments and very big suggestions. The "Fatherland" faction, thanks to this bill, will think that we will actually have a minister of Ukrainian education, a minister of Ukrainian science, who will turn face to face, to professor-teacher's, to students, to students -- and stop conducting inefficient and unrealistic experiments on the education sector. The Fatherland faction will be very eager to see the Ukrainian Minister of Ukrainian Education and Ukrainian Science stop the disgraceful cases when education workers are involved in political actions in support of the well-constructed Party of the Regions. The "Fatherland" faction will consider that the new Minister of Ukrainian Education and Ukrainian Science will do everything to ensure that in rural schools these schools do not close and disappear from the map of Ukraine entire population. Instead of shutting down rural schools, the minister of Ukrainian education and Ukrainian science would have created the right conditions -- and equipped toilets that are not on the streets, but in rural schools. And there is a very important moment. The bill was so quick to consider that they somehow lost 895,000 dollars on two budget programs. And so in signing you, Vladimir Vasilovich, I very much ask you to take these moments into account. They're gone, it's a gross arithmetic error. And a very big request. The Fatherland faction will consider the following: that the additional funds allocated to the Ministry of Education and Science under the budget programme "Physical and Sports Training of Student and Student Youth" will be, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u217	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u218	Indeed, it has been used for a purpose this year. And it's a very important moment. Note, Your Honor, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, the disgraceful facts of law enforcement making protocols to combat corruption against education workers working in rural areas. A specific example. Director of Children’s House (Jovtanzi village, Lviv region, Kamyanko-Buzy district) She has a record of corruption against her.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u219	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u220	that she did not report to the superior authority that her husband was employed by an electrician and a carpenter in her children’s home. Is this corruption? Please, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. There are many such facts in Ukraine. And instead of having this respectable woman holding half orphans and orphans -- 53 people -- she's been forced to go to court for three months, to interrogate the area, not to do her direct work. And there are many such cases, because respected law enforcement officials don't know the law about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u221	Finish up. "Freedom" gave you the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u222	Surrendered, yes. Because law enforcement officials don't know, unfortunately, that article 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u223	Turn off the microphone! Thank you. You two. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't shout, women have to be respected. I beg of you, National Deputy Illenko, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u224	The All - Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we are now considering a very strange bill that has a technical function. We understand that. But it reveals the essence of all the so - called reforms that have been being described for three years by the Yanukovich regime. Reforms are described, and the essence of reform is that they take two ministries, unite them, create huge bureaucratic problems, and it does not actually work for months because there is a union. Then they are separated. And that's reform. This is a brilliant reform, which, I understand, was done for two years by the Ministry officials, who were initially united and then disengaged. That is why we see the folly of this policy. We can see that these are the reforms. But, you know, these reforms, even though this is the main pain only for those officials who work in these ministries mostly. But there are other "reforms" that are actually destroying people who are destroying Ukrainian society. We know what reforms are currently taking place in Ukraine when schools are closed when kindergartens are closed, which are undergoing major reforms. We know what kind of reforms we have in the field of, for example, government procurement, especially in the Ministry of Education and Science, when we find that textbooks cost a lot of money, almost 100 dollars a book. These are also huge reforms, I understand that, both achievements and improvements. And actually, dear friends, I think that things like this, they have to say in principle, that this authority is completely incompetent if they're dealing with completely empty things, not real state buildings. Well, what state building and what real reforms can we talk about while Mr. Tobacco is headed by the Ministry of Education? Well, what reforms and what state building might this be about? That's all we have to do. This will be a major reform. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u225	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u226	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And I want, of course, to start with what, and it all started out so well. Two years ago, President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine made the very right decision to optimize the activities of all authorities. And according to his purpose, it was supposed to be a third of the cut. So it's been two years, and what do we have? That instead of actually fighting bureaucracy, we have this fight that has led to an increase in the number of officials. Because the number of ministries is growing, the central authorities are growing, the number of prosecutors is growing, the judges are growing. And here's the whole efficiency of the officials. The question is, Who is responsible for the fact that two years ago the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports was destroyed when it was not only the Ministry but also the entire system of territorial authorities. Then, two years later, it was realized that a major disaster had occurred when children’s sports schools were closed all over Ukraine. Who Are Responsible for Political Responsibility? President of Ukraine Viktor Janukovic. Because he's signing such impeccable decrees. And the second. Here's the question. The government keeps telling us, "We don't have the money to raise pensions." The government does not have the funds to raise wages, even to pay wages today is not enough. And what's increasing in the number of officials in Ukraine is the cost, it turns out. And there's a lot of money going on. And once again, we're asking the impact faction again: why aren't there any changes to the 2013 State Budget? Today, students lack 5 billion dollars to pay their salaries. Why is the 2014 budget not implemented? And we make it seem like nothing's going on. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u227	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u228	The country lives without a normal social budget in 2013, and the country actually enters the new year without a budget for 2014. This is the direct responsibility of the government. That's why, except for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u229	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Deputy of Jury, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u230	Thank you. Alexander Prisznyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. [[B in m in s a l in]] Our faction will support this bill. However, I would like to draw attention to what has already been said in principle above, yes. That the Ministry of Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism had been destroyed in 2010, they had been merged into one. Over the course of these 2.5 years, bureaucratic gravity has gone on in places to unite district administrations. Today, we return to disunity and nothing but for bureaucrats to do anything, nothing but direct losses to the state budget. So we urge that, first of all, we find those responsible for this fragile reform, draw them to responsibility and to take greater responsibility for the future, for youth policy, for education and for reform as a whole. The main thing is the interests and human rights, not the whims of fate or of other officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m0.u231	What are you doing? What were you yelling at? He spoke the national language. Why don't you let him do it! Kaida! Kaida, you were a team leader there. Why don't you let me do it? Well, please, there's a colleague in public speaking. Yes, all those who wish to speak, please sit down and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3085) amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (on the financing of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Youth and Sports) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:58]] For 335, against 0, held-0, didn't vote-56. Decision taken. The factions. Replic, come to the office. I'll listen. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue the session. And Kaidu, please come to me with a reply.
