ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:16]] There are 363 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today we have the birthday of the national deputy of Natalia Volodymyrovna Agaphonova. Let's say hello to Natalia Volodymyr and wish you the best. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine attended the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Vijacheslav Andriyovich Ovcharenko, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk, other officials, participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In accordance with articles 106 and 148 of the Ukrainian Constitution, President Alexander Volodymyrovic of Ukraine was appointed by decree on 17 September this year. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine makes an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich Kasminin, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u2	I, Kasminin Alexander Volodymyrovich, solemnly and conscientiously swear to the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Let us welcome the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and wish him a successful job. [[Applause]] And we thank the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for participating in our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (Registration No. 0039) on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Letters) between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in Operation Ocean Shield is being submitted. Reporter – Minister of Defence of Lebedev Pavel Valentinovich. I offer to consider the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:06:40]] For-152. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u5	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in the Ocean Shield operations, developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine to participate in the same-name NATO operation against piracy. The adoption of the bill will ensure the completion of all internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in the Ocean Shield operations and the creation of conditions for the participation of the national contingent of the proposed operation, with the subsequent involvement in the European Union operations "Atalanta". In the preparation of the draft decree by the President of Ukraine and the relevant Ukrainian Law on Approval of President of Ukraine's Decision to deploy a national contingent of Ukraine to participate in NATO's operation against the piracy of the Ocean Shield and the European Union Operation Atalanta. The participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the above-mentioned operations, namely the NATO Operation against the Ocean Shield piracy from 24 September 2013 and 2 January 2014 and the European Union Operation Atalanta from 3 January to 5 March 2014 corresponds to the foreign political interests of the State and the military aspects of their implementation. The cost of ensuring the participation of Ukraine's national contingent in operations is included in the 2013 government budget and in the Ukrainian Defence Ministry's 2014 budget request. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u6	Have a seat, please. The deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yuri Romanovich, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u7	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the extremely important document submitted by the President of Ukraine, which allows Ukraine to participate actively in international processes, supporting the image of the peacekeeping state. I think everyone understands the importance of this issue. And given the strict order of the day, I would ask you not to focus on the discussion, but to support this bill, thus allowing us to act as a civilized state and to be active in the international arena. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill, ratify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? [[B in m in s a l in]] It is, isn't it? I'd like you to sign up for the factions. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Baiduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Gordienka. What's his name? Sergei Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u10	Are we going to be supportive? Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the bill. But I took the floor to inform all Ukrainian citizens and to appeal to the law enforcement authorities about the destruction of the monument to Vladimir Ilchi Lenin in the village of Petrovka in the village of Horol. [[B in m in s a l in]] At 3: 20 p.m., these young men were caught on a highway to the next village to destroy the memorial for soldiers who died during the Great Homeland War. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today I am addressing law enforcement officials, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to document these facts fully. And I'd like to point out that these young men were on a car called Volkswagen AA4317IA. Today, instead of doing the law-making work, the Ukrainian MP Miroshnichenko on his BMW-X6 car, WM1705AH, is in the Poltava region and is trying to liberate these comrades. I'm calling for these vandals to be held accountable. We will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u11	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP of Mochkov. In the end, I'll give you a minute, ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please give my word to my colleague Kuren Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the strike faction certainly supports the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance regarding participation in Operation Ocean Shield. This is in fact the execution of the internal procedures necessary for this agreement to take effect. It is clear that such operations are not only an increase in the international level, the international authority of the Ukrainian State, but not just the military training of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it is not just the establishment of order in the Gulf of Aden, where Somali pirates are known to have been terrorizing practically the fleet that has been going on there for several years. This is also a deepening of Euro-Atlantic cooperation between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance. For a time, this question, as it were, has been raised in Ukraine, but we hope that sooner or later it will become relevant again. And there will be a time when the movie theater "The Star" President will gather a faction of the Party of Regions to show them how to support the North Atlantic Alliance and the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u15	Party of regions, National Deputy of Soroka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u16	May I have Chechtovo Mikhail Vasilovich, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u17	Please, Chečetov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u18	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in Operation Ocean Shield. This operation is an ongoing NATO operation to combat Somali piracy in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of the Horn of Africa, which began in August 2009. It is envisaged that Ukraine will support this operation by channelling a national contingent into the Gethman Sagydachny frigate, equipped with a K-27 helicopter on board, and a special task force for 90 days in the initial phase in the second half of 2013. It has already been emphasized that this is the image of Ukraine, the promotion of the image and reputation of Ukraine in the international arena. Once again, I invite the left and right of the room to support the ratification of this very important bill for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u19	The Freedom Union, the People's Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u21	Please, Alexander Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u22	Alexander Shevchenko, Freedom faction. Our faction will vote in favour of ratifying the agreement and shipping the ship to the Red Sea region. The fact is that 10 percent of the world’s commercial fleet is essentially served by sailors from Ukraine. And a lot of them are trapped in pirates. For example, if 1 thousand and 45 merchants of the world’s merchant fleet were captured four years ago, this year only 9 years ago. This is evidence that the fight against piracy has its consequences. By the way, Ukraine, by participating in this action, is acting in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations with the goals set out in Security Council resolutions, the United Nations, and Ukraine does not lose its right to property in the international arena. That is, the armed group or the team to be sent to the Red Sea region will be subject to the command of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u23	Thank you. I'm asking you, the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Knazevitch. Please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Of course, we will support this ratification project, because Ukraine has suffered as no one has ever suffered from the actions of the Somali pirates themselves. Also, sadly, in mid - 1990, tens of thousands of Ukrainians who once worked in Ukrainian Black Sea shipping and worked in the Ukrainian merchant fleet lost their ability to do so and are now forced to seek happiness and a piece of bread for their family under the flags of other nations. And their trade routes, unfortunately, are going through this risky zone. It is unfortunate that Ukraine is only now making such a decision, for somehow it has always been possible to be assigned to the NATO mission. Finally, we realized that without NATO, we can't even effectively protect our citizens in other areas, I'm not saying that we're going to get to the point where we can be safe in our own territory just under the NATO umbrella. It's a shame that we're only jamming holes everywhere with one of our ships, the Gethman Sagaidak, obviously all the rest of the ships are simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u25	Dear national deputies, one minute, Illenko, and we'll make our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u26	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to turn to the faction of red-selling liars and clowns. Listen carefully here. Monuments, so - called monuments to your cat and Ukrainian - hater Lenin, will be demolished all over Ukraine very soon. In the city of Kiev, in particular, when the new Kyivrada is in place, Lenin of Besarabka will be the first to make a decision. And you, red bastards, will be convicted in Nuremberg-2 for your crimes against the Ukrainian nation, for those millions of victims of famine and repression! [[B in m in s a l in]] And don't yell, you screamers, come here and yell at us, brave ones! You'd better understand that Ukraine is an independent state, and you, the descendants of the Gulag Party and the famine party, don't belong in it. Know this carefully and remember it! Because very soon your party in Ukraine will be gone! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Do not turn the session into a replica. We have many questions to consider. So don't insult each other. Vote and make decisions. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, national deputies? There's no time for gossip as much as you can. Don't insult each other. I'll bet you a vote, please. Let's just work the day out without offense. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 0039) on the ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Letters) between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on Ukraine's participation in Operation Ocean Shield to be accepted as a whole. Please vote. [[10:21:21]] For 331 Against - 30, held - 0, did not vote - 33. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law, registration number 0031, on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the importance of cultural heritage for society, is under consideration. How do we view it? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. Don't yell, vote. [[10:22:04]] For 185 Against 75, held – 7, not voted – 129. Decision taken. The factions. Leonid Mikhailovich Novohatko, Minister of Culture, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u28	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law that was put forward for your consideration today was drafted for the purpose of ratifying a convention called Parliament Speaker in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. Why do we need this convention? Because with all the beauty of Ukrainian legislation in the field of protection of cultural heritage, its positive qualities, which we do not celebrate, are, let's say, European Union experts, however, and this legislation, and even more so, its application requires a stronger and more severe response from society in the area of protection of monuments. This convention, which is now before you, has been signed by 21 countries out of 47, many, but 15 countries have already ratified this convention. I call them Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Luxembourg, Moldova, Montenegro, Norway, Portugal. Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Macedonia So without Ukraine, I don't think we can do this. I very much ask you to vote in favour, because the adoption of this convention will allow us to introduce into our Ukrainian legislation the laws that are in this convention, there are whole chapters that are not at all today. Well, for example, about cultural heritage and information society, there's a pretty clear definition of the interaction between state and non-state organizations in the area of cultural heritage protection, in the area of cultural heritage, in the sphere of media support. These things are not reflected in us, and, hopefully, after your approval of this document, we will also make adjustments to our Ukrainian legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u29	Thank you. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemiru.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! This convention is not the only one within the Council of Europe that deals with cultural issues, cultural values in particular. It was signed in 2005. Ukraine signed it in 2007. What's important? I want you to understand that it's not just about monuments, it's about things that relate to democratic participation and cultural heritage, cultural heritage and education. It is also important that the information society should address the issues relating to the technologies used within the information society and the priority of preserving cultural heritage. I'd like you to hear, separately, your honorary colleagues, how a cultural heritage is defined in the convention that is proposed to be ratified. "To a common cultural heritage, the heritage of Europe refers to all forms of cultural heritage, which together form a common source of memory, understanding, identity and creativity. Cultural heritage is ideals, principles, values derived from the experience gained from progress and conflicts that contribute to the development of a peaceful stable society based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The committee considered this issue yesterday and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, the National Deputy of Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u32	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u33	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Company faction will support this bill, based on the fact that today is really the time to protect cultural values in Ukraine. And there is something to talk about today. And what's strange is that we have the spares that created the communists of Soviet times, and there are the best works and everything that artists have created, stored, stretched the reserves of the painting. They were hanged in the office. Already in the Cabinet of Ministers, they've painted the paintings, replaced them clearly, so to speak, with copies. What, do we need to join the convention so that we do not steal ours from our people? And as for the museum of the Great Homeland War, heroes. What have you done with these museums now? Stretched, robbed. Millions of people shed blood. You are destroying what needs to be left to future generations today. Look at the condition of graves and obelisks today! Look at the state of museum exposure. At least go to the museum of the Great Homeland War. What have you done here? They show the bandits who fought on the side of the Germans as heroes. What heroes? The Fascists are being shown by the heroes of the people of Ukraine today. Kiev is the center of the city, an inheritance in UNESCO is recorded. What you've done in 22 years has destroyed the cultural acquisitions that the people have created throughout the millennium! And today you're talking about ratification? Who needs this kind of demonstration? I'd like, my dear colleagues, to pay attention to what's going on right now, what they're talking about. I want to say that Freedom is ordering authorities to discredit and destabilize the situation in the state. They're ordering authorities today to just distract us from the campaign that the Company is doing in order to hold a referendum in our country. It's an order. And we know that this is the authority of the Party of the Regions that ordered the Freedom Party. And so are those who killed, by the way, in Baba's Yar in September.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u36	I want to remind you once again that we're all going to need to come and worship in Baba Jar on September 27-28. That's where the beech chicken shot Ukrainian citizens! Killing civilians and prisoners of war! So you and all the facts that we need to know about our history here today, in this very convention, we have really determined our policy of protecting national acquisitions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u37	I beg you, Fatherland faction, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u38	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Well, respectable colleagues, first of all, when the Kabmini paintings were painted, all the former communists were working in Kabmin! They did. It's different. One of them was crying about a cultural heritage just now. Thousands of churches were destroyed along with the priests alive! Who?Oh, my God! At the commune! I was crying about the museums here. So far, archaeologists have been digging up bones on the Bull! So far, people are walking around digging up innocently murdered people with whom?Oh, my God! Communists! So far in Lviv prison in Lonsky, brains still can't scrape off walls! Shots were fired like that. Bullets weren't enough. Who? Communists! And now we are taught what is a cultural heritage to love? Get out of this Parliament, let Ukraine breathe! [[B in m in s a l in]] And now it's about cultural heritage, because they don't know what the law is about anymore. The secular thing is absolutely, it says that cultural heritage is both material and intangible values, the song of the Ukrainian people, the proverb of the Ukrainian people, the opinion of the Ukrainian people. All of this together, within the Council of Europe, we will now stand up and defend. And the important thing in the convention is that only in interaction with civil society can this be done effectively. There are rules in this Council of Europe convention that we are now ratifying, that all decisions on cultural heritage must be adopted in partnership with public organizations and taken for granted by their criticism. This will be a guide for the government, which, if the Council of Europe will act and the convention, we will really start protecting the cultural heritage. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u39	National MP Pankevitch, Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will definitely support the ratification of this important document. We very much hope that the document will contribute to the protection of both the world’s cultural heritage and the national Ukrainian cultural heritage, and to protect, we understand, today, indeed, what is more, especially, of the criminal attacks on Ukrainian structures that today reflect on our objects and material and spiritual culture. First of all, I mean, the objects of our sacral heritage, our spiritual sanctuary, which is affected by the so - called Moscow Patriarchate. I very much hope that this treaty will, in fact, contribute to the desecration of our spiritual sanctuaries, and we also hope that this treaty will contribute to the divisiveness of Ukraine and, because in Ukraine, there will indeed be a time when we will not have the monuments of the Lenins, the Stalins, which are being built today, and the other dishonors that are being destroyed today, indeed, by our Ukrainian State through the Communist Party and through the Party of Regions of our Authority, to which the Communists have served so faithfully now and served all these more than 22 years of Ukrainian independence. It's because of their joint activities that we don't have a Ukrainian state today, we don't have a Ukrainian culture today, we don't have a Ukrainian economy today. We very much hope that such determinations will truly unite us with a world European society where there is no place for the crimes of the communist past and the crimes of the Nazi past, with which both the communists and the Nazi fascists are very much and very much in common. We hope that this decree will promote the approval of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian national memory. Because we will have more national monuments, more national Ukrainian museums, which will promote our own Ukrainian history, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u41	Party of regions, National Deputy Vitaly Zurawski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Ukraine has a great culture. We have a huge legacy that we can be proud of. These and UNESCO’s monuments, as well as monuments of national significance, are monuments of local significance. So don't tell me you're not telling the truth. Ukraine is a great culture with a great heritage. And we need to protect her. That's the first one. Secondly, this document clearly defines what cultural heritage is. I wanted to see the document. These are ideals, principles, values that contribute to the development of a peaceful society. It's the building of a legal state. This is the building of civil society and democracy. I call on the deputies to support this very important document for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u43	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Irina Heratschenko. Please. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, our faction seems extremely symbolic that we are discussing this document on the day when Euro-Integration Documents are adopted. Because it's really about cultural heritage, it's about environmentalism, it's about European values. To whom Ukraine wants to draw as close today. And it's very important that we not only accept the relevant documents, but also implement them to keep these documents. It is important that we keep in mind that the cultural heritage is the slopes of Dniper and that we stop building the President’s helicopter. It's important that those 37 paintings that were stolen from the Cabinet of Ministers were returned there, including paintings of the great Ukrainian painter Gluschenka 2 disappeared and, you know, they couldn't find the fakes they were correcting. It is vital that the robbers of Kiev go to prison, not here today, and talk about their cultural heritage. And we obviously support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u45	Thank you. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 0031) on the ratification of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the importance of cultural heritage for society as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. With your cards! [[10:37:51]] For 375 Against-0, held-1, not voted-35. Decision taken. The factions. By order of the organization of our work, the National Deputy Stoyan requests a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! I'm authorized to speak from a group of deputies for the further implementation of our work. We have great respect for journalists, for their professional functions, but we must be protected without their accidental actions. Look up here, we've got big cameras hanging over us. Suddenly, the loading dock fell, and my colleague, Supper, was nearly wounded. We don't know what these photographers are doing, whether they're journalists or something else, that's their right. But I'm asking you to protect the MPs and give us a chance to do that, that's security technology. So either set up screens or something, but we need to organize our work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Here's a question. There's a young man. He almost fell off the balcony yesterday. He's taking pictures. So I'm asking you to behave as you please. The draft Act (No. 3264) on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine's participation in the UN Mission of Stabilisation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is under consideration. How will we view it? Short? Please vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:10]] For 186, against -65, held - 9, not voted - 151. Decision taken. Reported by Defence Minister Paul Valentinovich Lebedev. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u48	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! A national contingent of 8 helicopters and 250 military personnel has been carrying out the tasks of the UN Mission of Stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo since March 2012. On 28 March 2013, the UN Security Council extended the mandate of the UN Mission until 31 March 2014. In view of the above, the Ministry of Defence has developed a draft Ukrainian law on an approved decision by the President of Ukraine to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine's participation in the United Nations Mission from stability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which allows for the continued participation of the national contingent in the Congo and to increase the number of the 18th individual helicopters to 300 military personnel, as well as the additional deployment of two Mi-24 helicopters. In view of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which remains tense, impact and transport helicopters, the UN Mission is seen as a key component of the mission force in fulfilling the UN security mandate. The adoption of the law will have a positive impact on the strengthening of Ukraine's international authority, will be an essential policy of diplomatic importance for promoting national interests within the United Nations, and will provide an opportunity to improve aviation training, to restore and modernize military technology at the expense of United Nations compensatory revenues. Ukraine’s proposed draft law does not require additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u49	Thank you. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please come to the rostrum, Alexander Ivanovich, for the third time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, high-ranking colleagues! We are proud of the international community’s invitation to Ukraine, its strength to fight against sea piracy, and its recognition. We are proud that at hot spots at the level of professionally trained Ukrainian peacekeepers are carrying our flag of peace in the world. In Congo alone, 85 pilots, 45 percent of the warehouse, became pilots of the 1st class, sniper pilots, guidance groups, all prepared there. Our pilots are not only protecting our military in the Congo and treating people, and sharing food with them is the pride of our state. For this reason, our committee, the Committee on Security and Defence, unanimously supported this bill at its meeting. I appeal to you to support the bill, to accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Can we put it to a vote, is that clear or not? You want to talk, please sign up for factions. I asked to vote, but there are willing discussions. Faction Fatherland, National MP of Sikor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u52	Please report to Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u53	Please hand over to the national deputy Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the situation in the Republic of the Congo is not very simple, and it needs the very intervention of the United Nations. Now there are military personnel from many countries and our contingent is one of the most numerous and one of the most professional. Here, Alexander Ivanovich has already said that we have considered this issue on the committee, and indeed all factions, all of them more faithfully, MPs who join different factions, have supported the deployment or, more faithfully, the continuation of our contingent by March of the following year. This is about an increase of 50 and two helicopters. And of course, if the financial side is interested, the United Nations itself provides funding. I think we all understand that our armies should be present, indeed, at all hot spots under the auspices of the United Nations. Therefore, on behalf of the faction that will support this bill, I ask all deputies to also vote in favour of the continued presence of our contingent in the Republic of the Congo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u55	Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u56	Please pass the word to military expert Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u57	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u58	The glory of Ukraine! Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has consistently supported all initiatives to strengthen the Ukrainian army. Obviously, Ukrainian peacekeepers are now or are not the only pride of our army that has been successfully destroyed by the Party of Regions and today’s Secretary of Defense. Moreover, the participation of Ukrainian peacekeepers in peacekeeping is the only foreign political success of today’s authorities, for they have nothing to boast about, so they abandon our soldiers. And we will always support our troops to be strengthened to participate in peacekeeping. But can you please tell me how the army can fight and participate in these military companies if we have underfunding the army more than four times? If today we're allocating 0.8 percent of GDP to our army, to our non-block country, at a time when our neighbours, like Turkey, are 6 percent of GDP when Russia is 3.5 percent GDP. We send our soldiers, who are homeless, tens of thousands of officers have nowhere to live, who get the least money. I remember that in Iraq, less than Ukrainian peacekeepers received only soldiers from Mongolia. So when we say that our peacekeepers are the face of the Ukrainian state, we should demand an increase in the financing of the army, at least four times, we should demand an increase in the financing of Ukrainian military intelligence, at least three times. Because if military intelligence is three times unfunded today, we send our soldiers blind. We have to ask that in the 2014 budget at least 3 percent of GDP should be financed by the Ukrainian Army. And then the Ukrainian army will be the face of the Ukrainian state and the pride of our state. Because someone who doesn't feed his army feeds someone else. But I suggest, besides the peacekeepers, that we send a faction of Communists all over the Congo. Let them fight for their rights. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u59	Party of regions, National Deputy Alexander Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u60	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, give the floor to the people's representative of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u61	Please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, if you look at the substance of this law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a national contingent for Ukraine's participation in the UN mission from the stabilisation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, you need to pay attention to just two moments. First moment. In accordance with UN procedures, the mission's mandate usually lasts for one year each year. And, of course, this agreement takes place immediately before the expiry of the previous mandate. Ukraine has already received an invitation to continue this mandate. That's why we have to agree first, and secondly, increase our presence in the Congo by 50 military personnel and also by two military rifles. Since this approach will promote the international authority of the state as an equal partner in the maintenance of international peace and security, the Party of Regions will speak in favour and call on everyone to vote without unnecessary populist statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u63	Thank you. Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u64	Please give my word to my colleague Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u65	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u66	Victor Chumak, city of Kyiv, Dniprovsky district, 214 constituency, political party, Vitalia Klicka. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The Impact Party faction will support this draft law for the reasons that we consistently advocate for the European, Euro-Atlantic integration of our Ukraine. All the smart people today fully understand that we cannot provide our own safety by ourselves and that is why all the challenges facing civilized countries are also facing Ukraine. So here's the principle: my house from the country is not good. Ukraine’s security threats are not urban or local, but they are global enough. And what threatens the rest of the civilized countries is also threatening Ukraine. Therefore, we should participate, in practice. In all peacekeeping operations. Moreover, I want to say that Ukraine is one of the most active members of peacekeeping operations not only under the mandate of the United Nations Security Council but also with the participation of European countries and the North Atlantic Alliance. What is less important is that such operations give a high degree. such operations or participation in peacekeeping operations, along with the better armies of the world, they give a high degree to Ukrainian soldiers and what really makes them proud of our state. But this raises a completely rhetorical question: why are we as a country in a state of geopolitical schizophrenia? On the one hand, we've declared our desire to move towards the European Union, we're participating in all peacekeeping operations, we're participating in all the North Atlantic peacekeeping operations, and on the other hand, we can't. And on the other hand, we can't make absolutely clear the normal foreign policy choice to guarantee our own security and the development of our Armed Forces. Our blockage, which was adopted here in this Parliament, is a step taken on Russia's agenda. Moreover, I want to say that Russia is actively cooperating with NATO, even making money on this cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u67	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u68	He's even making money on this cooperation using his transit potential, and we're doing everything we can to look at Russia and we can't open up completely new possibilities for ourselves. We support this bill and support the activities of our peacemakers. Ukrainian peacekeepers in all such missions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u69	Thank you. The discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3264) approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine's participation in the UN Mission of Stabilisation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:53:47]] For 375 Against - 0, held - 3, not voted - 36. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Law (second reading, 2399) on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the enforcement of judicial decisions is under consideration. Reported by the deputy head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u70	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 5, 2013, with a short period of preparation for second reading. The Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice considered the bill at its meeting on September 18, 2013, in the order of second reading. I would like to remind you that in the first reading of Bill 2399, a discussion took place and, in agreement with all factions, a text was introduced with changes that included compromise, as well as Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Commitments. To prepare Bill 2399 for second reading, 22 amendments were made, 6 of them included in part, 16 were rejected. In view of the foregoing, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to adopt in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. People's MP Greenewecki, amendment number one. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 2. People's Deputy Tears. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u72	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Respectable citizens! This law, the bill proposed by the current authorities, is aimed not at guaranteeing the enforcement of court decisions, but at ensuring that the current authorities do not enforce those decisions. Therefore, among the 22 amendments tabled by the Ukrainian National Deputies, my 14 and I demand that every amendment be discussed and put to a personal vote. Specifically on this amendment. I'm making changes. Since existing legislation provides that the implementing instrument, especially in relation to legal relations, social and pension benefits, can only be filed for three years. I'm making a change for the period for which the court order is to be executed. So I'm asking the National Deputies to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u73	Is there an explanation from the committee? Put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote amendment number one of the People's Deputies, amendment number two of the People's Deputies of Tears. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:19]] For the 120th. Against 1, held-25, not 259. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 3 of the people's MP, Tears, is under consideration. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u74	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Once again, I point out that the bill in force is trying to ensure that the rulings are not enforced. My amendment is the following. We have this notion in article 28 as the executive congregation. And it says so. That in the event of a cancellation of a judicial decision, the executive congregation returns to the debtor. But it's not written during what period. My correction is that the executive congregation be restored within three days. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u75	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputies of Tears. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:36]] For a hundred and One hundred and fifty-five against zero, holding, twenty-six, and not voting, two hundred and thirty-nine. The decision is not made by factions. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Chamber of Tears is under consideration. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention once again that this bill concerns the category of citizens, primarily Chernobyl, children of war, members of war and other Afghan citizens who have been illegally suspended by those who are provided for by their own laws. As of November 1, 2011, the court’s decisions have not been carried out. The amendment concerns the following. So, we have the Enforcement Act, if the bailiff can't find the debtor or the court decision is not being executed, the enforcement service closes the execution without the execution of the court decision. I propose to delete article 45, paragraph 11, of the Act on Executive Conduct. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u77	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4 of the People's Chamber of Tears. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:00:19]] For-149 - 149 versus - 0, held - 28, not a vote - 232. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 5 of the people's MP, Tears, is under consideration. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u78	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Honorable citizens of Ukraine, especially those who have failed to implement your legally executed judicial decisions in recent years. Please pay attention to the Chernobylites, the Afghans, the war, the other categories of people, to the very odious two factions that are so in pain for your improvement that they don't support my amendment in order for this bill to be implemented into a bill of European integration. I'm telling you, I don't have a Communist faction voting for my amendments either. The point of this amendment is as follows. The preceding article is modelled on this 75 article, that is, trying to remove that the executive authorities are closing the enforceable implementations if they are not able to find the debtor or to execute the court’s decision for good reason or for no good reason. Thus, all lawfully rendered judicial decisions, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u79	Right. Honorable National MPs, amendment number five of the people's MP, Tears. Please vote. [[11:02:06]] For a hundred and Okay. Against – 1, held – 24, not voted – 239. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 6 of the people's deputies, Tears, is under consideration. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u80	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Union, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I pay attention to the fact that the current drafting of this law does not allow all judicial decisions to be made to give you back your payments legally. The substance of the amendment is that the current Law on the Enforcement of Today provides for failure to execute judicial decisions with some incomprehensible fines. I make a change with the implementation of the law in force, I make a change in accordance with article 89, which clearly defines the penalties for those debtors who do not comply with the court’s decision at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the faction of the Communist Party factions, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u81	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6 of People's Deputy Tears. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:39]] For 128 Against-0, held-25, did not vote-255. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment number seven. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u82	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I pay your attention, for the second time, think about another parliamentary election to vote for, for those MPs who promise to improve you in words that don't actually do. The substance of the amendment is the following. According to the Law in force today, it is stipulated that a judicial executioner is entitled to carry out judicial decisions for six months. I suggest we cut this rate by half to three months. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are so sorry for the fate of our citizens, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u83	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number seven of the people's MP, Tears. Please vote. [[11:04:56]] For-153 Against-0, held-27, didn't vote-232. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment number nine, People's Deputy Tears, is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u84	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! This amendment regulates the standards of a fair, quality and timely execution of court decisions. By the way, I want to give you statistics. According to the National Budget Act of Ukraine for this year, the budget programme for the enforcement of state-guaranteed decisions provides 153 million dollars, which is only 42 million dollars per July of this year. That's why our government cares so much about you, citizens of honor, that it doesn't even want to carry out this amount of budget assignments that are provided for in the State Budget Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u85	Have you heard that the National MP is asking for support? I'm voting on Amendment 9. Please vote. [[11:06:31]] For 148 Against - 2, held - 29, not voted - 231. The decision is not taken. The factions. What's wrong with you? Amendment 11 is under consideration, People's Deputy Tears. I don't see the People's Deputy Tears. Sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u86	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I am drawing your attention to how the bill is being voted on, and the fate of many millions of citizens will now be decided. The point of my amendment is this. I am also implementing this article, the proper procedure, the execution by the Ukrainian Treasury Service of the execution of judgments. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the State Budget Act provides for a budget programme to compensate for the damage caused by illegal activities by the authorities of the judicial investigation, the prosecutor's office, the courts, the public authorities, for this year, 37.5 million dollars. Taking that into account, you can protect yourself from the legal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 11 of the People's Deputies of Tears. Please vote. [[11:08:27]] For-144 Against – 2, held – 24, did not vote – 241. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 66, Vitaly Klicka Strike 23, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 18. Amendment number 12. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u88	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine, note the procedure for voting for the amendments to the law on the enforcement of court decisions. Our nation has taken the floor to certain international organizations and other institutions that we guarantee the execution of court decisions to citizens, primarily black people, Afghans, war children and so on. I pay your attention to the people's deputies, the law that was passed last year is in force today, and this law should strengthen the guarantee of enforcement. The amendment is the following: I am implementing a procedure for the correctness of the execution of court decisions in the administration of the Treasury. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u89	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 13 of the People's Chamber of Tears. Please vote. [[11:10:09]] For-137 Against - 0, held - 23, did not vote - 247. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 14 of the Agaphonov People's Deputies. And there's the amendment of the people's deputy Rosenka. Turn on Rosenk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u90	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, it is an extremely important social bill that gives people any chance of getting their money for failing to execute court decisions. And so careful colleagues, especially from the Party of Regions that we're proposing. On the first reading, we've set up a series of court decisions that have to be made first of all on social issues, on pension issues, on social assistance issues, on pensions for black people, and so on. And we propose that all of these decisions be made with regard to the judicial decisions that were before the adoption of this bill and after the adoption of this bill. It's a very important amendment made by the Vitalia Klicka faction. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to support her together.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u91	I'm betting on the vote amendment of 14 People's Deputies Rosenka. Please vote. [[11:11:52]] For-141 Against 0, held – 20, did not vote – 247. The decision is not taken. The factions. An amendment to the 15th People’s Deputy is under consideration. Please turn on the remover's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u92	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I, first of all, address Ukrainian citizens and MPs, because I see here, there's no point in addressing them, because, as they say, even the head of the wall. Both the Communists and the Party of Regions are voting as they are waving their hand, and they are voting and do not get in the way of the problem. We have an example of fraud in power, which is passing a bill as a Euro-Integration Act, which is actually an anti-Euro-Integration Bill. In fact, this bill has been called upon not to comply with a court decision, although many citizens have also won the European Court of Human Rights over failure to comply with a court decision. People who have a legal right to receive social benefits have little to do with the state not paying them, they have been tried, they have won national courts and an international court. And actually, in this bill, there's a mechanism to avoid these payments. Actually, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u93	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 15 of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:13:42]] For-141 Against - 1, held - 23, did not vote - 244. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 18 is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] 16 revisions included in part. The national deputy of Magneki insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u94	I insist on taking this amendment fully into account. Because part of it will have no effect at all. I also want to ask Ukrainian citizens to pay attention to the behaviour of the Communist faction, which is very much on all screens, that it advocates the rights of the workers and the socially vulnerable. In fact, this bill deals with the restoration of the rights of socially vulnerable citizens. It's the cripples, it's the disabled, it's the pensioners, it's the Chernobyls. And we see a faction of Communists in unison with the Party of Regions just crippling their rights with today's vote. And so this is an illustration of the interest of communists -- not of socially vulnerable citizens, but of capitalists and oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u95	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 16 of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:15:32]] For-142 Against – 1, held – 20, did not vote 246. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 18 of the People's Deputy Suškević. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 21. [[B in m in s a l in]] The 19th? I'll give it to The 18th Amendment still has a national MP, the Pious. Turn on the microphone of the Pious People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u96	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! It's the Fatherland faction, Andrey the Magnificent. I would like to pay attention today, first of all, to the fact that the Party of Regions has ignored, in fact, all the amendments that have been made to this bill, which have been made by opposition, which at least brought it a little closer to the Ukrainian Constitution. In general, it is a disgraceful phenomenon when Ukrainian citizens, given an absolutely legal decision rendered in the name of Ukraine, are unable to execute it. In 2013, 158 million dollars were planned for the execution of court decisions. Just as much, by the way, was spent, if I'm not mistaken, on the squadrons of Victor Yanukovich's helicopter landing site in the Parkyard. So my amendment is to remove from the law essentially the indulgence that allows the Cabinet of Ministers to execute judicial decisions only within the limits they allow themselves, ignoring the Ukrainian judicial system. On the other hand, judicial decisions have been made for the present time of almost 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u97	I'm betting on the vote amendment number 18 of the People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:17:47]] For-141 Against - 1, held - 21, did not vote - 245. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 66, Vitaly Klicka is 24, Freedom is 34, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 17. Rejected Amendment No. 20. Ah, the 19th, People's Deputy Rosenco, 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u98	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. The 19 amendments, which are partially taken into account, came up with a very interesting situation. Aunt Sluz made the exact correct amendment, which consists of two parts, but the committee has gone and removed the second part, and left only the first part, which brings this bill without the second part to absurdity. So you can't leave the first part of the mucus amendment in this edit right now. So I ask you now to put the entire amendment of Auntie Jacob for confirmation and unfortunately not to support it. And then the first part will also be removed from this bill. Please place an amendment for confirmation and do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand? I'm putting to the vote amendment number 19 of People's Deputies of Tears for support. Please vote. [[11:19:50]] For-195 Against 3, held – 7, not voted – 189. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 21 of the people's MP, Tears, is under consideration. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u100	Aunt Tears, the Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u101	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We want to express the official position of the Fatherland faction on this bill. We voted in favour of this bill in the first reading on those conditions that were agreed upon in your office, Mr. Head. This law should ensure the enforcement of court decisions, not prohibit Ukrainians from receiving the funds they must legally receive from the State Budget on the basis of the court decisions rendered. The adoption of the bill does not have anything to do with European integration; rather, it contradicts the basic Ukrainian constitutional norm and the European Union’s rules on the obligation to enforce judicial decisions and that if a person receives funds and receives a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u104	.contravenes the basic European norms and norms of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is clearly stated that judicial decisions are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. We firmly refuse to support this bill, because this bill deprives millions of Ukrainians of the right to receive funds under judicial decisions, and the total debt of the State budget to these Ukrainians amounts to about 40 billion dollars. We demand a second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u105	Thank you. 21 Amendment. Well, we've been looking at 21 now, we'll be back by 20 if we have to. I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the people's MP, Tears, 21 amendments. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:48]] For-151 Against-0, held-21, didn't vote-235. The decision is not taken. The factions. We have 22 amendments left, this is the People's Deputy, it's rejected. And National MP Rosenko is asking for 20 amendments to support. So let us consider the rebuffed amendment of the Pious People’s Deputy. Please. An amendment of the Blessed One is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u106	Andrey the Pious, the Fatherland faction. Dear National Deputies! I'm pointing out that 22 amendments are trying at least to give our Ukrainians a little chance to see what kind of court decisions would be made. However, it is incumbent upon the Cabinet of Ministers to develop appropriate regulations. And this amendment was also rejected by the committee. Which once again confirms the statement made by the leader of the "Fatherland" faction. This is not a law on the enforcement of court decisions, this is a law on the non-execution of court decisions and indulgence, which is trying, in the form of Euro-Integration Projects, to knock out the Cabinet of Ministers on another violation and ignoring the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u107	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of the Pious People's Deputies. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:24:43]] For 155 Against-1, held-23, not 231. The decision is not taken. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. A proposal was made by the people's deputy, Rosenko, to make an amendment to the 20th. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u108	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Thank you for giving me your word. I'm not going to ask you any questions about supporting this amendment right now. There's only one thing I want to say. Indeed, it is now the case that the bill in such an editorial form, as the second reading has already been done, unfortunately does not give our citizens a chance to get a fair implementation of European courts and Ukrainian courts. We've come to the point where we're adopting the Law on the Enforcement of Judgments, in fact, these decisions can be blocked by our own hands. There are a number of outstanding issues, there are suggestions on how to get out of this stalemate. So now, clearly, we are not going to vote on this bill as a whole, but we also propose that we send this bill to read it again, find courage, compromise, take responsibility for our citizens and find a mechanism for enforcing court decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a proposal has been made for the People's Deputies of Rosenka to make an amendment to the 20th. You got it? Copy that. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, when an MP speaks, give me a chance to listen to him, but you don't. Well, that's not supposed to happen. Please. There are many questions, warnings under this law. It's a very important law. I ask you to sign up for one minute from the factions and then I'll put you to the vote. One minute from the factions. Please. I beg of you, National Deputy Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the Company faction, Simonenko. Well, strangely enough, another law has to be passed in order to enforce a court decision. It's just some wild situation that can't be considered here at all in the Supreme Council. And for you, honourable voters, I want to say what's going on here. One thing is being done, according to the oligarchs, is trying to adopt a law that will repeat everything that happened in 2011 when Afghans and Chernobyl stormed the Supreme Council. Today, they try to accept a standard with such spices. But there's money in the Cabinet of Ministers -- they're going to issue, there's no money -- no one's going to issue anything to you, Your Honor, according to the court's decisions. Hence, they remain silent about what the law foresees and try to talk about some of the amendments. The Company faction in 2011 was on guard against adopting this law, and thanks to our efforts, they did not adopt it. Today, they do not vote for their amendments, but they blame the Communists. So I, the honourable voters, want to confirm once again that we will never vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u111	Please, the faction of the Party of Regions, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Respectful colleagues, indeed, are extremely important, resonant, and related to the fate of many Ukrainian citizens. But taking into account the procedure of our Rules, we will now put it to the vote. What's going to be the result, we can't predict right now. But we can definitely apply that practice, Vladimir Vasilovich, which you have already introduced, which is effective. According to the results of the vote, if we don't have an agreement in the hall, to assemble factions leaders in our office, to hold a meeting. And since this law is part of the European package, let's agree on a way to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u113	The Fatherland faction, the national MP of Sikor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u114	I give the word Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u115	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I appeal to you once again on this bill and on European integration as a whole. We have no right to give the government of Ukraine the opportunity to falsify laws that are anti-European and put on them the name that this law is for the European Union. Well, in what European country might there be a law that allows the government not to execute the judicial decisions rendered by the country’s name? The government is trying to get us into an affair, and the government wants us to pay 40 billion debts that have now accumulated before the Ukrainians on pensions, wages and other social losses, and pay and cover it up as if it were a sign of the European Union. It's an anti-European law, it's a non-execution law, we can't support it, and your faction can't support it. Another reading is our requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u117	Honorable National MPs, Freedom Union, thoughts, national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u119	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u120	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Once again, I want to draw attention to the lie that is being told in the hall today. This law is not, does not refer to a packet of so-called "Fule list." This law is called upon by decisions of the European Court of Justice that imply that we do not have judicial decisions. And in fact, in this law, in order to have mechanisms in place for the enforcement of court decisions, it establishes a mechanism for the avoidance of the execution of a court decision. And the position of our faction is absolute that we will not vote in this way this law, which was voted in the second reading of the amendments. And our position is that in order to solve this problem, we need to send it back to read again. And I want to tell the Communists that we don't have to leave! Because you're not voting for the social protection of citizens, you're voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u121	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Raupov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u122	National MP Rustam Raupov. Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u123	Paul Rosenko has a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u124	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I also want to give a reply to a political power that is fighting the oligarchs in words, and it is up to them to vote on all the issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, I want to tell you that the strike faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have a previous call. When you agreed silently, you sat and remained silent, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted an anti-national document that stopped the execution of all social court decisions. Now we're trying to find ways to unlock this law to unlock the execution of court decisions. And it's our activity today and the impact faction to give hope and money to specific people who have won social affairs and who today don't get their social benefits. So let's actually do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u125	Thank you. They heard you. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u126	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Dear colleagues, the one who travels around the county knows that in the trio of the very main questions that our electorate asks: this is the Heritage Act, when we put it into the hall and put it to a vote so that people don't buy houses, land and so on, it's privatizing land near the house where thousands of people pay. And the third is when the process of paying the children of war, the black people, the Afghans of all costs begins. So I'm sure that according to the settings of today's hall, it's clear that this law will not be passed. So I'm going to put it on the second reading again. And yet, in your office, faction leaders have found compromise. It's not just under Euro-Integration Laws that you've got to stick your stuff out that doesn't satisfy Ukrainian citizens, but it's really time to start paying off these funds that people are provided with law and judges' decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u127	Thank you. The discussion is over. All those who wanted to speak. No more sayings, no more talking, no more talking. The discussion is over. Dear national MPs, a very important law. So I think there were different thoughts here. Let's take a decision now, all together, to send to the committee for a second reading. To consult among faction leaders. We'll make it today. We'll come back and vote today. So I put to the vote, please pay attention to everyone, return to the committee, shorten the terms of the review of the second reading, hold consultations and return to this room to vote in favour of this law. People's deputies would like to vote for that. [[11:35:33]] For 361 Against 30, held – 1, not voted – 26. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 192, Fatherland – 76, Vitalia Klicka – 33, Freedom Association – 34, Ukraine’s Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. The draft Act (No. 2105) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition). Reported to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, a respected colleague, was working on the 2105 bill for the second reading. I would like to remind you that the changes to the Customs Tariff Act that have been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out their commitments to the World Trade Organization for this year. I want to remind you that in the first reading of the vote, there was agreement between the factions to remove some of the positions, I'm going to tell the stenographer which, and the committee carried out this decision, along with the Supreme Council's apparatus. This is about three positions. First, the reduction in full import duties throughout the Customs Tariff is done. Second, the increase in import duty rates on individual types of metallurgy, so we left the current rate of 5 percent. Third, setting a zero rate of duty on polyvinyl chloride. We've also left existing standards and agreed with the authors of the proposals that are in the table, that we don't, more specifically, have already registered a separate bill separating these codes and making a separate decision so that we don't break the structure that was adopted in the first reading. As for the additions that came from the national deputies. A total of 29 suggestions came, of which 9 were taken into account, 20 were rejected. All those proposals that do not conform to Ukraine’s protocols with the World Trade Organization are rejected in most ways. Three suggestions are included. I'll tell you what the propositions are right now. An inclusive proposal to reduce to zero the rate of duty per section to railway wagons that are not produced in Ukraine. These are the offerings of Kunchenk, Dunaev, the Ingredient, Kinaha, and other national deputies. The other one. This is a proposal by the Landik People's Deputy to increase the rate of duty on parts of water heaters, from zero to 10 percent for those who are producers of Ukraine, to protect a little bit of the rate raised. Again, within the scope of the WTO agreements. And the third. This is a question that relates to the reduction to zero of the rate of duty for raw materials and paper equipment, from 5 percent to zero percent. It is also to protect its own manufacturer for that raw material and equipment that is not produced in Ukraine. Proposals made by the national deputies of the King and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u129	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u130	The rest is done. There's going to be another discussion, but it's already been amended, we're going to go through 28 of Vasuk's and Sold's, but it's already in the text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering amendments to the law. — Registration No. 2105a. Amendment No. 3 of the Smythuch People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. Amendment number 4. National MP Smitsch, do you insist? No, it's not. Amendment number 5. National MP Sikor, do you insist? I can't see. Where's the hand? Got it. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u132	I insist on dividing polyvinyl chloride into two codes, returning to rates in 2009. Because our 3,000 people, Ukrainian citizens, are working for the Carpatnaftohimim company, and the introduction of a zero-performing PCB into the suspension PCB has led people to lose their jobs. On Tuesday, September 10th, the Prime Minister was there to open the factory. Pressed the button, everything looked really good, like the factory was working. The factory doesn't actually work because the zero bet on the suspended PVC has left 3,000 people out of work. And I'm asking you to consider my amendment, I'm going to the Party of the Regions, I'm going to the faction, I'm going to the faction of the Communist Party to accept it, the Prime Minister has promised, at the factory, to enter this zero, to introduce 6.5 percent of the PVC. I understand there's a bill registered. But as long as there's a bill, people won't be able to buy a piece of bread for their kids. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u133	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u134	I said in my statement about this question, and it was decided on the committee that a bill would be registered. It is registered separately – 3284 (National MP Sikori), who was supported yesterday by a committee, national deputies, where it is necessary to divide these two codes into two. The first is going to be polyvinyl chloride in an emulsion way. The second, which will be 6.5 percent, and the first, zero, other positions that apply to polyvinyl chloride. So in the text, it's not technically wrong, it's incorrect, and it's impossible. We need to divide these two codes in a separate bill, agree with the Ministry of Economics in that time, and draft this bill for next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u135	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 5 of the People's MP Sikori. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:43:17]] For-138 Against 2, held – 24, not voted – 245. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputies of Dirov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Dirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the same question that has just been answered. I would just like to draw your attention to the following: according to the protocol for Ukraine's entry into the SATA, there is a provision for the details of PCBs, code 390441000 for the so-called "emulsion PCBs", code 3904100000 and another code 3904100090, which includes, inter alia, the suspension PCBs. So this doesn't deny the WTO protocol at all. We could do this right now and we could do this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u137	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u138	Thank you. This is an interconnected amendment. I want to remind you once again that in the first reading, when we voted in favour of this law, these rules were removed at the initiative of your faction. And after the vote, the text that we got in the first reading ran out of polyvinyl chloride. So once again, this is a question that we've come up with, we've decided on the committee, and we're going to work quickly with a separate bill, and what's more, there's a need to reconcile this process with the Ministry of Economics -- the division of codes and the allocation of appropriate eight-digit codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u139	The vote is amended as number 7 of the People's Deputy Dirov. Please vote. [[11:45:23]] For 128 Against – 1, held – 22, not voted – 259. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment No. 8 of the People’s Deputy Dirov is under consideration. Are you insisting? Yes, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u140	I insist on the amendment and ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u141	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 8 of the People's Deputy Dirov. Please vote. [[11:46:20]] For-125 Against - 1, holding - 22, not voting - 262. The decision is not taken. The factions. The amendment number nine, which is rejected by the committee, is considered. People's MP Zubko. Don't insist. Amendment 10, People's Deputy Zubko, is under consideration. Don't insist. Amendment 13, People's Deputy Zubko, is under consideration. Don't insist. 15th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Sikor. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u142	I insist. I give the word of Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u143	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a request for you and for the head of the committee. This is one of the integration laws, this is the fulfilment of our obligations both to the European Union in order to sign a deeper free trade zone and to the World Trade Organization. That's why we're going to support this bill. But I ask that the committee head for the next plenary week increase to 6.5 percent of the import duty that we've already talked about after the PMC suspension. Carpatnaftochim - 3,000 people may lose their jobs. So let's put this in and vote next plenary week. And under that condition, we're going to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u145	I'm listening. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u146	Thank you, Arsenius Petrovich. That is how we arranged for the committee to meet, and representatives of the various factions came to that agreement. So this proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u147	This can be done in a second reading and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for your attention! Have a seat. National MP Vasuk, please. What an amendment, call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u148	Amendment number 28. I'm addressing all the national MPs. It may sound funny, but it's not funny. There's an increasing tax on diapers. Today, we are trying to help young families to give birth. All the goods are so precious to children, and we're still a product called the "good of the first need" we can seriously travel without taking this amendment into account. So I think on the diapers let's not make any money. It's kids, it's our young moms' hands, it's kind of a relief for their hard work of looking after the baby. And I'm asking all the deputies to support this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u149	Please, committee. Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! This is especially true of female colleagues. Indeed, such an initiative is from the feminine part of Parliament. And I understand that they're more involved in this issue. And the proposal to put the bet from 5 to 0 is logical. Because it's going to be cheaper, this product, it's just diapers. On the other hand, it might be Ukrainian. But we analyzed it. He's not here today. It may someday be. But I'm sure when we do, we'll make other proposals. The committee decided to reject the law. But I would recommend supporting the women's part of our parliament, going to meet. This is Oksana Prodan, Vashtuk and other women national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u151	Do you insist on voting the amendment? After this amendment? Well, why are you pulling your hand? Let's deal with one thing. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 28. This is the National Deputy of Sales and the National Deputy of Vaschuk. People's deputies, please vote. Vote. [[11:51:36]] For 370. Against-0, held-0, not voted-43. Decision taken. Factions, factions. Turn on the microphone of the Landik People's Deputy. Please, have a seat. And we listen to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! What I wanted to say. Amendments 22 and 23. I'm speaking for myself. What our committee has proposed today, we support it. And it will be supported. But I want to make a warning about what's here. Today we're working at the S.O.T. and Russia is working at the S.O.T. Russia stood against us today, and they have it legally, by 20 to 22 percent for their production. They are clearly protecting their manufacturer. We're not competitive in refrigerators, stoves, or industrial refrigerators, and so on. So I agreed, thinking that this is the law that we're going to sign after European integration. But I very much ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, we discussed this at a committee meeting yesterday, to write down now in the Supreme Council what they will record, and I say to you, "Limit the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u153	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u154	I've got two minutes. "Demand the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to entrust the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade with the immediate dispatch to the headquarters of the WTO of authorized representatives of the Ministry for the harmonization of the customs procedure for goods, the identical procedure applied in the Russian Federation. In the monthly period, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will present proposals for the establishment of rates of duty equivalent to the rates of duty that operate in the territory of the Russian Federation by ensuring that such proposals are reconciled with the WTO." And the third. Together with the National Bank of Ukraine, develop and implement an active programme of government credit support for manufacturers. So I'm asking that it, it is, that it actually goes to the Cabinet of Ministers, it's written down. And the amendment that I propose again, the Homutinnik proposes that I support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u155	Thank you. I'm asking the Ministry of Economics. Do you support Landik? Write back. Turn on the deputy minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u156	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u157	The deputy is Maximus, the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u158	Negotiations with the World Trade Organization are conducted on a case-by-case basis. So we can't compare the bets that are in Russia, the bets that are in Ukraine. Questions about individual goods are indeed there, and today the government is already doing this work. Now, as you know, a list of products is being sent, a list of proposals that we are ready to discuss with our trading partners. In principle, we do this work, and that's how we do it. So I think it's going to be a waste of time, but we're ready to do this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u159	We support Landik's proposal. Should we? Do we support Landik's offer? I'm willing to sign it with a separate protocol. Yeah, right? Who else? Please, National Deputy Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, Vitaly Yuriovich! Regarding this amendment, I want to say that group of 70 "Glasses and Products." This Customs tariff will also contribute to the development of glass fibre products in the country, protect the interests of national manufacturers, allow the entrepreneur to increase production volumes, significantly reduce the pace of dumped imports, facilitate import. It will significantly increase the export volume of Ukrainian producers, and so forth. The main consumers of production in Ukraine are entrepreneurs in the area of construction materials. The product imported into Ukraine on the basis of the dumping ingredient. It has a very serious impact on the stability of production. And because of its low quality, it also affects the adjacent processing sectors. On the basis of the above, I would like to take into account the proposal to amend Law 2105a and set and customs tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u161	What's the offer? I'm asking the National MP to ask Smithuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u162	I'm going to comment on that. According to the proposal proposed by the Dunaev People’s Deputy to reduce from 10 to 0 rates of duty on glass and glass products by five codes. There are some codes of our own that produce the codes, so we sent a letter to the Ministry of Economics and Industrial Policy, but we haven't been able to get an answer yet. So we suggest that the author discuss this issue separately with the Ministry and follow a separate bill so as not to disrupt the balance between producers and processors of the product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u163	National MP Smitsch, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u164	I have to Vitalia Yurievich and the opposition as the head of the committee involved that I have amended this bill to the effect that all this tax, the customs tariff should be imposed on fish products imported into us from Europe and from other countries, and the tax should be lifted for food imports. Why did I ask that question? You remember that we've adopted the State Program, we've adopted the Aquaculture Act, we've reduced procedural questions about the possibility of increasing production of products, fish products, in Ukraine. So we encouraged the legislative process to produce this product in Ukraine. And of course, today we're doing the opposite, which is that we have a zero rate for imports of fish products, and we have a ten percent rate for food. So I thought it would be appropriate to do it the other way around to stimulate the development of the fisheries sector in Ukraine. So I'd like the committee to pay attention to these issues in the further process.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u165	Vitaly Juryevich, Vitaly Juryevich! Did you hear the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u166	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u167	Showtime, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u168	Thank you. In the first reading, there was a proposal that was voted by the people’s deputies all to reduce the rate on seafood from 20 percent to 15 percent by different codes. Well, it's about those seafood that aren't produced, they're not grown in Ukraine, and so on. The garbage offers 13 codes to raise the duty rate to 10 percent for certain fish and fish products. But this position is contrary to the WTO’s requirements for this year. So if we're going to go along with the protocols that we have, this proposal doesn't match them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u169	Questions. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I certainly support the bill concerning European integration. But what I want to stress is that within the STO, we have the ability to view codes by some types of goods, especially by the groups that we produce. I mean 84 groups of goods that produce boilers, cars, equipment, such as trucks, taps, and so on. These are groups of goods that are of high value added. So I would ask for a separate protocol assignment, as it was said, to introduce a bill on "Carpatnaftohimim" next week. Also, consider the issues of protecting our machine - building industries within the scope of the possibilities offered by WTO arrangements. And consider such a bill. And if we reduce the rates by several thousand codes of goods, by a few dozen codes of goods that are produced in Ukraine, in the possibilities provided by the WTO, increase the rate code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u171	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. May I have your attention, national deputies, please prepare for decision-making. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2105a) amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (new edition) to be adopted in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:02:04]] For 384, versus 0, held-1, not a 27. Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking the faction leaders, we'll discuss the matter with me when I make the 14th hour rulings. I'm asking that we be determined by Law 2399 at 2400 hours. Break until 12 o'clock 30 minutes, and we'll be looking at personnel issues by the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down, because there will be many votes now. We will consider the question of the election and release of judges. I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Nikola Grigorovitch Pinchuk. You know the order that we have: we're considering the ruling, the judges who have no comments, I'm going to put it to a vote, to whom there's a remark, and then we're going to consider when we've considered all the decisions. Do you have a deal? The Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges No. 326 is under consideration. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u173	3261.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u174	I see that the sector is about 3261, and that's 3261. Are they different? The first one is 326-1, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u175	3261.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u176	What kind of decision is that? Got it. That's 3261 in the ruling. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u177	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, honored guests! Let me announce the draft regulations that Parliament should consider today. Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 3261).
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u178	I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u179	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Jeromin Anatoly Vasilovich, Masliy Vladimir Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Swincitsk Olen Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyrovograd District of Tkachenko Ludmila Yakovna; The Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Tichuk Natalija Alexiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the District of Ternopil of Swachei Igor Mihajlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Fedorov Natalija Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Ivanenko Igor Volodymyrovich; Rovinj City Court of Luhansk, Marina Alexandre Viktorovich Your Honor, let me inform you that Judge Fedorov Natalia Alexandrovna did not attend today's plenary session, in connection with her employment in criminal matters. In this connection, she sent a telegram to the Supreme Council asking that the matter be heard within one month.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u180	Fedorov's Natalia Alexandrovna is missing. What are the comments of the deputies? Please, National Deputy Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u181	It's Vitaly Call's Faction, Roman Romanyuk. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The position of our faction regarding the election of judges in Parliament remains unchanged. We will vote and support judges who have no action and are considered in accordance with the law. I have one question for the chairman. Dear Mikolo Grigorovovich, please inform us of a situation for today that has not been addressed with regard to the judges we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u182	Thank you, Roman Sergiyovich. Let me answer that question this way. Our commission is working too transparently. We're trying to work as hard as we can with the people's deputies. I inform you, thank you for asking, Roman Sergiyovich, that there are no pending complaints against the judges who have been brought before Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u183	National deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u184	I ask for a temporary removal of the name of Swinsky Olina Petrovna, because it was my complaint about her actions, particularly regarding the trial of a dispute in the city of Vasilkov concerning a building on the street of Sunshine,5 which became known throughout Ukraine when, instead of the residents who bought the apartments there, my appeal to the Higher Qualifying Commission was brought to justice by judges, prosecutors and employees of the Vasilk Region, my complaint to the Higher Qualifying Commission was not answered at all. So I'd like you to withdraw the question of the appointment of the Swinsky Helen of Petrovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u185	Thank you. There'll be an explanation later. Now we're excluding Fedorov Natalia Alexandrovna and Svinic Olen Petrovna from this list. No more remarks, I'll put it to the vote. May I have your attention, national deputies? I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree No. 3261 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:42:30.]] For 226 Okay. 226 versus 0, held up to 5, not voting 164. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 161, Parenthood - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 26, Freedom – 0, Company – 27, non-fractional – 12. Decision 3261-1 is being considered. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u186	For the purpose of this ruling, please select judges previously elected on an indefinite basis to serve as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Mr. Kostin Sergiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye District of Potter Maria Sergiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd District of Ivanov Demyan Leonidovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Ohrimenko Natalia Ivanovna; Kiev’s Court of Appeal Vlasov Yuri Leonidovich, Kopitov Olen Sergiyevna, Samsin Roman Igorovich, Sergija Romanović’s Station, Eugen Juryovich’s Chaptal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u187	Does the MPs have a point? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (3261-1) on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:36]] For 243 Against 0, holding back, 8, not voting, 145. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 171, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 27, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 17. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges (number 3261-2) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u188	According to this project, please select previously elected judges on an open-ended basis: the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of the Coastal Region of Alexander Yuriovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luvi district of Vaniv, Oleg Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Kopetz Oleg Volodymyrovich, Kotelevski Ruslan Ivanovich, Kravčer Julian Ivanovich; Dnipropetrov’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Mezenzev Evgen Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u189	Is there a note? None. I'm betting on draft decision 3261-2 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:46:17]] For 236 Against 0, held – 6, not voted – 154. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 170, Fatherland – 0, Vitaly Klicka – 23, Freedom – 0, Company – 29, non-fractional – 14. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges (number 3261-3) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u190	According to the draft of this ruling, I ask you to elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis to serve as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Yakovlev, Victoria Sergiyevna; The Vinicki Administrative Court of Appeal, Andriy Grigorovitch; Dnipropetrov's Economic Court of Appeal, Kosjeev Igor Mihajlovich; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal, Popkov Denis Alexandrovich, Sgar Ella Valerievna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u191	Any notes? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 3261-3) on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:47:57]] For 243 Against-0, held-7, did not vote 149. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 178, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 24, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 14. There is a ruling (number 3261-4) on the election of judges. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u192	According to the draft ruling, you have been brought to your attention for the appointment of judges to the termless judge: The Lenin District Court of Dnipropetrovska Shavulu Victoria Stanislavna; The Berislav District Court of the Kirilenko District, Marina Alexiyevna; Lviv District Administrative Court Gulkevich Irena Zinovievna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u193	Is there a note? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (3261-4) on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:28]] For 244 Against 0, held-8, did not vote 148. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 173, Fatherland – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 27, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 14. Draft Decree 3261-5 is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u194	According to the draft ruling, I ask that you choose Lunar Sergio Viktorovich as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherniewec Region on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u195	People's deputy Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, last week I asked to postpone this candidacy. And why? Mr. Lunin was the head of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In 2011, the deputy attorney general of Ukraine filed a criminal case concerning the head of the court of Lunin. In addition to the judges ’ premises, a search was carried out by the Ukrainian Security Service in the court’s service facilities, and secret documents were found outside the premises suitable for handling secret documents. Moreover, a server that detects all the results of all court video cameras has been removed during the search process.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u197	Finish up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u198	He was admitted to a dormitory for foreign students at the University of Medicine by officers of the Lounin House Court. The criminal case was violated by the Attorney General only after the intervention of the governors of the Ukrainian judiciary and the Dominion of Lunin had written a statement and been dismissed from the court’s office. This is not the only case in his biography. When he was serving as a judge of the military court, criminal cases were not once violated because of the disappearance of the evidence. Mr. Lunan was given illegally, for which the garrison’s turn of dwellings were illegal. Next. In 2003, 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u199	Please, can you give me the information? Mikolo Grigorovitch, please, this is the last name in the book, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u200	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself have heard from the mouth of the National MP that the actions of Luna, concerning which the criminal case has been opened, have been duly assessed by the prosecution. Having come to the conclusion that there is no pattern of crime in his actions. People can say things, people can say things. But the facts show what they are witnessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand the information? I'm betting on a draft ruling (registration number 3261-5) on the election of the judge on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:54:00]] For 209 Against 17, held – 30, not voted – 143. The decision is not taken. Draft regulation (number 3261-6) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u202	The proposal, according to this ruling, is brought to your attention to select judges on an untimely basis: The Winning District Court of the Administrative Krapivinski Natal Leonidivna; Kharkiv District Administrative Court Kuhar Marina Dmitrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u203	Is there a note? Please, the People's Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u204	Volodymyr Vasilovich, please remove Krapivinski Natal Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u205	It's been removed. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u206	Vladimir Yavorowski. Please remove Mrs. Cook temporarily. I'll explain why at the end when we remove it from this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, there are only two names and two have already been removed. Who do you want to delete? We'll come back and then I'll give you my word. The draft Law (3261-7) on the election of judges is under consideration. Please vote. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u208	According to the draft of this Order, it is proposed to elect judges on an indefinite basis: Romance Eugene Yuriovich as Judge of the Žitomir District Administrative Court; The economic court of the Kharkiv district of Rilova Victoria Viacheslavna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u209	Any notes? National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u210	Volodymyr Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u211	Yavorowski, please. Yavorowski's national deputy, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u212	I'm asking you to remove Rylov's temporary candidature. I'll explain why it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u213	Okay. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u214	Mr. Chairman, regarding Rylova, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u215	Please, do you want to report to Rylova right away? That's not how he explained it. Let's erase, let's make a decision on Romancenk. I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree (registration number 3261-7) on the election of Judge Romancenk Eugenia Juryevich on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[12:57:12]] For 255 Against-0, held-9, not a vote of 137. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 183, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 26, Freedom - 0, Companies - 30, non-fractional - 16. We will consider Ril’s Victoria Viacheslavina later. Draft Decree (3261-8) is under consideration. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u216	According to the draft ruling, it is proposed that John’s Sergio Mikolaiovich, previously elected on an indefinite basis, be appointed judge of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u217	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (registration number 3261-8) on the selection of the judge on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[12:58:25]] For 259. Against 0, held-9, not a 133 vote. Decision taken. The factions. There is a report of Order (3261-9) on the election of judges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u218	Please choose Capinos Oksana Valentinovna as Judge of the Zitomir District Administrative Court on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u219	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote of the Order (number 3261-9) on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:59:23]] For 256 Against 0, held-6, did not vote 139. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (3261-10) decision on the election of a judge is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u220	Please select Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna to serve as Judge of the Central District Court of Mikolayeva on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u221	Please, Dzardanov, National Deputy. Please. The Communist faction, the national deputy of the Dzardanov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time we've turned Gretchen away from being admitted on an uninterrupted basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have known the work of the Central Court for more than 30 years, and every year the quality of the work of the judges deteriorates. In time, the very young mother of Gretchen was heartlessly treated by the same young mother. I complained to the President of the District Court, but she fears her colleagues less than the President. Moreover, no one has called in a month, although I know a lot of judges. There is no explanation for why the president, the district attorney, will return the district prosecutor, I know Ivanichenko Anatolia Bogdanović, the principal lawyer, I know the situation in Flagman, who robbed tens of hundreds of people per million. Nevertheless.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u223	Now translate it into English, because I have not heard it. I didn't hear what you said. Here they shout, here they come. What am I supposed to do? I didn't hear. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you not to scream. What offer should I make? Kolechenko, you translate. Turn on the wheelhouse microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u224	I request that, in accordance with the Rules, the faction of “Freedom” be deprived of its words and that it be prohibited to visit Parliament, this is a requirement of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are the fools listening to?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u225	Koleszenko asked me under the Rules to contact you, don't shout! I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (3261-10) decree on the election of Judge Svetlana Ivanovna. Please vote. [[13:02:57]] For-188. Against – 2, held – 34, did not vote – 275. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 178, Fatherland 0, Vitalia Klicka 0, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 0, non-fractional 10. The draft Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (3261-11) is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u226	In accordance with this draft ruling, I ask you to elect Szydlovski Viktor Bronislavovich, who was previously elected on an uninterrupted basis, as Judge of the Žitomir Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u227	Is there a note? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (3261-11) on the election of the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:04:11]] For 248 Against – 1, held – 7, did not vote – 143. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order (3261-12) on the election of a judge is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u228	Please select Majbeard Svetlana Mikolayovna to serve as Judge of the Czernigów District Court of the Chernigiv Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u229	Is there a note? None. I'm betting on a draft Decree 3261-12 on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:05:13]] For 249 Against 0, held – 8, not voted – 142. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree (3261-13) on the election of judges is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u230	Please select Dmitruk Natalija Yuriovna to serve as Judge of the Bologna District Court of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u231	No notes? I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (3261-13) on the election of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:06:06]] For 241 Against-0, held – 10, did not vote – 143. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order (number 2194a) on the selection of a judge is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u232	Please choose Chumuk Nadia Alexiyevna, who was previously elected as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u233	Please, who's got a note? Who? No notes? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Ordinance (2194a-4) on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:07:19]] For 246 Against 0, holding back - 6, not voting - 147. Decision taken. The factions. We have three rulings. Three decrees. Here we go. One? Come on. The decree is considered 3261. Leadish Olena Petrovna, Kyiv County Court of Appeal Is she there? She's here. Who asked the question is Ariev. Did you report it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u234	I had once mentioned a decision that had become known and, in particular, even in journalistic investigations into the Sun House, 5 when, instead of those who had purchased housing there, there were other references. And I was on two occasions, and I never got a decision. If it's lost somewhere, I can re-send my appeals to the Higher Qualifying Commission, and please until they're considered, postpone the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u235	Olena Petrovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u236	The thing is, in fact, I had three cases in charge of the apartments that were in the house of the Sun 5 in the city of Vasilk. I don't know what it's about, what it's about. One of the cases mentioned was sent to another court on the basis that the judge of our court was responsible, and two cases were dealt with by me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u237	Thank you. Mikolo Grigorovich, what's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u238	Literally there is no outstanding disciplinary action on the qualifying committee on yesterday’s day. This matter has also been considered. The reply to the national deputy was given in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u239	I see. Shall we vote? I bet on the vote to elect the judge without a due time, Helen Petrovna Svincick, the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region. Please vote. [[13:10:24]] For 227 Against 7, held – 30, not voted – 134. Decision taken. The factions. Olena Petrovno, sit down, you've been supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u240	Fedorov's Natala Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u241	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u242	Oh, we don't have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u243	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u244	Let's move on. 3261-6 is under review. Two candidatures: Krapovinski Natala Leonidivna. Where? Is it? Where is he? Yeah, there's Natalie Leonidovna. Who raised that question? Please, the People's Deputy of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to abstain from voting for this judge, based on the fact that this judge systematically makes unjust decisions that not only conflict with the requirements of law and common sense, but also do material harm to the state. This judge covers the actions of unscrupulous taxpayers, resulting in the State’s failure to pay the budget. I can give you a few examples, but I'm going to stop at two of them. In 2012, she declared invalid and canceled the tax notice by means of a decision that recognized her financial obligations and the application of sanctions against one of her limited - liability societies. Already this year, he's canceled his tax orders to conduct a exit check on the Breeding Deeds Society. Thus, in fact, it prevents tax inspection from exercising its direct powers. Let's move on. This judge reinstates the work of civil servants, militiamen, who have stained themselves and made hard decisions on them. In addition, the judge removes the arrests from the cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u246	Thank you. Natalia Leonidina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u247	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies and colleagues! I can explain that the commission recommended me on an uninterrupted basis. I carried out all my decisions, decisions carefully checked, because all the decisions were made by the Higher Qualifications Commission. I was tested under article 53 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. All the decisions I made under the law were made. I tried to pick it up. All decisions are made by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u248	Thank you. People's Deputy Capplin. One minute of yours. And that's the idea. Mikoli Grigorovitch's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u249	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies, our colleagues, among whom there are just as many former and active entrepreneurs, and in fact entrepreneurs. And so to draw the attention of other citizens watching the broadcast (radio and television broadcast) of today’s session. Not only does this judge make right decisions by protecting Ukrainian taxpayers from the meals that are actually imposed on them today by MinZDoh. So our faction will support the judge, and we call for the same support from our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u250	Mikolo Grigorovich, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u251	Dear National Deputies! All of these facts are carefully checked. The judge was invited to a meeting of the Higher Qualifications Commission. Each of these facts has been investigated. If you're offering to re-check it, we can check it out. But other facts, if there are no future complaints, well, there are no violations of her actions. This is for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u252	Dear National Deputies! There are different thoughts. Come on, let them take another look and we'll make this decision later. Let's do this. I'll bet you a vote if you don't agree. I'm betting on the election of Judge Krapivnicki Natali Leonidivna on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[13:16:02]] For 230 Natalie Leonid, the MPs have supported you. For 230, against 2, held-19, did not vote-145. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 24, Vitalia Klicka - 5, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 15. The candidate for the Cook of Marina Dmitrovna is under consideration. There she is. Please, national MP, one minute, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. The main argument why I propose to postpone the consideration of this issue is that I literally got a very well-founded package of documents yesterday, where there are no, let's say, insults to the court's decision. And where the judge's work was analyzed. And most of all, the thing that got me, I'll tell you. That's when I got the information that the Kharkiv Court has this one nest of cooks. Uncle works as head of the Court of Appeal, that's his daughter-in-law, that's his niece. His daughter - in - law also worked in court, his son worked in the prosecutor’s office, and as a result of the scandal, he was forced to scrape all the way up to Suma. But once again, it's emotion. But I'm asking you very much, I'll hand you all these documents, analyze them, make decisions, and then we'll make a final decision. It's about Mrs. Kuhar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u254	Mikola Grigorovich, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u255	As the National MP put it, the complaint came to him literally yesterday. So we didn't check this complaint, maybe check the similar complaints that were before. But we didn't check that complaint. So I'm going to propose that we withdraw the nomination, send it to the commission, we'll check it out and we'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u256	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u257	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, I have received several letters from Kharkivščina, where citizens of Kharkivščina are indignant that we are engaged in political pressure on judges. And as far as Marina Dmitrovna is concerned, she works within the framework of the existing law and the Constitution. And you don't have to politically pressure and compromise this person. Let us support it and allow it to continue to work, to serve the law, the Constitution and the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u258	What's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u259	Proposal to vote, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u260	I'll be with you in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u261	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, honourable deputies, I address you. The candidate we're looking at right now is the niece of the head of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal. Honorable citizens, whether your children, if you have no mud, have no hairy hands, have no money, or can your children become judges, become prosecutors, become ministers, MPs. No! No! And if the judge's uncle is the head of the court, please, the nephew of the judge today, he will be in charge tomorrow. Cease the Cuneiform! Stop the family in the judicial system, in the prosecutorial system, in the system of public authorities! A simple child from a village can't get out of town. And if you have a dad, Mom, a hairy hand, please, everything in your life is on your hands. Stop this symbiosis and family life! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u262	It was an offer to put it to a vote. That's why I'm voting for the election of Judge Marina Dmitrovna Kuhar on an uninterrupted basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:20:44]] For 215 Against 12, held – 29, not voted – 140. Decision taken. The factions. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yeah, and one more thing, right? Kharkiv County’s Master’s Court of Rilova Victoria Viacheslavna She is present at our meeting. National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u263	For the first time I've seen this person, I've never known her. That's why there's nothing personal here, yeah, nothing. So I got on it, that's, by the way, a very solid argument. And I would also like the committee to consider, and the Council of Justice, to consider those complaints. Once again, they are very objective and very deep. Besides, of course, I'm surprised. I'm asking you to put off today, not vote for her, but what's surprising? That it is the same, it turns out, belongs to the same nest that Oleg Lazko talked about and I was talking about. She worked as an assistant to Vasil Kuhar, and it's actually the same team. Let him take another look at the committee, yes. And then we're going to solve that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u264	I beg of you, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, I have such an offer that we do not turn Parliament into a court of law, yes, to stop, well, just a senseless pressure on the judicial system. You know, well, when there are actually complaints and facts, when MPs operate on any kind of data, here, we can still look at something with you. But when it is said that someone does not like his relatives and someone does not like him at all, it is not a fact that we do not vote. Let's move away in principle from the European standards that we talk about very much in the session room. Under European standards, no European Parliament is at all discussing the candidature of judges, because it is only a discussion and is already a pressure on the judicial system, because there are special judicial bodies. And now we're facing one of the leaders of such an organ that we have to tell us whether there's a point to judges or not. And I ask Parliament to support this candidature in case. If there are no such remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u266	A replica? Come on, Yavorowski with a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u267	I'm giving a specific example that I'm taking from these complaints that came to me. Out of the 496 court decisions rendered by Ms. Rilva, 241 decisions, half of them have been annulled. Who is this judge? The main argument here is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u268	Dear National Deputies, Yavorowski made an offer to entrust the Higher Qualifications Committee with the consideration of the complaints that are and then to determine. Let's agree to that. Shall we go along with this? We agreed, we dropped the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Should we get laid? Okay. Everyone disagreed. Then I'll put it to a vote. I would like to vote on the election of the judge on an untimely basis in the Rila Victoria of Viachaslavina. People's deputies, please vote. We all have a friendly vote. [[13:25:05]] For 226 Against 23, held 34, not 113. Decision taken. Victoria Viacheslavina, the MPs supported you. The factions. Region-189, Parenthood-0, Vitaly Calla 0, Freedom-0, Company 29, non-faction-8. The questions have been considered. Let us congratulate the judges whom we have chosen today and wish them fruitful work. Thank you and we'll move on. Please, have a seat. I'll give the floor to the national deputy of Shevchenk. Sit down, let's listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u269	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, Your Honor, I apologize for the need to pay attention to the violation of the Rules. In the final vote, two national deputies voted in favour of two. These are our colleagues Kolluzhny and our colleague Oneshenko. So I think the situation is very unpleasant, but I think we can fix it with a successful vote if there really are voices in the room. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, we ask that the final question be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, where's the national deputy, Muluzhny? Sit down, I'll turn on your microphone, and then Oneshenko. Please turn the Muggle on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u271	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe that the "Freedom" gentlemen can scream anything, but I'm actually here in the hall and that's why it's provocation, and I'm asking you not to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u272	You're not letting me figure this out, I'm moving on. Then give your word, let him say it, and I'll listen. I can't hear him. I ask you again, People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u273	I don't know what the question is. This is Deputy Slugny next to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u274	I beg of you, the People's Deputy. That's what you're telling me. It's slippery. Who's standing there?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u275	What do you want to hear, good afternoon. I'm here, Heller's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u276	There's no one to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u277	Did you vote for two or something? Who did you vote for? [[B in m in s a l in]] How is it to put it to a vote without having to figure it out? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov! I can see they're just stalling here. I will now put to the vote to continue the work of the session today until the issues are fully considered. Have a seat. I'll break it off, we'll figure it out, and I'll let you know, and I can't do anything else. I have to figure out why I vote. Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. Have a seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, where is this decree? Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll take your seats, I'll put the matter to the vote. I ask you to vote in person. And I ask you, I will now put the vote to continue the session. Today we will not consider the laws that we have agreed upon. Don't stop working. Yes, may I have your attention, national deputies? I'm betting on the vote to come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] How? We have to vote. That's how we put it. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. I bet you all will vote, to vote on the appointment of Judge Rílové Victoria Vijechaslavina to serve as judge on an indefinite basis, to vote on the matter. Vote. [[13:34:12]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it, and you didn't want to vote. Now, listen. You didn't want to vote. Come on, guys, let's go! The question of the release of judges is being considered. Yes, come back! Yes! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, yes! I invite the head of the High Council of Justice, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović, to report. Let's get this over with, and then I'll give you a word. I'm going back to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked questions to vote, and you didn't vote, and now you're accusing me. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is it that everyone understands and you don't understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable National Deputies, Judge Rilova Victoria Viacheslavina is not elected as Judge of the Kharkiv District Economic Court. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] Have a seat. Let us consider the question of the release of judges. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u278	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to section 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth article, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100 and 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, has examined the matter of the dismissal of judges under general conditions and has decided to make appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Judges find out the reality of their will. There is no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Bim Magdalene Evgenyevna, in relation to her resignation application; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Anatoly Josephovich, in connection with the application for resignation; By getting Olga Antonovna to file a resignation application; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, King Michael Pilipovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Jacobenko Ludmila Grigorovna in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Petrizin John Pavlovich, in connection with the submission of a notice of resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Basov Tetjana Andriyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Chef Aleksija Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Romanian Pavel Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Lesov Valentina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir District of Tkachenka Vladimir Leonidovic, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Néciporenko Jurija Arkadiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd, Borstya Vasil Semenović, in connection with the application for resignation; Drano Oleksija Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Bisedo Vladimir Ivanovich, in connection with the submission of a notice of resignation; the Court of Appeal of the People's Republic of Gosudar Valentina Fransovic, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Vovenko Galin Yuhimivna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Miz Larissa Mikhailovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Fadjeenko Antonina Fedorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Sujnuk District of Sahnuk Valentin Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv district of Larenk Viktor Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Lobodzin, Sergey Volodymyrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Court of Appeal of Tarbinskie Valentin Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Shemec Natalija Viktorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Nozdrakova Viktor Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Shalnev Tetjana Pavlovna - in connection with the application for resignation; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal Badakhov Tamara Panasovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Fedorov Galina Grigorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal Lotacka Lilia Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Donetsk Economic Court of Appeal, Azarov Zinaid Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lviv Economic Court of Appeal Procik Taras Stepanović - in connection with the application for resignation; Odessa Economic Court of Baluch Valeri Sergiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Mikhaylova Mikola Volodymyrovich – in connection with the achievement of sixty-five years; The Yellowwater City Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Zakharov Aleksandra Vasilovic, in connection with the application for resignation; Mrinsky Mikhailovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Vassil Mikolaiovich's pet is due to the resignation application; Mr. Grigory Dmitrovic, District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Bondarczuk, in connection with the application for resignation; Sofia District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Bade Tetjan Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Red Army Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Zarutsky Galina Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Starobeshesov District Court of the Donetsk Region of Power Viktor Volodymyrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Rosova District Court of Zaporozhye District of Koržova Anatolia Vasilovica, in connection with the application for resignation; The Supreme District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Tokaruk Vasil Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Rožnetov District Court of Ivano-Frankiv, Vitwicky Volodymyr Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Irpine City Court of Kyiv district of Kisilevich Petr Ivanovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Dobromeckov district court of Kirovograd district of Horovtsa Mikola Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; In connection with the application for resignation, the New York Regional Court of Kirovograd district of Sosnań Lidija Ivanovna; Lutugini District Court of Lugansk, Hayduk Valencia Grigorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Mikolaievich Mikolaiwiev, New York District Court, in connection with the application for resignation; Ochakov City Court of the Mikolai district of Stepanov Valentina Mikolayevna in connection with her resignation application; The Mikolai District Court of Odessa, Bezusov Volodymyr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The coastal district court of Odessa Teryohina Sergija Evgenovich - because of the inability to exercise its health authority; The Grebinkow District Court of Poltava District of Radzivon Alexi Ivanovich – in relation to the application for resignation; By the District Court of Ravensk, Mishur, Vasil Stepanović, in connection with the application for resignation; The Suman District Court of the Suman District of Kločka Boris Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Volkovsky District Court of the Kharkiv Region of Bondarenko Viktor Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Redwater District Court of Harkova Didovitsa Valentina Andriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lysian District Court of the Cherkas region of Borisenko Petra Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Ripkin District Court of the Czernigiv Region of Putov Vasil Ivanovich – in relation to the application for resignation; the Kharkiv District Economic Court of Kovalczuk Lidiya Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Commercial Court of Kiev Homenka Mikola Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support the judges' will and the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u279	Can I put a ruling to the vote? Any warning? Please. Opponents need to know. A black man, a national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u280	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! In this order, I would ask you to remove the name of Badah's Tamara Panasivni, the Donetsk Court of Appeal. Because there is information that the application was not written. Therefore, the request is not included in this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u281	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any questions, I ask you to be more correct. Because I told you right away, there are self-written statements. In addition, when the High Council of Justice is brought before it, everyone who has written the application asks again whether he wants it or not? So you don't have to take risks, say you're not on your own. Because there's a personal expression here besides expertise. No human being who's put to the vote here is subject to the criteria that you said. All one hundred percent personally wrote their statements and filed them awaiting a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because they no longer send justice according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, there are individual judges who could be released under other circumstances at the same time, but they chose this course. And we agree that they have the right to decide that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u283	Osuhovsky, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u284	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Lavrinovich, as head of the committee for the fight against organized crime and corruption, I have repeatedly addressed you with references to the corrupt actions of the judges. Why do you do credit cards? And please tell me, do you know that the courts in Ukraine today have turned into private businesses? And especially the Ukrainian Economic Court. It has to be renamed Father's PP at all. Because the decisions made by the judges of the farm courts are a major crime against Ukraine. And this is a crime that can only be directed by the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. And there are such conversations between the judges that if the authorities change and it does change, they will not only lose their jobs but will be brought to criminal responsibility and a chain reaction will go to the very top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u285	People's Deputy Levchenko. Lechchenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u286	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, I would like to address Badahova Tamara Afanasyevna again. The fact is that she has written a statement — due to the arrival of the 65-year-old — at present she is 65 years old and I ask that she be removed from the list and considered in the future when she is 65 years old. He is a highly professional judge, a principled judge who must work. If we now fire a person under the age of 65 and she is a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, she will lose the right to benefits. Therefore, I ask that she be given the opportunity to complete her 65 years and to remove her from the list now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u287	Alexander Volodymyrovich, is there an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u288	Of course, there are explanations and answers to all questions. First question. I'd like to ask who's allowed to talk about things. that each word should be responsibly appreciated. As for the word "receipt." I personally answer only within the scope of the competence laid down in Ukraine's laws for the High Council of Justice and for its head. I cannot act as the Attorney General or as the judge of those judges who make decisions that have not been overturned by the courts of Ukraine. With regard to some actions in court and criminal responsibility, I want to say, yes, we have about 10 judges each year who are charged with arbitrary sentences and who are sent to places where they are deprived of their liberty. If they allow crimes that are recognized by a court of law, they are where those whom the court has declared a criminal should be. And unfortunately, that's what we have. And all I can do is agree that it needs to be eradicated and treated more carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u289	Vote? Have warnings been heeded? Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u290	Dear Mr. Alexander, I have a question for you so I can determine how to vote. Well, first of all, we haven't heard from you the analysis that you "assumed" as a pension. You said a phrase that surprised me that under other circumstances they could have been released, but we're releasing them according to a statement. What are "other circumstances": criminal, not criminal? Explain, do not hide, but it is the judges. And the last part of my question. Please tell me if there were any of those volunteer statements that were filed by either judge who filed it because he was troubled by his conscience because the Ukrainian courts today have the authority they have. Is there one such person, you don't know, maybe you just happened to find out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u291	I think the issue of conscience can be put in every institution, including this room, in every court, and in others. As for "other circumstances," I can tell you that the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges provide for the release of judges who have reached the age of 65. The judge who retires gets, let's say, a little less resources than the one who retires. Thus, the vast majority of those who reach 65 years of age before they reach the age of 65 apply for retirement in order to have better material security. That's the secret. And where there are health problems, there is both a statement and a medical conclusion. Please support the judges' will and the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u292	Alexander Vladimirovich, national deputy Levchenko, insisted that Badakh’s Tamari Panasovni was not yet 65 years old. Announce when she was born?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u293	I just explained why, in fact, those who have not reached 65 are writing a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u294	No, by a specific name.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u295	By a specific name, I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u296	Come on. It says here that she was born on September 26, 1948.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u297	She even made a statement earlier before, of course, 65. The vast majority of them write it that way. Because after the age of 65, a report is received from the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, and a judge is released from retirement age.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u298	She will be 65 years old on September 26. That's how I see it. Warnings, everyone? I'm putting the ruling to a vote. I am betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 3272) on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:55:59]] For 254 Against 0, held – 2, not a vote – 133. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 22, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 18. We haven't considered the judges yet, there's another verdict. Please report, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u299	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, is proposing a draft Order (3272-1) on the discharge from the posts of judges of the Bologna District Court of Donetsk Siberia, Victor Petrovic, in connection with the application for resignation; the commercial court of Sevastopol Alsufiev Viktor Volodymyrovic, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u300	Senchenko, please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u301	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, last sessional week, I suggested that I put the matter aside to clarify some of the circumstances. Sadly, in two weeks no of your subordinates found the opportunity to meet or call me to determine the substance of the comments and to check the information. So I am repeatedly asked to postpone the consideration of this matter and invite me to the Superior Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u303	Mr. Deputies, there is no reason for you to invite and find out anything, since you have the personal will of the judge and it is found that the judge himself wrote the application and wants to resign. In doing so, anyone can find out why he wrote it, and the law doesn't provide for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u304	I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. We need to determine whether we are going to work today to fully consider the order of the day or not. As you vote, so be it. In the meantime, we'll continue our work for 15 minutes. National deputy of the Magnificent. And I'm going to put this ruling to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u305	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Think of what the head of the High Council of Justice has just said. In fact, this draft decree is echoed by his words that under other circumstances these judges should be released in a different order. That is, there are judges on the list who should be released for breaking an oath and who would not have any benefits that the state would now pay. Thus, they are closed to their unlawful actions, their criminal acts, their unjust decisions, their ethical violations, and they are quietly retired, and they will be paid high pensions at the expense of taxpayers. And in general, as far as the matter is concerned, I no longer say that it is being considered in violation of 85 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, because it was not previously discussed in the committee. And we don't know, by voting today, what we're voting for. We do not know whether those judges really have the right to resign, whether they should be released, or whether they should not be released. And the draft decision that was before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u306	Honorable national MPs for the judges of Siberia and Alsufiev, there are no introductions in the Supreme Council of Justice regarding their violation of the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u307	Alexander Volodymyrovich, National Deputy Bobkov wants to ask you another question. Please. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u308	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I also offered to remove the issue of the liberation of Siberia from my last session. But I also couldn't come to you and tell you things that aren't public statements. So I ask you to take this question off, and then we'll meet up with you and find out all the questions. I think my fellow MPs will trust me to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u309	Your offer, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u310	My suggestion is that if anyone has a desire to get there, it should be implemented, at least, either by calling or by coming. And if I don't come and call, it's really gonna be hard for me to meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u311	I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 3272-1) on the release of judges. Please vote. [[2:01:08]] For 223 Against – 0 held – 24, did not vote – 127. The decision is not taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been planning a lot of questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] It didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to article 48 of the Rules, we can go back to voting after the release of Judges Siberian and Alsufiev. That's why I'm voting for a return vote. Please vote. [[14:02:26]] For 228 Against - 5, held - 22, did not vote 117. Decision taken. We have returned to the consideration of the matter. Where's Chevchenko? Where's Andrew Chevchenko? He's the leader who's looking after everyone, the Party of Regions. To whom is the word? [[B in m in s a l in]] To whom is the word? Last name! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National MPs, National Deputy Pazinjak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u312	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, there is a proposal for a vote because the representative of Esau voted in favour of Martinyuk, whose deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Ivakhov MP voted in favour of Martiuk, who is not in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-19-m0.u313	He's in the hall! [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, dear friends, don't worry. I'm betting on the vote to continue today's session. We made a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we've done this before, and we're voting. I'm voting on the draft Order (3272-1) on the release of judges. People's deputies, please vote. Vote for yourself. Andrew, go vote, vote. [[2:04:55]] For 230 Against – 1, held – 3, not voted – 113. It's been decided. The factions. Wait, that's enough! Let's figure out if we're going to keep working or not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, I'll put it to the vote. Come on, go vote. Well, what are we talking about? As I say, let's work on the whole thing. Well, what are we talking about? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote to continue the work of today's session for a full review of the agenda. I'd like the people's deputies to vote and work on the laws. Please vote. [[14:06:09]] For 214 You don't want to. Please, Pisarenko, a national MP. Turn on the microphone. The factions. Let's see the factions. The Party of Regions wants to work – 173, Fatherland – 2, Hit by Vitaly Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 8. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break until 4:00. And I invite you all to continue the session at 4:00. Today's meeting. A meeting? We made a deal. Please come to my office right now so we can talk.
