ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:49]] There were 398 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National MPs, announcements. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union for the Development of Ukrainian Aviation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the Interfractional Union "For the Development of Ukrainian Aviation" has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch Bogslavev, and the deputy director is Eugene Vitaliyovich Balitsky. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine report on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union on Prevention and Combating Non-Infectious Diseases in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Hanenka, was elected leader of this association. Honourable National Deputies to Part Three of Rule 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, report on the withdrawal of the Party of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Igor Markov. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Announcing. I have data like this. In the Feofania clinic, there's Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Is he gone? In the hospital. Pottery Sergey Vasilovich. The potter's today. Next. At Leon's Hospital, Edward Volodymyrovich. There's one in the hall today. On September 17, Ukraine’s national deputies were not on board. On a holiday from September 17th to 18th, the Povalyi National Deputy, on vacation. The word is given to the National MP of the Freedom of Shevchenka Association. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u2	Freedom faction, Chevchenko. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to what happened 74 years ago on September 17, 1939. The Red Army took military action against Poland and acted as an ally of Nazi Germany. It was the peak of cooperation between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. What brought them together? First of all, the social, economic order that existed in these countries and their desire, on the one hand, for Nazi Germany to establish its rule in Europe and for the Soviet Union on a global scale. As far back as the Declaration on the Establishment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has been noted, it is 1922 that the creation of the Soviet Union is the first step towards the creation of the World Soviet Socialist Republic. This was your application for world domination. On the other hand, there was a Nazi ideology in Germany that had the goal of establishing domination in Europe. And these two totalitarian regimes began to work together. At first, on a diplomatic level, with a gradually diplomatic, political union, an economic union, even the GESTAPO cooperated with the NCSC in the fight against the "internal" enemy. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by 1941 the Soviet Union had issued to Nazi Germany 470 antifascists seeking refuge in the Soviet Union. That is, there has been close and fairly extensive cooperation in the various spheres of life of these two countries. What's more, I'm going to tell you that the Soviet Union, by taking military action, has legally and effectively become an ally of Germany in the fight against England, France and Poland. This was the first stage of World War II. Later, it was true that the Soviet Union itself had fallen victim to Nazi Germany. But there is no doubt that it was the Communist Party’s policies that led to this. And later, even when the Soviet army was defeated in the second phase of World War II, they even went into negotiations to establish a secret peace. In Mtzensk such negotiations were conducted by the deputy national commissioner of internal affairs. And the Soviet Union has even agreed, having made peace with Nazi Germany, to take action against the United States and England as allies of Hitler’s Germany since late 1943. So the co-operation of these two totalitarian regimes was natural, there's nothing strange about it. Both the totalitarian regime destroyed its population, its citizens. I'll tell you that the losses suffered by the Soviet Union at that time have been hidden and hidden to this day. Scientists have found that more than 46 million Soviets died during World War II, one third of them being Ukrainians (more than 18 million). Terrible numbers! And I'm surprised that they're celebrating the second stage of the war with songs, dances. You take it and today even starts celebrating or celebrating the liberation of Donbas with songs, drinking, dancing instead of being in mourning because tens of millions of people died in the years of World War II, they celebrate. Today, I offer to honor the memory of 17 million Ukrainians who have been the victims of two totalitarian regimes, as well as those 46 million and others who have been victims of the Second World War by standing up and silently praying for or praying for these sacrifices.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u3	One must be made known, for one is seated, the other is raised up. What is it? I have to declare, for you see, some are getting up, others are not. How so? Ladies and gentlemen, from the Party of the Regions, who is speaking? Please, National Deputy Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, the country's distinguished national deputies, the situation in Ukraine's economy is difficult, and while working in the districts, I think that in the last week everyone has been able to find out. Unfortunately, in the near future, we should not wait for a serious improvement. Because in the major markets in Europe, in the SND countries, the economy is either standing or the pace of economic growth is falling, and we are very seriously dependent on these markets. Right now, in my opinion, we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, need to organize our work in such a way that we can, through our decisions, maximize all our internal reserves. What do I think we need to focus on? First, in an extremely regulated economy, in the economy of Ukraine, there's an enormous amount of state. We need to get the business out of the clerk. Simplifying the discovery and elimination of business, simplifying the allowable system, simplifying property registration, protecting investors' rights, reducing the number of checks and checks is a long list that we could focus on. There's a lot to say about each faction's work, if we just take what's done, we're going to do a little bit of work, we're going to be able to really help our business. Ladies and gentlemen! More than any other bracelet in Ukraine is made on export. If we can't help our exporters in the near future, we don't have to wait for economic improvement. I think that one of the biggest problems of exporters is the unreturned VAT. Mr. Head, I wanted to see you. In our time, the Cabinet of Ministers very seriously asked us to adopt the Law on Financial Bills, and we went to meet, although we knew that not everything in these laws was prescribed in the way we would have liked. But we went, in truth, to adopt and improve this law. We've entered the return on the bills -- 5 percent. We have given entrepreneurs who receive these bills 20 percent every year to pay their taxes with these bills. We agreed that the government would negotiate with the National Bank of Ukraine, and these bills could be taken as collateral by commercial banks. And that would certainly improve the situation for our exporters in the first place. But the president signed the law at the end of July. It's been a month and a half. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, which allows the bill to be fully incorporated into the work, is not signed. I don't think we have that much time right now. The situation is extremely difficult. Second position. We have recently come together very seriously, and we have worked hard on laws that allow us to sign the Association Agreement. We've shown an example that most factions can work absolutely in a coordinated way. And I am convinced that the decisions we still need to make, including this week, we will be able to make. And in Vilnius, the Association Agreement will be signed. But the market in SND countries and, above all, the market in the Customs Union countries for our economy is also extremely important. And in my opinion, despite all the statements that are being made in Ukraine that are being heard in Russia, we need to improve the mechanisms for cooperation with the countries of the Customs Union. How? I think we need to analyze all the agreements that are in force today in the Customs Union to see what suits us, what works within the framework of the World Trade Organization, and quickly join these agreements. Also, I think that the government has worked long enough on agreements, on other free trade agreements: with Turkey, with Israel, with Canada, with Morocco. I think it's time to speed this up. Dear colleagues, we are ahead of the very serious work of adopting and adopting the 2014 budget. I think this event is very related and very important for business. Why? Because if we take the higher incomes of the budget, what tax rates we don't set, and for the next year the income tax should be 16 percent, and the VAT will be reduced to 17 percent, that's not going to give our business anything. Because income is a law for the Tax Administration. In one way or another, the Tax Administration will make our business pay more. In my opinion, we need to cut down all the costs right now, as much as possible, all the costs that we can reduce. I'm talking about spending, first of all, on the Supreme Council itself, on the Cabinet of Ministers, on all the ministries, on the President's Administration, leaving only the average and lower wage of government officials and leaving in the 2014 budget an increase in spending on social needs. If we do that, I think it's going to be very serious support for our business. How can this work be organized? In my opinion, we have moved far enough and far enough. Each faction can initiate its own decision. We need a small coordination committee that can consider decisions, find compromises and bring them to the consideration of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we have worked with you on the law on the European association and have shown that we can be very serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u5	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u6	Working together, putting aside all our political problems. Now I think it is time to unite to help a Ukrainian entrepreneur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u7	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u8	Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Today, the authorities, together with the so-called "opposition" are cynically ignoring the people's inalienable right to determine with whom to choose their future: with the European Union or the Customs Union. It was to this end that on September 8th, an entirely legitimate assembly of Ukrainian citizens was held in Kiev, at which a decision was made to initiate the process of announcing a nationwide referendum. And immediately after that, the authorities sent down court rulings from the bar under the direction of the Ministry of Justice and Minister Lukas himself, who made the relevant illegal decisions, informational space captured the written "copier" comments of the "independents", in quotes, experts, representatives of the party of power and the so-called opposition, in which, by distorting the facts and events, they concluded that the illegality of these congregations and the incomprehensibility of the referendums had been concluded. It is unfortunate that today the Central Election Commission, which has been given a command to ban the holding of a referendum, prohibit the people freely and openly on the basis of the Constitution to express its position on this issue. Praised Europe is silent; people do not consider it necessary even to ask, but what it really wants. But the answer must be given that today the oligarchs of power and opposition and nationalists in this Euro-integration mountain have united. The first is the fear for its capital, taken to Europe, the second is the nonsense of taking Ukraine away from Russia and the Slovenian space. It is by working together today that the process of usurpation of power takes place. People should also know simple things that the signing of the Association Agreement does not cancel the visa waiver with Europe, does not open an association of the European market for domestic goods, because most of them are not certified and will not be certified by the European Union. We will not be passing on modern technology, Europe will not create conditions for the modernization of the domestic industry. It's also another joke. All we need from the EU is our natural wealth, our illegal cheap work and so on. power and our Ukrainian market. The association envisions opening up our internal market to more powerful European manufacturers. In addition, we receive such tariff barriers on the border with Belarus, Russia, Kazakhstan, which will make Ukrainian goods uncompetitive in the countries of the Customs Union. Tens of thousands of domestic productions are at risk of closure, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises. Hundreds of thousands of people will be unemployed, such as this, by the way, in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia. Officials of the EU do not hide that they have no intentions and real plans to help Ukraine. Moreover, after the signing of the Treaty, Ukraine is obliged to resume its cooperation with the IMF, which means the cancellation of the benefits, the rise in municipal tariffs, the refusal to support the domestic producer, the cuts in wages, and the cuts in budget positions. We Communists want you to know about this, citizens of honor. You should also know that according to Eurostat's official statistics, 120 million Europeans or almost 24 percent are on the verge of poverty and reject illusions -- nothing in Ukraine will change for the better. So instead of the humiliating laws on Euro-integration, the communists are proposing today and demanding the abolition of the disgraceful pension reform, we are also demanding that we abolish and, by the way, we have prepared a draft law and we propose that we consider the Supreme Council. We demand that no less disgraceful medical reform, not allow the reform of the LHC, which people will inherit, are destroyed houses with extremely worn-out networks and communications that they will be forced to repair at their expense. In doing so, tariffs will rise to the European level, and that is to say, wage increases in the Agreement, citizens of honour, there is no association. What this will lead to is clear to everyone. The company insists on the adoption, the return to the consideration and adoption of the law on the moratorium on forced eviction of people from apartments for debts in the LHC, which, by the way, was not exactly supported by Euro-Integrators. And I'd also like to say, Your Honor, that the Company, when considering the budget, if in this, if it's submitted for consideration, will not vote unless there is a provision for the payment of the debt on salaries, pensions, regressions, for the payment of social assistance to children of war, to the Chernobylers, to other categories, as envisaged. And finally. Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are not surprised that in a Euro-Integrated adventure, there is a nationalist position that has long changed the concept of "patriotism" by a caverly Russianophobic hysteria. And I would like to point out once again, by welcoming you to a holiday today, that it is the representatives of this political party that regret that Lviv did not remain in Poland today. Because it was in the 20th year that Petlar gave all these lands to Poland, and in 39th year, Stalin returned these lands to the Ukrainian people behind the Kerzon line, the minister of foreign affairs of England. Those who oppose it today want to return it to Poland. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Yaltic Conference confirmed these decisions. The 1975 Helsinki Conference confirmed this decision. Since 1991, all nations that have recognized an independent Ukraine have confirmed this. Only those who made decisions in 1945 did so in 1946. They will cooperate with the intelligence of England and the United States, and today they want to hand over and sell their own daughter-in-law to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u9	The Fatherland faction. National deputy Shulga. There's no National Deputy Shulga? So why don't you just shut up? Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to start with Euro-Integration, but after an ardent speech, the capitalist party should turn to you, Mr. Head, with the next one. We have one faction of national deputies. But I don't think it's the national MPs of Ukraine. You take them off the Supreme Council's pleasure because they still get a parallel salary in the Kremlin and the State Duma. You don't have to have compatibility! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We have the Ukrainian choice right into the European Union on the agenda. And there's no discussion about whether we have a choice between the West and the East. There's only one discussion. Whether we are going forward, namely to the European Union, or whether we are going back. Mr. Head! I believe that Parliament is far behind in adopting Euro-Integration Bills. We have repeatedly stressed the need to create a joint working group. A joint working group primarily after the adoption of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. I want to stand on this bill separately. In this edition, in which the government has proposed the adoption of the Prosecutor’s Law, most of this parliamentary room will not agree. It's leaving the Soviet style of the prosecutor's office with general supervision and also with special social guarantees for prosecutors. Why should a prosecutor's pension be tens of times higher than any other civil servant? Why does he have to work less to get a pension and his salary, which is likened to military servicemen, is 10 times higher than that of a military officer? Why do prosecutors want to continue to earn money rather than protect the rights and interests of a person and a citizen? We ask that the prosecution bill be passed jointly by four factions and voted by the constitutional majority. And so that the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office becomes a model European prosecutor. Not from the word currencyeuro, but from the word European standards. Likewise, Mr. Head, we have not solved the issue of the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation and the Police. I recall that there is a purely police state in Ukraine. Nearly 400,000 law enforcement personnel, namely the police! And we have a strange situation. The more militias, the higher the crime rate. The higher the criminogenic situation, the more they kill and the more they abuse the Ukrainians. So for the next three weeks. We're proposing a bill on both the militia and the State Bureau of Investigations jointly by four factions. Today's Ukrainian militia is the Vradiov militia that rapes and rapes. We have to go to the standards where they protect a person, where they respect their rights, and Parliament has to play a decisive role, and people have to feel why they chose us, that we are able to protect their rights. Individually, Mr. Head, so do I, and, distinguished national MPs, including our political opponents, regarding the implementation of the key criterion. One of the key criteria is the liberation of Julia Timoshenko. This process is halted and we do not hear a specific answer when Julia Timoshenko is released, and when the first step is taken to her release, that is, to enable her to receive medical assistance abroad. I hope that the President of Ukraine, who said that all the criteria will be met, is responsible for what he said, and this will indeed be done. Individually, my fellow believers would like to address the economic situation in the country. How can a government work, not that it has failed to submit a government action programme that has been able to introduce the State Budget Act into Parliament for just a few hours, and then quickly, as soon as it has damaged cheap professionals, run to Parliament and withdraw this bill. Today we don't have the State Budget Act for the following year. This is a clear sign that: First. The government does not want to tell the truth that by the end of this year, 45 billion dollars are not enough to finance mandatory government budget articles. The other one. The government can't quite admit that they don't know the budget parameters for next year. We're going to the Cabinet of Ministers: First. We need to resume negotiations with the International Monetary Fund immediately. The other one. Negotiations for macro-financial assistance with the European Union should be resumed immediately. Third. Negotiations with the European Development Bank and reconstruction banks should be conducted immediately to finance the Ukrainian economy. The other one. The signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is a serious step towards stabilizing the Ukrainian economy. We need new markets. Third. In the Russian direction, nothing is done but talk about what there is no war. It's either blind or stupid. When most Ukrainian companies cannot supply our products according to their agreements with Russia. So it's the third one. The World Trade Organization should resolve the trade dispute between Ukraine and Russia. And the fourth. We demand that the government and the President speak about these things. Ukraine should know what to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u12	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u13	That Ukraine will be with us by the end of this year and what is the economic plan for next year. How to pay off a billion wages and how two million unemployed Ukrainians are given a job. There must be an economic plan in the country. We have, we have no government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u14	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Please, National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u15	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, honourable chairman! According to the Constitution to the Ukrainian Budget Code, this sessional week was to be devoted to the discussion of the budget, Ukraine’s State Budget for 2014. But it's clear from the authorities that the 2014 budget simply doesn't exist. Because those who put it together do not take risks and are afraid to show it to their citizens. Saturday was a simulation of the submission of the country’s main financial document to the Supreme Council. Now they say they're back for work. The government is just making it look like it's working. That's why we have the results of our work today. To emphasize, the government and the parliamentary majority should not try to show the same focus as in the parliament of the previous call, when a budget that no one has seen or read is approved almost in 10 minutes without discussion. Therefore, we require the government to have the budget oriented towards the needs of the country, not exclusive authority. For the budget to provide sufficient funds for the development of education, medicine, science, social programs, not to satisfy the growing appetites of senior officials and repressive devices. So that the situation that occurred at the end of the past does not happen again, and it awaits us at the end of this year, when billions of dollars are needed for budgeting. We don't expect a miracle budget, it's a government that's not capable of producing a quality and truly balanced document, but we demand that we change the priorities and channel resources for the development of the country, of the people, not, as always, of officials and close to the authorities of the business. We hear a lot of talk about European integration. But there is European integration – this is not the adoption of laws that the authorities call European. Only European values will work in Ukraine once the content of these decisions is changed. I want to make your point, the Supreme Council is guilty of paying off the debt. We must finally appoint elections in the city of Kiev, in Cherniv, in Mikolayev, in Herson, in Cherkas, all other communities where the authorities have deprived people of their right to self-government. And you don't have to manipulate Kya's election, not just the mayor's election, but the Kyivrada election, otherwise the situation in the capital will not change and again nobody will be responsible for all the art of the Kiev government. Amendments to electoral laws are needed to ensure that both local elections and elections into five so - called disputed districts do not become a disgrace because of violations and manipulation. I also want to go to international Ukrainian social organizations. We're going to need really close monitoring of the election, because in December, the authorities are going to try to work out the receptions that will be applied in the President's election. And the last. I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues. Speaking of dishonest receptions, I would like to warn the authorities of attempts by the courts to change the composition of Parliament. Please pay attention! About a year after the election, the courts claim that there were violations in certain districts. Why, then, are wrongdoers still unpunished? And only the deputies who leave the mandate are punished. We demand the Attorney General's Office's official response to investigate these violations and to bring those responsible to justice. If this does not happen, the authorities will confirm to the world that, with the violation of the laws, the Constitution overturns Parliament according to its own will, and this has nothing to do with the declarations, our declarations of European choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Showtime's up. Please, rep, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u17	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, I would like once again to clarify the situation in which we have the difference between those in today's Euro-Integrated Hungary and the position of the Company's faction. It is that, first of all, we demand that all issues of strategic importance be decided by the people of Ukraine. And according to the Constitution, the only source of power in Ukraine is the people of Ukraine. It's different. We insist that in Ukraine today, the reality of specific European values is realized. Because all of Europe was going to the European Union through referendums. And the third. Once again, I would like to remind some of these talkative MPs that Gosdep of the United States has admitted that he has made a personal award, so let's say, like Berezowski, to all those who have been involved in the so-called orange revolution with specific millions of money to carry out anti-Ukraine policies here. That's what we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u18	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u19	I would like our citizens to know what is happening today. Those who now speak against the Company have all the advisers of the United States for the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, you have the agenda, let's work on it. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council of Deputies discussed the draft order of the day of the Third Supreme Council of Ukraine’s seventh vocation. After the Conciliation Council, I had a meeting, and we discussed the matter. We should consider and approve the schedule of the day’s session at our meeting, in accordance with the part of the first article 21 and the part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. So I ask your attention, there are three suggestions. The position today is not agreed upon by faction leaders. First sentence, please pay attention, we'll vote. I'm asking you, I'm going to name three adoptions now and put them to a series of ballots. The first sentence is the draft agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council to approve in general (you have it) with the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of all the bills that are registered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure today. That's the first option. Option two. I'm asking for your attention! Draft agenda to review the third session and approve in general without plugins 1 and 2. And Appendices 1 and 2 to consider and vote later, after consulting the MP factions. That's a second offer. And if none of these proposals are supported, continue consultations with the MP factions on the order of the day-to-day third session and approve the schedule of plenary meetings for the week of September 17-20 and work on it. Now, I've announced three suggestions. That's why I'm going to put in a series of motions for voting. Do you want to talk about it? Let's talk about it. Please sign up for factions. Please register with factions for two minutes, let's talk. Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u21	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Please hand over to the national deputy, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u22	Please, Turkinov People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u23	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! I want to remind you that in accordance with the Constitution, all MPs, regardless of whether they are in opposition or in most cases, have equal rights. And one of the main rights of the MP is the legislative initiative, no one can deprive the MP of the legislative initiative. Therefore, the only possible option is to vote first, i.e. to include in the agenda all legislative acts, draft legislative acts introduced to the Supreme Council this morning. The other options will be a subjective decision that will reflect the interests of only one group of parliament and violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u24	I made suggestions that were made yesterday. That's why I'm asking for your attention! And we'll look at it now and we'll vote. Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u25	I'd like to give the floor to Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u26	Please, we're handing Mohnik over to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u27	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction will support the second option. Because we think that the first option is extremely dangerous to Ukraine's bills that were included. For example, a bill on privatization of the gas transport system. And in this context, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support the second option. What's more, what we're seeing now is how the Communist Party of the Soviet Union has put an enormous amount of ideological regulations in order of the day to rehabilitate the steel-communist blood regime. I want to remind you that today, September 17, is the anniversary of the memory of the victims of World War II by Hitler and Stalin, and the Communist Party was, in fact, one of the witnesses of World War II. So the second option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u28	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u30	Pass it to Rosenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u31	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We support the first proposal, Volodymyr Vasilovich, given that indeed the Ukrainian national deputies are subject to the legislative initiative, and the right of every Ukrainian national deputy to submit its bills. Yeah, we don't like a lot of drafts with an ideology that the impact faction doesn't agree with. Including the privatization of the oil and gas complex, there are many other issues. But we have to deal with these issues here in the session room and here in the session room make specific decisions on some sort of issue, not manipulate, and at a sort of day-to-day inclusion stage, take a picture of something. In general, such a form of work as not being included in the agenda for the initiative of the committee or for the initiative of any individual factions should be stopped. All the bills are passed, we vote, we make decisions here. This is also true, Vladimir Vasilovich, and the situation with the Ukrainian State Budget Act. And with all due respect to you, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no such constitutional rights to surrender or return the bill to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This should be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s state budget under the Constitution was due by September 15. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine failed to implement the Constitution, failed to submit Ukraine's State Budget 2014 in time, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot adopt this socially important bill in time. That's why we're calling your attention to this, and the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u32	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u34	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u35	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there are statements in this room that are, in fact, a threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity. In what way? A certain political power is making proposals, as I understand it, regarding the denunciation of the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact. So I'm asking, where is this part of Ukraine going to be, let's say, which was joined by Ukraine in the 39th year? And this is indeed a threat to national territorial integrity. As far as the question is concerned, I'm just surprised that they're trying to throw out the day-to-day drafts of regulations and laws introduced by the Company's faction on the return to state property of privatised enterprises in the strategic sectors of the economy. This is very important today in order to save the State budget and restore, including jobs and so forth. As for the consequences of joining the World Trade Organization: they have embalmed Ukraine, extended it, given it to those who today import products from abroad and kill it, destroy the Ukrainian producer. The Company's faction has offered to show State support for scientific production in Ukraine, and this is forbidden to be considered. It's only surprising, then, what kind of politics and position is this? Like the company's position on preserving the debtor's right to a single residence and land in which it is located. These laws, respected citizens, are trying to remove them. So is the law on the return of property in the basic sectors of the national economy, which is owned by citizens of the state. This is what those who today, serving the interests of the oligarchic capital, are trying to rule out draft laws that the Company faction is proposing to consider and protect the rights of citizens. This is primarily the right to work, the right to work, the right to housing, the right to medical examination and treatment, and the right to education. These values are just substituted for baccarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. A faction of the Party of the Regions, the Chechetov People's Deputies, and a minute of it, the Non-Factional Forest. And we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished members of the people! [[B in m in s a l in]] In order for Parliament to work effectively, it is necessary to hold as many constructive consultations as possible, to negotiate between factions, only this way to effective legislative work. With regard to today's issue, many consultations have indeed been held. And yesterday, at the meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council, a compromise was reached which, in my view, accommodates all those interested in the effective work of Parliament. The essence of the compromise is that we must adopt today a list of drafts that does not raise questions for anyone, but 90 per cent of the total number of bills, to vote for them, and to put them in brackets. Since there are drafts in additions that are hostile to one another, on the other side of the room, consultations continue on additions and, when compromise has been reached, vote on additions. If we follow this path, and we propose that what was achieved at the faction leaders' meeting be realized today. Parliament's work will be dynamic, as 90 per cent of the package will be voted on. I think this is the most reasonable option proposed yesterday and supported by all faction leaders. We suggest we go this way. As Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev said, this will ensure the momentum of the process and not lose momentum in the parliamentary work. Thank you. I hope for wisdom and for the left. And the right side of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u38	Please turn on the microphone of the Lachka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! There is no bill 2201 on hospital closures for the next week and for the next week. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked you, members of the Conciliation Council, to consider this bill. Now I see he's gone. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to allow Parliament to consider this bill. It is the lives and health of citizens, millions of Ukrainian citizens who today are unable to receive adequate medical care through the closure of hospitals, because medicine is becoming inaccessible, and medicine is expensive. The bill proposes to prohibit the closure of hospitals. The bill was adopted in the first reading in May-month. I'm asking you to put it under review this week so that we can vote on the second reading and adopt this law and finally stop shutting down the hospital in Ukraine and allow people to receive proper medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Sit down, we'll vote, and we'll look at the proposal of the Lachka People's Deputy. Sit down and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote for the first sentence, the first sentence of the agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council, to approve in general, including the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of all the bills that are registered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for today. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:57:45]] For-126 Against – 1, held – 73, did not vote – 201. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 8, Parenthood, 65, Vitalia Klicka, 34, Freedom, 0, Company, 0, non-fractional, 19. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'll bet you a vote. The draft order of the day of the third session shall be approved in general without Appendices 1 and 2. Appendices 1 and 2 are to be considered and voted on later, after consulting the MP factions and committees. Understand? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:54]] For 196 Against 92, held – 38, did not vote – 86. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. For 184, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Calla - 0, Freedom - 4, Company - 0, non-fractional - 8. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a third proposal on the agenda. To approve the schedule of plenary meetings for the week of September 17-20, which you have to complete with the proposal of the national deputy Láška and vote in favour of this third proposal. Listening to hope, the national MP made a, well, he made an offer. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:14]] For 308. Against 4, held – 45, not voted – 59. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 181, Fatherland 42, Vitalia Klicka 35, Freedom 0, Company 31, non-fractional 19. We're working day-to-day. We're looking at draft regulations. And there's a draft regulation (number 3186) on the definition of the date of parliamentary hearings on "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and action mechanisms to solve them." How will we consider this question? Please consider one digit on the full program, you must have a conscience! Yesterday I told you, 70 questions this Sunday, and now you want it!? To look at a single digit!? I ask who is in favour of the summary procedure, please vote. [[11:02:08]] For 190 Against 31, held – 26, not voted – 166. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 172, Parenthood - 4, Vitalia Klicka - 4, Freedom - 4, Company - 0, non-fractional - 9. I want the voters to know that yesterday you and I have considered 70 of the laws under consideration, 70 of them have introduced faction leaders, and today we are going to vote, we are going to consider all of those issues the Supreme Council doesn't want. Why would you say that? I ask you to report on the matter to the head of the Human Rights Committee, the national minorities of Valery Vasilovich Paccan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u41	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, good day to the people's deputies! Vladimir Vasilovich, I raised this question on the Conciliation Council yesterday and asked you at all without a vote, the question is to put to a vote so that we don't delay the time we need to adopt the laws that are in the session room today. The Supreme Council and all of you, including the National Deputies on April 16, this year, voted in favour of the Regulation to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men, problems and effective mechanisms for their resolution. We didn't have a date because we didn't have a calendar plan for the third session of the seventh call. On September 4, the Committee considered its meeting and suggested that the parliamentary hearing be held on October 16, 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and do not delay the time we need to vote on other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u42	Valeriy Vasilovich, I beg you very much, you really raised yesterday's question to consider this issue without discussion. Well, you tell your factions that it is necessary to vote to address this issue without discussion! And they want us to discuss one digit for an hour! You, Freedom, Fatherland, please work with the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u43	I'm sure I'll do the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u44	That's how you would raise your hand, I'd like to make your offer. Ladies and gentlemen, may I put it to the vote? I am voting on the draft Decree (3186) on the definition of the date of parliamentary hearings on the theme "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them" will be held on 16 October 2013 in general. Please vote. [[11:05:37]] For 352 Against-0, held-0, not a vote-61. Decision taken. The factions. Everyone had a friendly vote. A draft (3213) of the Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call" is under consideration. How will we view it? What's the committee's offer? Well, please, word to the committee manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, request number 3213 to move. It's a faction's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u46	Honorable national MPs, the comet’s director, make a suggestion that they still have work to do, will postpone the consideration of the matter. Is there any objection? It won't. The draft Decree (No. 3214) on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call" is under consideration. How will we view it? No discussion? No discussion? I'm betting on a reduced voting procedure because there's a difference of opinion. Do not wave with your hands, but vote. Short-term procedure. [[11:07:31]] For-173 Against 72, held – 9, did not vote – 157. Decision taken. The factions. You see, because you're short-circuited, there's a full program, and there they're yelling, no discussion. That is why we have identified ourselves and give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Makenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on September 5, 2013, the Committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stadniyczuk Roman Vasilovic, who was not a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. The national deputy of Ukraine, Stadniychuk, is not part of any committee. In accordance with Ukraine's laws on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy, on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide for its participation in the work of the Committee. So this work is the main work for the Ukrainian national deputy. The Committee noted that the issue of election to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Non-Flocking People's Deputies of Ukraine was not regulated either by the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the Committee's presentation, he decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree amending Ukraine's Supreme Council Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call", and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the election of the non-fractional national deputy of Ukraine, Stadniychuk Roman Vasilovich, as a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. Please identify yourself from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u48	Honorable National MPs, are they willing to discuss? Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u50	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u51	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished gentlemen of the people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! Now we're looking at one of those questions that has two components. It has a moral and political component and it has a legal component. I'd probably start with a legal component, because it's easier and easier to understand both for a student I-II in law school and for a qualified member of parliament with higher education or without secondary education. Stadniczuk went after the election list of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. This is a fact, and he took his place instead of the disfellowshipped MP Vlasenko. First position. The other one. The Stadnichuk did not join any faction, either in the formation of that fraction by quota, which he became a national deputy or any other. The legal aspect is that, in order to join the committee, and even more so, an important committee such as the Justice Committee, he must agree with the faction manager. There is no such agreement. Thus, the Rules Committee was unable to approve the decision, taking into account the absence of a legal component. We will vote against it from the first legal point of view. The second aspect is the moral and political and, in fact, the responsibility to the electorate. This creature has no right to be a deputy, for it has violated its responsibility to God and to humans because it is an oathbreaker and must be accountable to the people of Ukraine. Our vote will be "against," and it will be a sign of a vote that will show in Parliament who tolerates "tush" and who advocates honesty and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u52	I want to make a comment to the Swiss national deputy. You're insulting the national MP, your colleague. You may criticize, but you do not need to insult a colleague. The Fatherland faction, the Avakov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u53	He's not a national MP to us, he's a "basket" to us, he's a national MP to us, he's a Vlasenko. I give the floor to the distinguished national deputy Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u54	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u55	Andrew Pavlovsky. Now my colleague Schweik of Liberty has made it clear that he has legally fully confirmed that this decision cannot be taken. These are legal aspects, and the Fatherland will vote against this decision. I want to go back to the ethical aspects. Indeed, this person will not say who, called Stadniczuk, betrayed his electorate. Let the Viennese voters hear about it. Winnie gave up 45 percent for the Motherland party. But there are people who are incomprehensible about what motivation, or perhaps understandable, they are betraying God because he swore on the Bible, that in no way when he took an oath that he would not cooperate with the Party of the Regions and with the President’s Administration. That's why we think that so-called traitors, "carcases" in the Supreme Council are no place. Not just on the Supreme Council committees, but on scum, bastards and traitors, there is no place at all in Ukraine’s higher legislative body. Shame on such people! He doesn't belong in the Supreme Council! Let him have his mandate! Let more honest people go in his place. And for us, the deputy remains Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u56	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u57	Our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Stadniychuk, has a professional education and an experience in his work. And unlike some of the national MPs from the group of wild rumbles that came out here, absolutely having the record "temporarily doesn't work." And what's going on now is this psychosis and the stupid expression "being" and so on, it tells us that you're weak, you want revenge. I don't know who the fat guy is, but the one who just screamed is a real five-pack instead of a face. So you seek revenge by abuse of your right to vote. I propose to support this nomination to the committee, let it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u58	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National MP Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u59	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Respecting all the rights of the national MPs, the true national MPs, but the position of the strike faction is clear and clear. Under "cartoons," the ground has to burn, not create comfortable conditions for them here, to see, to carry out some authority that they didn't really deserve. I'm just going to remind you once again that the person was chosen not in the majority district, she went through the list of the political party, the election union of the Fatherland. And we have in the Constitution the previous one, which was unlawfully revoked by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, had an absolute clear rule that a person who was elected on the list of one political force, if he does not go out there, should be deprived of parliamentary powers and a parliamentary mandate. But as a result of such fraudulent actions by the Constitutional Court, we have been removed. But this does not mean that we should not condemn such actions, condemn betrayal, condemn "breathing" and inadmissibility, changing the political will of our constituents. So the impaction position is clear and clear. We will not vote for any transfer of any MP who has betrayed his electorate. This person should be deprived of a parliamentary mandate. If he had a conscience, he would have declared his credentials today. So the work of the Ukrainian judges. It is such a person who should deprive traitors and carcasses of their parliamentary powers, not of those who have legally and honestly won their election. That's why the strike faction won't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u60	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. So let's move on to making a decision. The MPs have the opportunity to listen to everyone and to identify themselves. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (No. 3214) amending the Supreme Council Order on the Supreme Council Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[11:17:43]] For 210 Against 112, held – 1, not a vote – 86. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party – 173, "Paternity" – 0, Vitalia Klitka – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 31, non-fractional – 6. A draft Order (number 2125a) on the 2013 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. How do we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you who's in favor of taking a brief look at this, please vote. [[11:18:50]] For-173 Against 68, holding – 9, not voting – 160. Decision taken. The factions. Reported to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Zuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u61	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Good afternoon, honourable deputies, distinguished voters! Mikola Jouk, 129th constituency, central district of Mikolayeva, Yellow District of Mikolayivsk. Dear colleagues, in 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine established a prize for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for contributing to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government, for young people. A total of 10 such prizes are awarded annually, with a financial share of a thousand and 360 dollars each. This year, the committee received seven proposals from all - Ukrainian youth social organizations. At the meeting, the committee considered the documents presented for the prize. The responsibility for their formulation of the requirement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prizes for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, the local self-government proposes to award a prize in 2013 to the candidates indicated in the relevant draft decree. Please support the committee's proposal: to adopt the draft decision as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u62	Sit down, thank you. Do we need to talk? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Should I? Please sign up for factions. I'm asking the people's MP of the Parasks, please. I can't hear you. Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Paraskiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u63	He's not saying a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u64	You say no, you say no. The Fatherland faction, national. I'm requesting the faction of the People's Deputies Party, Hanna Herman, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u65	My fellow Members, I think it would be right in this room to name the names and people of those young talented workers who contribute to the development of parliamentaryism. The very size of the prize isn't that big, but for these young people, it's probably more important than this money to let Ukraine know about it, so that we can keep it both morally and morally, because maybe it's the people who come to our place that will do more and better than we do. So I think, first of all, here in this room in Ukraine, we need to call those dignitaries that we're going to reward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Do all of you have draft decrees? Yes, I'm asking you, the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u67	Please pass it on to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u68	Please, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u69	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues! I remember very well when we voted in the previous cadences for this decree. It was a good idea, and it was, frankly, supported without much discussion and so forth. However, today, from my point of view, there is a very different trend. The decision was to really support young people, to instill in them, as it were, the taste of parliamentary work, to work in local governments. Today, it was said that you should call them, you should really call them, but no person here. Yes, or the President's assistants. As a national MP, I don't know at all. So I didn't come up with these proposals to offer someone, say, from the Trinity of young politicians who are really working. Here's the thing: a fully represented Party of Regions in a hidden version or in a version not very hidden, or not at all hidden. Because of this "Fatherland" vote for, forgive me, for such a dining room that feeds young people (they, by the way, are not guilty of anything) Party regions, in power. That's why we vote for this simple, simple sin. We're condemning the Supreme Council award. To whom and for what merit? There are deputies here. Why did they show up here? They receive their wages and work for a national deputy. You can't vote for that. You should. I suggest you look back at the faction. To announce a certain contest, who are these people, what are these people? Then, with a clear conscience, we can vote for them. Not today, Fatherland won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u70	Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u71	Please give the word to Igor Yankev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u72	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u73	Igor Yanków, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" unification will not support this decision either. Because we think that the very approach to creating a list of applicants was opaque. Much of the talented Ukrainian youth who deserved help to receive such a prize was simply removed from the opportunity to participate in this award competition. And that's why the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is in favour of watching the competition, or the candidates for the prize. And in general, look at the system itself, how the prize is assigned. Because we can see that only a narrow-party approach to determining the applicants for the prize. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union will act against the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u74	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Arthur the Palace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u76	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, prizes should not be shaped in a political way. But I think there are enough young people on this list today that deserve these awards. Of course, I'm sure there'll be a lot more candidates next year and the premiums will be a lot higher than this year. The strike faction will support this bill, the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u78	Everybody here? Please, National Vice-Place of Jury, faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support that decision. I wanted to stop for two moments. First moment. It's consistent with what there were statements about transparency. The decree is open, and by April 1, all subjects who have the right to submit have the right to submit. That's to say that it wasn't transparent. After that, our family, youth, sports, and tourism committee reviews and approves these candidates. A total of 10 prizes, this year only 7 people were awarded for this prize. All of them are clearly worthy of plan to support. Once again, I want to say that it is necessary to support young people today, to give them incentives and motivation to work in our country and for the benefit of our country. The Company's faction will support it. This position was supported by an absolute majority by a profiling committee. So I ask you to support the young and give it a path to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and we'll make our decisions. I'm betting on the vote, the committee's making a proposal, and we need to consider the committee's proposal. I'm betting on a draft Resolution (2125a) on the 2013 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of local self-government parliamentaryism for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:28:11]] For 230 Against 43, held – 20, not voted – 115. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 176, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 18, Freedom - 0, Company - 29 and non-fractional - 6. The draft Decree (2635) on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government is under consideration. This is the order of the matter. Should we discuss whether a vote can be put to the vote? I am voting on the draft Decree (No. 2635) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentary local self-government for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:29:42]] For 231 Against 5, held – 58, not voted – 111. Decision taken. The factions, please. There's no motive. Read the regulations. You've made a decision to have me vote without discussion, and most of the Supreme Council have voted. There's no motive for voting. There's a draft regulation, a lot of laws, let's work. (number 2131a) on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the subject is very important: "The callous regime between Ukraine and the EU: prospects and new opportunities for Ukrainian citizens". How will we view it? I'm making a proposal that's been made on a reduced basis. If you don't support it, we'll be in full swing. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:31:03]] For-174 Against 62, held – 8, not voted – 161. Decision taken. The factions. He will report to Irina Grigorovna Coasta, the first deputy head of the European Integration Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u81	Good afternoon! The President-in-Office, the honourable colleagues already in November at the Eastern Partnership summit to be held in Vilnius, Ukraine intends to sign a long-awaited, very important Association Agreement with the European Union. To successfully implement this ambitious document requires not only the political will of the government and the parliament but also the elite, but also the broad support of the public. According to the results of all without exception of sociological surveys, the more Ukrainians travel to the European Union, the more they support Ukraine’s European choice. But at the moment, statistics are tragic: only 12 percent of Ukrainians have visited the countries of the European Union in the last five years, with 1 percent visiting them many times. Thanks to the hard work of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, we have made tangible progress in the process of simplifying visas for Ukrainians. In particular, since July 1, the Agreement has become effective, which has expanded the list of categories of citizens to facilitate the processing of visas. But we can't afford to lose our pace. We need to get to a qualitatively new level of visa discussion. And parliamentary hearings on visa-free dialogue will facilitate this discussion. I am absolutely convinced that without mobility and open borders, the EU association will have very limited action. I call on members of all factions to fill the integration with real meaning, and therefore I ask for this Order to be supported by parliamentary hearings on visa liberalisation with the countries of the European Union. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with part three of article 229 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, a decision on the date, time and place of parliamentary hearings is to be taken no later than 30 days before their conduct. Under these circumstances, I appeal to you, Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich, when the draft decree is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u82	What date? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u83	Please put to the vote a draft Change Order. It's number one. The hearing date is November 6th. And paragraph two. The deadline for preparing and submitting all documents to the Supreme Council is October 22, 2013. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u84	So when do you propose to spend?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u85	On November 6th, Parliamentary hearings, the second, October 22nd. And the hearings are on November 6th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u86	November 6th. And on November 20, we have parliamentary hearings. Oh, we're going to be looking, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u87	We have a different date now. But it is already, since we have been looking at this issue for a long time, it is already late. We have to hold these hearings at the proper level on the eve of the summit that will take place in Vilnius. So I'm asking you to set a date for parliamentary hearings, and this proposal is in agreement with the European Integration Committee on November 6th.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u88	November 6th. Have a seat. Thank you. Are there those who would like to discuss whether we should vote? Please sign up for factions. Please, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u89	Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The faction will vote in favour of this project to hold parliamentary hearings, but I would like us to understand the results of these parliamentary hearings. First. In this regard, government officials and, above all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be involved in the visa regime. Today, they must resolve those issues that have long been declared in Ukraine. And by the way, Europe promised and made a commitment to a visa-free regime that would open up to Ukraine. Ukraine has done nothing for Europe, and Europe has done nothing for Ukraine – first. It's different. I want to stress once again that no visa-free regime in the next 10 to 15 years, or maybe 20 years, is going to be a visa-free regime, and that's also understandable, because Europe has not invited Ukraine to the European Union. Today, through the association, through the signing of the treaty, Europe has forced Ukraine to kneel and open up economic space for its products. And as our people traveled to Ukraine on a visa, Ukrainian citizens would do the same. And all that has to do with working in Ukraine will be the same problem. But what we care about today is what happens if we don't have a balanced policy, we're going to have a relationship with the Customs Union, and we're not going to solve the question that today, at the time that the people of Ukraine in the referendum have to determine which vector of external integration, it determines for itself. So the problem is that we have a visa regime with the countries of the Customs Union. And that's when millions of people today who have earnings and jobs in the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, that's the territory of the Customs Union, that's exactly what they won't have. And in Europe, as was the visa regime, it will be. And I wish no one had any illusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u90	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u91	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Dear radios and television viewers, I would like you to understand that it is impossible to trust any word from the representative of the Communist Party of Ukraine regarding Euro-Integration, it is proschmveh propaganda. All they do in terms of the Customs Union is to torpedo Ukraine's path to the European Union. Certainly these parliamentary hearings, which will be absolutely right on November 6th, will be very useful in terms of visa liberalisation. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, no policies from Ukraine in the Strasbourg Parliament were represented, and there was no position other than our diplomatic institutions. That's why I think parliamentary hearings are good, but I still need to understand the realities of the European Parliament, and these decisions are made in relation to Ukrainian citizens. Because one percent is the ones who have to drive without hindrance several times -- they're the ones who have diplomatic passports. These are the ones who are able to drive, and we're talking about making visas free, so that our students, students, teachers, academics, our business has the opportunity to move their services, goods freely and to be competitive. So I think this is an important question, but still, I would like to bring Parliament to a very important point. There's a list of Fuele, and in November, we're going to have big problems with Timoshenko, big risks of signing an association. That is why I think that, apart from parliamentary hearings on visa liberalisation, we need to hold parliamentary hearings on all issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u92	Freedom faction, MP Miroshnichenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Oleg Pankević.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u94	Oleg Pankevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u95	Dear fellow national MPs! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union clearly supports and welcomes the holding of parliamentary hearings on this subject. On the subject, we must note that the very name of parliamentary hearings is too cheerful. Of course, many Ukrainians would need to be primarily involved in obtaining visas today. We hope that these parliamentary hearings will be attended by representatives of Ukrainian organizations, employees who are now in different countries of the world, to be examined by complaints from Ukrainians who want visas and from those who are legally intending to work and from those who want to learn and from those who simply want to visit countries for the purpose of tourism. Today there are many cases of arbitrary treatment of the Visa Code, today there are many cases of mere abuse in various consular institutions, but first of all we have to ask the Ukrainian authorities about how the Ukrainian authorities protect Ukrainians. There are also many complaints that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ukrainian Consular Institutions, are inactive in protecting their citizens. So, of course, we will support these hearings and hope that they will be objective and benefit from such parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u96	Party of regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u97	Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions I would like to take the floor and give it to the Ukrainian national deputy, John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u98	Please give it to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. The great colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions, support these hearings for two reasons. The first thought. We need to hold them before the summit starts, which will take place at the end of November. So the date we're offered is November 6th, which is a very appropriate date, and we support this approach. One second. We need to hold these hearings, because we need to discuss not only the conditions and mechanisms for implementing the second phase of the visa regime, but we also need to discuss how we will conduct biometric passports during parliamentary hearings. On the other hand, to ensure the rights of believers who do not want to take them. One second. We should also talk about how we should lead the process of the so-called little border movement. Since not all countries of the European Union that are neighbours of Ukraine, including Romania, have yet to implement this border movement. And we very much appreciate the fact that on September 13, Ukraine's foreign minister met with Romania's foreign minister, Titus Corletian, we agreed to intensify these negotiations. We should also think about it and discuss creating new points for the international transition across the border. In particular, we also welcome the decision of our government that items such as the Jacobs of the Hertzian region, the Krasnoil Strážinetsky, the Russian Putile region, were granted international status. But we also have to think about infrastructure to not just open up the dots, but simplify the transition time. So the Party of Regions will support these hearings. But we suggest that we discuss not only the issue of the visa-free regime but also all the issues involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u100	Vitaly Klitschka Faction, one minute, Valentin Nastawichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u101	Valentin Nastawichenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. We clearly state, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, that Ukrainian citizens have the right to drive without a visa, have the right not to stand in line, not to wait for the middlemen's handouts and to receive a voucher or a visa, regardless of which country this is treated by. Secondly, we made a clear and professional statement and a determination from this faction, signed by Vitaly Klitschko, who has long been invited by Parliament to take concrete legislative and implementing steps. The first is to oblige the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to negotiate an Association Agreement to provide for visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. The second is to eliminate social injustice when officials drive without a visa, and citizens have to stand in line, that is to say to everyone on the same regime, and to deprive the credit categories of the right to use a visa-free regime, distributing it to all citizens. Please support this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u102	Ukrainian Company faction, National Deputy Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u103	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that this is the so-called "European Party" under the authority of the Minister of Justice, Lukas, who has instructed the District Court to decide not to hold Ukrainian citizens' assemblies to begin the referendum procedure. So this one, the so-called European Party, is against the realization of European values in Ukraine because it blocks the mouth of the Ukrainian people with regard to their constitutional right to choose a vector of external economic integration. That's why, Communists, once again, we stress that the main task is to give the people the right to say in a referendum, for the Customs Union or for the integration of Europe. And one more thing I'd like to remind you, Your Honor. The responsible person, Ribbe, is the European Commission, he stated regarding the statement of the European Party called the Court that this statement, it is against European values and it is criminal. Read what he says.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree (No. 2131a) on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "The callous regime between Ukraine and the European Union, prospects and new opportunities for Ukrainian citizens", to be held on 6 November, for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:47:06]] For-360 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 54. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Decree (No. 2390a) on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine is being considered on the theme "Participation of young people in social life: economic activity". How do we view it? Vote who supports the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:47:56]] For-189 Against 52, held – 18, not voted – 149. Decision taken. The factions. Reported to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Mikola Vasilovich Zuk. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u105	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Honourable deputies, in accordance with the 1992 Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine, Parliament holds annual parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine. In general, this requirement is met. Last year, however, such hearings were not held in connection with the holding of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the resolution of all issues related to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Declaration envisions the preparation of an annual report by the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine on the situation of young Ukrainians, a topic that agrees with the committee and coincides with the topic of appropriate parliamentary hearings. This year, at the request of Minmolodsport, the theme of the annual report is "Participation of Young People in Social Life: Economic Activity". Taking into account the problem that exists in the state of youth employment, the Committee proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on this topic on 20 November of this year. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Most people say we have to put it to a vote. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on draft regulation 2390a on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Participation of young people in social life: economic activity" to be held on 20 November 2013 for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:50:46]] For 331 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 79. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. The draft Law (No. 0869) on amending certain laws of Ukraine on social protection of homeless persons (second reading) is under consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Eugene Grigorovich Kartashov. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u107	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meeting on May 15, 2013, considered observations that came from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Social Protection of Homeless Persons (Registration No. 0869) 19.12. 12 years old. Entered by the Cabinet of Ministers and accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of May 17, 2012. The bill included 10 proposals from law - enforcement entities that were included in the bill. In particular, the committee supported the proposal. Proposal 1 on the allocation and authorization of social services to homeless persons and the implementation of legislative measures aimed at preventing the homelessness of persons and the categories of delegated authority of local councils in the area of social protection. This ensures that the constitutional guarantees of local self - government defined in part three of article 142 and part three of article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine provide for compensation by the State for the costs incurred by local authorities as a result of decisions made by public authorities. As well as full funding from the funds of Ukraine’s state budget given to local self - government authorities by executive authorities. The proposal was also supported, this is proposal 4, on the deletion of section 4, paragraph 4, of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of National Deputies of March 25, 2004 (number 1665/4), as it relates to a law that has already become invalid. In addition, the committee agreed with the proposals on the rejection of proposed changes to the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act, this is proposal 5, 6, 7, 8 and to the Ukrainian Act on the Means*** Internal and External Policy, proposal No. 9. The committee agreed with the proposals for editorial clarification of section 1 of the bill, proposal No. 2 on the amendment of the text of the bill to the word “legislature” to the word “legislature”, proposal 3 and on the drafting of the text of section 2 of the draft law of the law of the law of law, proposal 10. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, that Ukraine amend certain laws on social protection of homeless persons (registration No. 0869) as a result of a second reading, adopt a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, all legal amendments are taken into account. So please sit down and prepare for the vote, we'll pass the law. Sit down! Prepared for the vote? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 0869) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social protection of homeless persons, for adoption on second reading and in general. [[11:55:51]] For 340. For –340, against – 0, held – 5, not voted – 58. Decision taken. The factions. A draft law (number 1185) on amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Customs Processing of Radioactive Materials (second reading) is under consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy at Vladimir Volodymyrovich Bandurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u109	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety on 22 May, a bill amending article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security on the Customs Processing of Radioactive Materials (registration No. 1185) (since 27.12.2012), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was considered. The text of a bill adopted in the first reading by the National Deputies included eight proposals that were processed by members of the Committee and taken fully into account. In a comparative table to the second reading of the bill, which was given to you, are presented with regulations and comments that came from the national MPs. In particular, from Sharov Igor Fedorovich, two suggestions are essentially taken into account. One proposal came from Fedorjak Hennady Dmitrovitch, Solvar Ruslan Mikolayovich, Mirní Alexander Borisovich, Drevijanka Yuri Bogdanović, who were duly accounted for in part. From me, Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich also received two suggestions that were included. Please support the amended bill (registration No. 1185). Adopt it in a second reading and in general with a new title: "To amend article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security" on the passage through the customs border of Ukraine and the customs processing of radioactive materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u110	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the couple are all accounted for. So let's make a decision. Prepare to vote. Please, National Deputy Adam Martinyuk. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. We support this bill and really all the amendments are taken into account. However, since the committee proposes to change the name of the law, it is necessary to vote in accordance with the Rules to change the name of the law and then the law as a whole. Because they're proposing to change the name of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u112	Dear National MPs, there is a proposal from the National MP. I am voting to support the committee's proposal to change the name of Law 1185 and to adopt it in second reading and generally as a law. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:44]] For 321 Against-0, held-2, didn't vote-75. Decision taken. The factions. There's a break to 12 o'clock for 30 minutes, so let's continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u113	I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Disclosure. Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you some information. In connection with the adoption of part five of article 148 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I inform you that, in connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 5 September 2013, the Order on the inclusion in the agenda of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh draft amending bill on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges and its transmission to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a bill (number 2522a) has been sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We move on to a re-examination of the law returned with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code on Ownership of Land, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 23.11.2012 (Registration No. 0982). The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u114	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, respected colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012, the Law amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the acquisition of land ownership (registration number 0982) could not be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First. The law introduces a variety of approaches in determining a series of legal persons who may acquire land for agricultural purposes, including purchasers of such land. The President of Ukraine believes that the proposed rules do not comply with the principle of legal certainty and legal certainty and may lead to a mixed application. It's different. The law does not clearly define state authorities and local self - government authorities who have the right to address the relevant concerns of foreign states, international governments, and non - government organizations that are interested in the acquisition of land of state or municipal property. Third. The law provides that all legal persons established by Ukrainian legislation, including a foreign investment enterprise, and foreign enterprises, may acquire land for commercial activity. In view of the fact that the legislative regulation of land relations has not yet been completed in Ukraine, the head of State considers it premature to introduce a rule on the acquisition of ownership of land for foreign legal and natural persons and legal persons with foreign investments. In addition, the Head of State believes that this law should be supplemented by transitional provisions for joint ventures that have started but have not completed the procedure for their acquisition of ownership of non-agricultural land. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. But I would like to add a few more words, dear colleagues. The point is that from the moment the President of Ukraine made his remarks to this law, by the time we consider it now in the session room, in the Ukrainian legislation, we've already introduced some of the norms that duplicate the President's remarks that he's just told you about. So I think the head of the profile committee in his speech will suggest how we can now make a decision. For the President, it is essential that the interests of our citizens, the interests of the Ukrainian State, be protected during the legislative process. And given the fact that some of this money or the President's remarks have already been put into effect, they have already become part of Ukrainian legislation through other laws, I think we could compromise by allowing the committee to process the table and thus consider in an improved way this bill with the ideas that the President has put forward in his proposals. My fellow Members, I thank you for your attention and I expect that the joint work of both Parliament and the President of Ukraine will bring useful results for our country, and those reforms initiated by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic will not only be our goal, but also our work, our reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u115	Is there a question for Yuri Romanovich? None. Have a seat. I'm pollinating the head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik. Please, your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear national deputies, invited! The following should be noted regarding the question raised for your consideration. Indeed, on October 2, last year, the Supreme Council passed a law amending the Code of Land (registration number 0982), which was returned by the President with proposals that the Committee considered appropriate to support. But in the period that has passed, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, other central executive bodies, whose activities are thus coordinated by the relevant ministers, which have been amended to articles 33 and 35 and 81 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Thus, the changes to the above - mentioned articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land should be excluded as being of no relevance. Such a proposal does not appear in the comments of the President of Ukraine, which does not allow the adoption of the law today, taking into account the President's proposals. Therefore, pursuant to article 135, paragraph 8, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Committee proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the law to the Central Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to vote in favour of returning to the committee without discussion, since it is necessary to work on it, and then we will discuss it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat. Honourable National Deputies, the Agrarian Policy Committee, based on the position of part of article 135 of the Rules, proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the Committee with the task of redrafting this law and resubmitting it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I put this motion to the vote? I'm betting on the vote, I'm asking the national MPs to take your seats. A very important question, listen. I am voting on the proposal of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee to amend the Ukrainian Law on Change to Ukraine's Land Rights Code, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.11.2012. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:38]] For 272 Against – 0, held – 35, did not vote – 94. Decision taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions is 151, Fatherland is 44, Vitaly Klicka is 31, Freedom is 0, the Company is 28, non-fractional is 18. 12:43:10 Let us now consider first - reading questions. Draft Act No. 2052 is under consideration, amending certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory commercial accounting and improving relations in the area of housing and utilities. What are some suggestions for consideration? Vote please! Please vote: there is a proposal for a reduced procedure, and it is complete. I'll bet you a reduced vote. Please vote. [[12:43:51]] For 155 Against – 76, held – 10, not voted – 158. Decision taken. The factions. We've read it. He will report to the First Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing and Utilities Grigory Mikhailovich Semchuk. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Cabinet of Ministers wrote to the Supreme Council that reporting this law would be the first deputy. Please report!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory commercial accounting and improvement of housing and utility relations provides for the purpose of the law: to introduce commercial accounting of heat and water for all categories of consumers, to ensure the efficient consumption of heat and water resources, to reduce the country's economic impact from a significant increase in prices for imported gas, to increase the level of energy security of the State. The bill also provides for the obligation of commercial accounting, the conditions for the establishment of accounting nodes, the cancellation in legislation of the term'residential services', 'balance monitor'. Taking into account the serious comments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the government is ready to work on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u119	Have a seat. For the report, please contact the head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Spiridon Pavlov Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u120	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on mandatory commercial accounting and improvement of housing-communal relations (registration number 2052) from 21.01.2013, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is not clear, since this project does not guarantee the full legal regulation of social relations, and is therefore not in line with the rule of law. Main scientific and expert management of the conclusions from 01.03. In 2013, notes that the bill is intended to bring the subject back to the legislative initiative for further development due to a number of substantive observations, which, when preparing the draft for consideration in the second reading, are not possible. It should be noted that the project destroys both imperfect and imperfect, but the working legal system does not fully define the new mechanism. This will lead to complications and misunderstandings, i.e. ambiguous treatment by authorities and host entities in the housing and utility market. The committee at its meeting on April 3, this year, decided to propose a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian laws on mandatory commercial accounting and improving housing and utility relations (registration No. 2052) to return the subject of the legislative initiative to work. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u121	Please sign up for discussion by factions. Please, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputies of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u122	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, this bill is indeed necessary and vital. But I don't think there's any doubt about it. One of the topics to date is housing and utilities. Housing and utilities have long required modernization, revision and investment. Unfortunately, however, one of the areas that has been least affected by investment processes has been upgraded and has been updated in recent years. As a result, our consumer has proved to be extreme in this chain. Today, the consumer pays for unrequited services, pays for running water on roads, and pays for unrequited heat. The bill should also be carefully assessed in terms of how we place our burden on the same consumer, how it must address these problems. That is, when all accounting instruments, when the accounting system lies directly on the consumer, are to be resolved until the end. Today we cannot give a full answer, and who needs to repair these accounting tools. Who's supposed to keep a specific account? Who should establish them after the audit and so on? We are therefore clear that the system must be resolved. But this law requires serious reform, so it needs to be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u123	The Fatherland faction. National MP Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the bill proposed by the government has a very simple ideology. The state doesn't want to do housing and utilities, and it translates all the problems into homeowners -- let them deal with all the problems themselves. And if they can't, let's turn off the water, the heat and the gas, like in that movie. Now for more details. According to a new bill, each new building must have an OSBB. What's more, everywhere the OSBBs are built, I ask you to listen to this, they have to balance their houses. They are obliged to balance their houses. Nor is any of the early repairs that were previously established by law any longer involved. The housing in any condition has to go to the OSB. But this is just the beginning. The law makes it mandatory to install counters on heat, water, and gas. However, if they are not installed by 1 January 2017, regardless of the person’s guilt, the provision of services will be terminated. Dear friends! Each individual must be obliged to install these counters at his own expense. If even tomorrow the service providers set unsurpassed prices for project design and computerization, the person will have to pay. Otherwise, the law expressly requires that it be deprived of its right to adequate housing conditions, which are guaranteed by the Constitution. The bill allows a service manufacturer to charge the owner twice the cost of the counters. First by having to buy them and install them and then include the cost of these counters in the tariff. It's just a little shrapnel. The bill also gives housing producers the right to steal money from the state budget. The State is obliged to recalculate housing and utility providers for benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u125	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u126	And the subsidies she gave. Now, now, if such services are not provided, the suppliers must return the money to the state. And you can't believe that, but the blacks in white are given -- the manufacturer has the right not to pay the cost back to the state. Dear friends! I believe that this bill must be rejected. There's nothing to work on. He needs to be rejected. I would like to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u127	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u129	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Indeed, the problem stated in the report and the authors is. Because today energy companies do everything they see fit with business and with citizens. And the way the inspectors go, and the way they make them pay for the unsurpassed services, and the way they make them buy transformers at their own expense and put them on the balance sheet of big companies, we all know. But what does this bill do? This bill makes the situation worse for every Ukrainian citizen. Today, the 2009 technical regulation, which obliges energy-efficient companies to make counters available free of charge to all Ukrainian citizens. This law provides that the confidence of the quantifiers will be exercised at the expense of the consumers, at the expense of the citizens. Today, those who have bills in their apartments have the right to pay by apartment counters, thus not paying for the bloated additional indicators given by the supplier. This bill is envisaged whether there's a counter in the apartment or whether there's a possibility of setting it up, putting only general counters on houses, and paying everyone for that "uncle" sitting next to it or next to it. So we think that the initiative is necessary. At the same time, this bill greatly undermines the interests of every Ukrainian citizen. And we're not going to support the Vitaly Call faction, this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Freedom Union, National MP of the Marches. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u132	Ruslan Marcinkov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. With good intentions for the introduction of general accounting and the effective use of residential resources, the Azarov-Januković Government is implementing a number of changes in the bill (2052), which lead to a substantial limitation of the rights of consumers of residential services. In particular, the bill lays full responsibility for the establishment of housing-communal account holders and allows service providers, mostly monopolists, to dictate unilaterally the conditions under which the bill is to be introduced. The government proposes to remove from article 22 of the OSBB Law the rule that residents have the right to make direct contracts and to make direct calculations with service providers. So there's another mine under the creation of OSBB in multiple apartment buildings. Since the risks to the house’s inhabitants are increasing in order in the event that the management functions of the union are not carried out in an inconsequential manner. Clearly, this is done in the interests of the monopolies, for whom the self - control of the tenants of many apartment buildings is a threat to the loss of today’s income. The bill also removes local self - government from the determination of the provider of services and from the competition of the public service provider. If this bill is adopted, the question of who will do the disposal of garbage and the maintenance of homes in the suburbs, even in the farthest village, will be determined, not by the users themselves, not even by local councils, but by government officials in Kiev. And it is clear that they will be guided, not by responsibility to the electorate, but by the size of the vote. There is no doubt that the changes proposed by the government called for allowing the oligarchs in comfortable conditions to complete the privatization of the housing-communal sphere, which inevitably leads to severe social consequences. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will vote against the adoption of this government bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u133	All those who wanted to speak. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2052) amending certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory commercial accounting and improving relations in the area of housing and utility services for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:25]] For the 10th. Against 108, held 48, did not vote 229. The decision is not taken. The factions. The law is rejected. A draft Act (2013a) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation on investor rights. How is it considered? I'm betting on a vote that supports a reduced procedure, vote. [[12:57:56]] For-166 Against 80, held-6, did not vote-153. Decision taken. The factions. Reported to the chairman of the commission, the National Securities Commission, and the Telleliev Stock Market. The head of the committee of Telleliev in an official assignment in Luxembourg. Yeah? Reports Amelin Anatoly Ivanovich, a member of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market. Please, you have two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u134	Good afternoon! Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investors' rights. The bill was drafted by the National Securities Commission to implement paragraph 71.1 of the National Plan of Action for 2013. This paragraph provides for the preparation of a bill amending Ukraine's legislative acts to protect investors' rights and requires, in particular, the right of shareholders to appeal to the court in the interests of society - a derivative, in the cases provided for by law. In particular, regarding the recognition as invalid of significant crimes of interest. In addition, the draft bill is foreseen in paragraph 15 of the Plan of Action to increase Ukraine's performance in the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation's business ratings. With a view to defining the tasks defined by the National Action Plan, the bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Economic, Procedural and Civil Codes, as well as to Ukraine's "On Shareholder Society" and "On Securities and the Funding Market" laws, which provide for the following. The introduction of a mechanism of submission by participants, shareholders who collectively own 5 percent of the statutory capital of such a society, will appeal to the Master Court in the interests of the company in the case of the official person of the company by his or her actions, or the inaction of the loss of such association. Establishing a requirement to deal with the damage caused by the officials of this association by the Land Court at the place of the establishment of the farm society. Establishing a requirement for compensation to its participants, shareholders of expenses incurred by such participants, in connection with the judicial review of the claim against the official of the Society for Reparations to the Society’s Damages. The imposition on officials of a shareholders association of full liability for material damage to society in carrying out their duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u136	Thank you. As a result of this bill, Ukraine is expected to increase its position in the business rating. Please accept this bill as a basis and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u137	Thank you, sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u138	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! On June 18, this year, the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Protection of Investors’ Rights (registration number 2013a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to further improve investor protection. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of June 18th, considers that the first reading of the draft law should be recast. The Committee, having considered and discussed the bill, including the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, recommends that the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for the first reading and that it should be further revised by the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u139	Thank you, sit down. Do you want to talk about it? Is it? None. Yes. Please sign up for factions. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u140	Please pass on the word of Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u141	Please, Xenia Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, "For Ukraine!" The city of Kyiv. I want to point out that this bill is actually revolutionary. We have tried to resolve this issue several times before, and the government of Yulia Tymoshenko has made such attempts, unfortunately, those questions in the hall have not been supported because this bill really changes some of the very negative governance practices that have arisen in Ukraine. What does that mean? Today, possession of a share, whether in a shareholding company or in a limited company, does not really guarantee anything. In fact, 90 percent of those who are members of societies have been removed from the ability to control or actually participate in the management of the company. Such a situation is absolutely evocative, and such a situation is not found in developed European countries. In my opinion, this bill had to be applied to Euro-integration. Because it actually takes a step towards transparency and clarity of governance in business, which is no less important than government. I'm pointing out that this is really a revolutionary step towards introducing a new type of lawsuit. When a minority shareholder who is actually removed from office can sue for the interests of society, not in his own interests, but in the interests of society. And that's very important because today's manipulative practices, when these minority shareholders get thrown out of management, they actually make our businesses unattractive to investors. No foreign investor will contribute money to the development of limited - liability societies in Ukraine if he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u144	..will be thrown out tomorrow, actually thrown out of this society without compensating a penny. So I think this bill needs to be supported. There are certain questions that can be developed into second reading, and some concepts can be clarified. But it must be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u145	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u146	Hello! Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction, Majority 97, Kyiv district, Brovary. The law is progressive because it actually increases the responsibility of management to shareholders and protects shareholders' rights, adds an additional tool. But I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of the commission, the executives and the deputies to the fact that the problems we often face are not about the letter of the law, but about the spirit and how it is interpreted and read. We have a lot of references to raids, abuse by officials of companies, company takeovers. And we see that as a result these are all certain schemes where both the law enforcement authorities are involved, and often the courts. And management is that the smart one is covered in court decisions. We will uphold the law, it has some flaws, but we will support its adoption as a basis in the first reading. In particular, I would like to refer to the shortcomings that should be addressed in the second reading. This is, for example, article 63, paragraph 2, on equity societies that our courts can read that financial reporting can be used to hold management accountable. We need to limit this exclusively by the action or inaction of a company’s representative in one situation or another. Yes, in general, in the first reading we will support and make changes to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u147	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes the introduction of a derivative lawsuit. This is really a necessary thing for business and for the state. A derivative action mechanism is to grant each participant the right to appeal to the court on behalf of the Society to bring to justice the liability of the officials of the Society for the damage caused by their illegal actions. As evidenced by the practice of developed countries, it is the derivative of the lawsuit that allows for the responsibility of unscrupulous officials who act contrary to the interests of the association, using the support of the controlling authority, the controlling party, the shareholder, or the ability to block the work of the general congregation in the absence of a part of the participants, shareholders. The proposal to adopt this bill as a basis for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u149	Thank you. Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Melnik Eugen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u151	Please report to the Mellnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u152	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Despite the positive nature of the bill in question, this bill has a lot of negative features. That's the point. The project proposes to introduce to the Civil, Economic and Commercial Codes of Ukraine, Ukrainian laws on associations, securities and the stock market, changes in shareholding societies that allow participants in farm societies the right to file claims against officials of these societies for compensation of the damage caused by these persons. According to the project, it is suggested that appropriate cases should be dealt with in a court of law. However, relations between officials of society and society can be both civil law and labour, and the courts of agriculture deal with domestic disputes. In addition, the task of social damage must first be established to compensate officials for the damage done to society. Only then will the damage be caused by the person responsible. In this regard, the project should be complemented by a clear definition of cases in which the shareholder has the right to file an appropriate action in order to exclude the abuse of part of the shareholders by the listed right, which may result in negative consequences both for the shareholders and their other shareholders. Thus, the adoption of this bill will allow the raiders to expand the arsenal of measures to capture the expansion of businesses. And that's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will vote against the adoption of this bill, and we think it needs to be sent back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. I'm betting on a draft Act No. 2013a, amending some Ukrainian legislation on investor rights, to be adopted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:11:10]] For 282 Against 34, holding – 2, not voting – 80. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 163, Fatherland 40, Vitaly Klicka Hit 28, Freedom 0, Company 31, non-fractional 20. A draft Act on Amendments (No. 2109a) is under consideration in some Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Trans-border Context. Please. Short-term support procedure, please vote. And we'll look at it in full if you don't. [[13:12:12]] For 172 Against 56, holding - 8, not voting - 162. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u154	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the trans-border context is designed to fulfil the international obligations of the UNECE Economic Commission for Europe. The bill is aimed at creating a legal procedure for environmental impact assessment, as it is necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Espoo Convention and the Aarhus Convention and the directives of the European Union. Implementing the decisions of the Parties to the Aarhus Convention and the Espoo Convention adopted at the meeting of the European Economic Commission for Europe by the United Nations Organization. Warning of the adoption of sanctions on Ukraine, which may result in the deprivation of rights and privileges under the Aarhus Convention, as well as the removal of shortcomings in public participation procedures, such as the creation of an active public participation procedure on environmental issues and decisions. Please support the adoption of the draft in the first reading on the basis of further elaboration of the second reading by the secretariat of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster with the involvement of Central Authorities of the State Executive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u155	Thank you, sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Irina Igorovna Sekh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u156	The honourable national MPs proposed by the bill are expected to amend the following laws: the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, the Environmental Expertise Act, the Urban Control Act. The Espo Ukrainian convention was ratified in 1999. Unfortunately, almost 10 years after the ratification of this convention by its higher body, the Council of the Parties, on 19-21 May 2008, Ukraine found violations of articles 2 and 6 of the Convention. One reason for this decision was the lack of a proper order of environmental impact assessment, which would, in particular, ensure that the public can participate in decision-making that could have a negative impact on the environment. The bill provides for the identification of activities to be carried out in the environmental impact assessment procedure; the procedure for public discussion of environmental impact assessment materials; and the order for the final decision to be taken as a result of environmental impact assessments. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council made a number of comments to the bill and noted that, according to the first reading of the bill, it was appropriate to send for further work. However, the committee believes that the comments made are important and should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee supported the bill and noted that its adoption would allow more effective environmental impact assessment mechanisms, particularly in the cross-border context, to be implemented in the State, and would help to improve the level of environmental security in the state. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the trans-border context.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u157	Thank you. Have a seat. Would you like to make a statement? None. I am voting on a draft law (No. 2109a) amending certain laws of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. Deputy Geller, vote! [[13:17:13]] For 255 Against-37, held-38, not 72. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law No. (2633, 2633-1) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law "On the Single National Demographic Register and Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship, certifys a person or his or her special status" (for the free replacement of a driver's licence of an old model for pensioners). What are some suggestions? Vote for the reduced procedure. Oleg Valeriyovich, vote. [[13:18:19]] For 181 Against-58, held-1, didn't vote-148. Decision taken. The factions. National deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues and deputies! As you know, I ask my fellow MPs, who oligarchs, to pay attention to the problems of ordinary people! Get away from your billions and millions and listen to the pain that common people have! Since January 1, 2014, all Ukrainians have to replace their rights. Well, whoever's making millions of dollars has the right to replace them with spitting rights. What should retirees do? What about peasants? What should the workers do? What Should Budgeters Do? Where do they get the money to replace those rights? And when we're told that rights are free, it's all in the water. Let the people tell you what it's free of charge. For medical help pay, because the rights just don't change. We need to get medical help. Then we have to get there, stand in line with those MREOs all day long. It's free of charge to bring you those rights, and people have to go there themselves. And so, I propose my bill that pensioners exchange their rights for free. They do not travel far, perhaps once a year, a person leaves his home for a memorial service, a cemetery, a reward, or a market. What does he have to pay for those thousands of dollars? He doesn't go abroad anyway. So I propose to support my bill, and I call upon all my fellow MPs to do so. If you don't hear me and you don't want to support my bill, I don't mind if you support the bill of colleague Valentin Nichisporenko. He's got a good bill, too. Anyway, we have to solve this problem, because people are expecting us to do it, and a lot of people have been talking to us about it, including me at meetings. I want to drive, not break the rules, and have normal rights. Thank you. And don't get drunk driving!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u159	Thank you. I invite you to report to Valentina Mikolaiovich Nichiporenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, in fact, the Single Demographic Register Act foresees by January 1st all owners of driving licenses an example of the Soviet Union to change them. This is more than a million Ukrainian citizens, mostly pensioners. Oleg Lášk’s law provides for pensioners to issue driver’s licenses free of charge. This is certainly a preference. But anyway, it's over a million citizens who have to go, stand in line, in DAI inspections. Bill 26-1 stipulates that whoever has driver's licenses the Soviet Union doesn't want to change them, it just doesn't change them. The one who needed the driver’s license for the new model changed. Anyone who wants to ride the rights of the Soviet Union, please drive. The majority are pensioners. And I'd like to propose right away, because today, as of mid-September, the next session is October of the month, there's already a queue in the DAI administration. I would like to ask the deputies to accept this law as a basis and as a whole today. It's very direct, there's no political orientation, there's no economic orientation. By the way, the DAI administration also supports this. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u161	Thank you, sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities, the International Relations of Valeri Vasilovich Paccan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national MPs, the bill for registration numbers 2633 and 2633/1 aim to amend the Ukrainian Law, "The One National Demographic Register and the documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his special status." We all know that by 1 January 2014, a driver's license issued to the relevant authorities of the Soviet Union should be replaced by a driver's license. There are now about two million Ukrainian citizens in Ukraine who need to replace these licenses with driving licenses. At the same time, the countries of the European Union do not identify the driver of the model of the Soviet Union and it is not valid there to confirm the right to drive. It can also be added that, along with a driver’s license, the Soviet Union model in Ukraine is valid and there is a number of equally important legal instruments issued by the authorized authorities of the Soviet Union. These include diplomas, certificates, certificates for the management of small courts, and so forth. Two bills introduced as alternatives, the committee considered. The bill of registration number 2633, submitted by the national deputy Lášk, proposes to leave compulsory exchange of driver’s licenses, but for those of retirement age, this exchange is free of charge. The alternative bill 2633/1, submitted by the National MP Néciporenko, states that the licence of the leader of the model of the Soviet Union may be replaced by a new model at the request of their owner and in cases provided for by valid legislation. I mean, what are you talking about? According to the Law of the People’s Deputies, Lasha is an additional expense from the budget. Law 2631 of the People’s Deputies of Nichiporenko does not provide for additional expenditure from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u163	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u164	The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting requests that the Bill of People's Deputies be rejected and that the Bill of People's Deputies be supported as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u165	Do you understand the committee's proposals? I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote. There's nothing to discuss! What are we here to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] What are the bids for factions? I would like to vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2633) (National Deputy Láška Olega Valerijovic) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his special status) (for the free replacement of military certificates of old age for citizens of retirement age) for acceptance as a basis. Once again, the National MP's project, which was reported by Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote for the people's deputies. The main thing is the law to be adopted. [[13:26:43]] For 158. Against 1, held to 55, not 183. The decision is not taken. The factions. I would like to vote on the draft Act (2633-1) amending the Ukrainian Act on the Single National Demographic Register and the documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship certify the person or his special status regarding the free replacement of the licence for the old model for pensioners. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:27:42]] For 314 Against 32, held 0, not voted 57. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 177, Fatherland - 56, Vitaly Klicka - 34, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 31, non-fractional - 16. Let us now consider the questions of rereading the first reading. And there is a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and cooperation on inter-State adoption. Rereading the first reading. How do we view it? Please, who supports the reduced procedure, please vote and I will give you my word. Yeah? [[13:28:57]] For 174. I beg of you, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Vasilovich. In view of the fact that both the convention and the law that introduces it implements this convention into our Ukrainian legislation, requiring further consultation, it is a request to postpone the consideration of these two bills. I'd like to put this question to the vote, and we'd like to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u167	Releasing the consideration of these two laws? Please, National Deputy Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we understand what Mr. Miroshnick's proposal is about. Because there are no votes in the session room for this important bill. And you know, it just impresses the cynicism of the session hall, where there's no person to adopt a disabled child. But now you and I are taking the responsibility not to accept this convention. It's about the fact that today the Ministry of Internal Affairs has exhausted opportunities, our diplomats, to track the fate of adopted children. And this convention allows us to track the fate of adopted children. I wish you wouldn't speculate on that. Interstate adoption is allowed in Ukraine, but it is only about children with disabilities who have no chance of having a family in Ukraine. So, please tell me, why are we full of healthy people on a regular basis because of our political ambitions and speculations, speculating on the fates of children? Why is it that today the Party of Regions, and you, first of all, do not vote for this, do you not support the President of Ukraine, who first submitted this convention for ratification?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u169	I'm asking you, People's Chamberlain. Please, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, our committee has spent not one hour of meetings to bring this convention to its mind. And I'm going to report that it has all the changes it needs to make now to ensure, first, double state control over the fate of an adopted child and ultimately to ensure that we can give these orphans a future. So, gentlemen of the Communists, answer me one critical question. How many, as a faction, as an MP, have you adopted children? Think of it as my MP's request, and then decide which emblem you're willing to play with children's fates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u171	Are they still willing to make a statement? Please, Igor Miroshnichenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u172	The bill that is proposed for consideration is the main treasure of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian Genofond of Ukrainian Children. And I definitely don't agree with my colleagues who spoke to me about the fact that it's only about children with disabilities. When it comes to statistics in the last two years, foreigners only adopted 15 percent of children with disabilities, and the rest are healthy children. And another question that I can't agree to either. Countries that adopt children and whose legislation is not meant to inform Ukraine of the fate of these children will not inform us of this after the signing of the Hague Convention. And we will continue to face the facts that the fate of Ukrainian children in Ukraine who are adopted abroad will be unknown, and they can become the subject of trade, the subject of reassurance, adoption into children's homes and so on. So today we need to be very careful about voting on this bill, and certainly the Hague Convention should not be fully supported in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u173	I beg you, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I must support the Peacekeeper Igor and the National Deputies of Ukraine on the third and fourth convocation to return to memory. How many times have we turned this convection around for what? It's too risky. Please take the apologists of the convention, article 9. Let's read what this is about. Central authorities use it directly and so forth. measures and can be answered to the extent that this is allowed by the legislation of their State to request a reasoned request from other central authorities. If we don't take that risk, then all of our questions are going nowhere, we won't get the answer. That's why we put our children in nowhere, absolutely beyond consular control. But we're talking about this from the third call, we're talking about the same thing. Either article 9 is clearly set out in this convention, or we cannot vote in that way for it. I just don't get it. This is where my colleague was speaking, and I was appealing to the Communist faction, and why are they here?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u175	I beg of you, National Deputy Adam Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, especially I address those who are not in the first sessional room, not the first call. This bill is known to be large and large. He does not pass through the session room and does not have the moral right to pass through. Perhaps those who advocate adopting such a bill do not listen to the media and are unaware of the information that the Americans themselves are spreading, which is being created today with our children that we are selling, not giving, but selling, unfortunately, in the United States. Listen, read it, and then press the button. And one more thing. Here a young lady was very concerned about adopting someone. My advice to her is that she adopts her husband who hides abroad and returns him to her children.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u177	I beg you, a minute, Anna Hermann, and we will consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, when we come up with such a sensitive question, I ask the opposition not to attribute the monopoly to love for children. Not only do you like kids, but you have to watch information shows and BBC and CNN and Al Jazeera if you want. There daily shows how Ukrainian, Russian, and Russian children adopted abroad are passed on from family to family, as no one is monitoring how these children are being abused. That's what we need to know and understand. This bill cannot be considered in the hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u179	Respectable national MPs, different thoughts. I beg of you, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I want to take into account now the high responsibility that we have with you for the decision that we're about to make, but I still want to go back to how the legislative process is going on. The point is that many colleagues today have argued in favour of supporting this Convention and the law, there are arguments against voting for it. But we all have to realize that if we put it to a vote now and we don't get the right number of votes, we're not actually going to be able to study this anymore. That's why I suggested that we put off, maybe in factions, other expert groups, get all the arguments straight, and then we're already consciously voting. We can do that in this even plenary week. So if this is put to the vote, I'd like to ask you to support this decision so that we don't cancel this convention at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, there are still, I see, raising their hands. Please sign up from the faction for a minute. And Donny, I'll give it to the non-fractional. Please. Please, People's Deputy Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u182	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, look, really, the tension in the hall is felt by this question. We shouldn't be wrong. Indeed, there are various suggestions. Then, it seems to us, our faction, we consider it necessary to put to the vote, perhaps at first, Mr. Miroshnichenko's compromise proposal for removal and departure, then to draft a bill. And then we'll clearly define what we're doing. But in such a way, the law that it exists cannot be overlooked. Because, as always, the specific interests of specific groups of people are hidden for good purposes. And you know what this is about. We're not going to raise that question right now. So please let us make the right balanced decision and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u183	That's what I want to do. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, the national deputy of Kotelak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u184	Lydia Kutelak, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Lesi Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u185	I'd like you to give it to Lesa Robetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, since our last vote, this is the eighth attempt to accept this convention in this room. The text was rewritten from May, and four key amendments were made to it to minimize the risks you were talking about. Yes, indeed, two weeks ago there was a raging scandal over two Ukrainian children held hostage. But our problem is that our diplomatic representations, to them it was a shock, they couldn't get that information. This convention is necessary for our consuls and ambassadors to be able to track the fate of our Ukrainians. Therefore, your esteemed colleagues, if you need to think about it and put it to a vote on the ninth floor, let it be the ninth. But remember, 26,000 Ukrainian orphans, the vast majority of them orphans. Children with disabilities are the ones adopted by Ukrainians. The disabled are in a state for the time being, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u187	Who from the faction of the Party of Regions? Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u188	Please note that the convention says that the consul will not decide anything here. Listen: "The possibility of receiving information from a receiving State regarding a particular case of adoption will depend directly on whether it is permitted by its legislation." It should also be noted that article 20 of the Convention provides information on how to adopt and how to arrange a child only if a test term is required. That's not going to change our vote in the consul's rights. We didn't know they were working with our children. We wouldn't know. You can't let this law be passed, I'll convince you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u189	Thank you. It's the Vitalia Cliche faction, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u191	We're handing Irina Heratchenko over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! It is strange to hear you contradict yourself when you speak of the fact that the fate of Ukrainian adopted children is not being traced today. So the hall admits that there are 26,000 Ukrainian children adopted by foreigners. They exist, they grow. And today, the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has exhausted all the importance of tracking their fate. The convention increases these scales. How, then, can we not vote with you to follow up on the opportunities offered by this Convention?Oh, my God! The second question. Indeed, when such frightening stories arise today about what is happening to Ukrainian children, this is at least what they are talking about. Please tell me, do we know how disabled children live today in Ukraine? When was the last time we saw stories about what was going on in psychiatric institutions for small Ukrainian children who were being brought to the state of the vegetables? Our press doesn't talk about it. So let's not ban this issue, but prevent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u193	I beg of you, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u194	It is a shame that there are not enough votes to support this law today in our session hall. Sadly, there is an obvious need to know the real situation. I have friends who were adopted by the Americans, Tamara H., who have been trying to adopt a child for over a year. And it worked. It's a happy family now. And there are Ukrainian families that have failed to do so. For example, from my district of Horatio, for over a year, they tried to adopt and failed. And it's obvious that now huge corruption is going into our children's houses, trying to get bribes. We cannot continue to maintain such a situation. And it seems to me that I need to support Yuri Mirasnick's proposal at this point, although I'm sorry, I was willing to vote for this law today. But it is now necessary to support the proposal of power and Yuri Miroshnichenko to postpone the bill, to carry out educational activities with the deputies and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u195	Thank you. Yeah, who's the last one? And we'll make decisions. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u196	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I propose a vote. And each faction by vote will express its attitude toward this convention. But I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that a few years ago the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on Ukraine condemning Ukraine for trafficking in women and children. That's the first one. Secondly, I want to remind you. Where did we come from when we were kids in independence? Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska and several other Western areas. There were also loud criminal cases. Sadly, though, they have not been brought to an end and virtually no one has been held responsible for the trafficking of children. And now what's going on today. What they sell is obvious. When kids are brought up, I say in paws or braces. And they're used to put them in clinics for organs, they're used for different purposes, and they're used in sex businesses, including children. Then again, I remind you, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u197	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u198	Again and again, I remind you that the specific care you and I, as parliamentarians, should be in that direction. Full, 100 percent, even more funding for various children’s institutions, full testing and funding of families that support such children. All conditions must be created here in Ukraine, not waiting for someone to raise our children for us again! It's just a joke.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that positions are different, disagreements. So there was a proposal and I'm going to put it to the vote now. That's why I'm asking the attention of the people's deputies. Here's the deal. Draft Act (No. 0014) on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation on Inter-State Adoption (Re-First Reading) to be sent to the Committee for Re-reading. Do you understand? People's deputies, please vote. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:47:14]] For 309 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 88. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 65, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 31, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 15. What, do you have questions about these laws or what? Next, well, I'll announce it and you'll support it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have our orders. That's how we made our decision. Let me put to the vote a draft Act (2002) amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Protection of Children and cooperation on inter-State adoption. There's a suggestion to send for a re-reading committee. Understand? Please vote under this law. [[13:48:55]] For 295 Against 0, held – 4, not voted – 94. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to offer you such an offer. We still have draft regulations today. There are thoughts to continue the morning session for about an hour, to consider these decisions, and the deputies will be able to work in committees, in factions, because there are a lot of laws. Agreed? I'm betting on the vote to continue the work of the Supreme Council pending consideration of the draft regulations that are today. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:02]] For 304 Against 7, held – 5, not voted – 75. Decision taken. The factions. It's friendly. Now let's vote for the rulings like this. There is a draft decree on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetskie. Do we have to look at it? I'm betting on the vote on the draft regulation (number 2720) (please pay attention!) about the 100th anniversary of the founding of the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetskie for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:51:20]] For 322 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 71. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order (number 2775) on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Two Heroes of the Socialist Work, organizer of the Stahanov Movement in the Farms of Pasha Angelina. May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote. Freedoms say vote. I'm betting on the vote of the Order (No. 2775) on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Two Heroes of Social Work, the organizer of the Stahanov Movement in Agriculture of Pasha Angelina for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:52:38]] For 213 Is there something the MPs don't understand? For 213, against 11, 20 held, 139. The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party - 153, Fatherland - 4, Vitalia Klicka - 17, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 31, non-fractional - 8. What are some suggestions for deputies? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, what are the proposals? Because everyone's yelling, I can't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u200	There is an offer to return to the vote on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen! There is an offer to return to the project review (number 2775). People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:54:15]] For 206 Against 63, held - 8, not voted - 101. The decision is not taken. There's a draft decree on the 100th anniversary of Plato Voronka's birth. I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[13:54:56]] For-197, against 16, held - 5, not voted - 164. Decision taken. I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u202	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. I propose to mark in this decree, to celebrate the anniversary of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, first of all, a poet, Plato Voronka, who left us with some very interesting, really talented poems for both adults and children. Besides, I would like to add that this figure is highlighted by another such light that we know that the partisan movement in Ukraine is surrounded by many speculations, forgings, and sometimes it turns out that partisans were more than an active army on the front. However, Plato Voronko is indeed one of the partisans who were in Putivla who went through this raid with Kovpak. Besides, it's just a really high flight. He also held high positions with the writers of Ukraine. And I think it would be very good if we celebrated his anniversary by publishing his children’s books. It's a big problem today, we don't have much children's literature or, if we have children's literature, it's a very cheap version, and we're spending the evening of this great writer, public figure, and a real guerrilla. I think it's going to be very and very normal. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u203	Would you like to hear the committee's opinion? I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u204	The committee fully supports this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a bill of order (number 2784) marking the 100th anniversary of Plato Voronka's birth for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:57:24]] For 270. Against 0, held – 34, not a vote – 84. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order 2165a is under consideration to mark the 150th anniversary of Michael Kotsubinski's birth. May I put it to a vote without discussion? I bet. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (number 2165a) to mark the 150th anniversary of Michael Kotsubinski's birth as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:58:20]] For 309 Against 0, held – 1, not a vote – 77. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Order 2166a is under consideration to mark the 120th anniversary of Alexander Long's birth. No discussion. I'm betting on the vote, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, the 2166a Decision on the 120th anniversary of Alexander Long's birth as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:23]] For 312 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 71. Decision taken. The factions. Now, the National MP is asking me to give him one minute after Pasha Angelini, and I promised him, and now we're going to consider the matter, and I'm going to give you my word. There are factions. Dear colleagues, we're looking at the 2543a regulation on the beginning of the 70th anniversary of the Dnipro River in the Dnipropetrov region. Put it to a vote? I'm betting on a draft decree (number 2543a) to mark the 70th anniversary of the start of the Dnipro River in the Dnipropetrovsk region for adoption as a whole and on a basis. Please vote. [[14:00:44]] For 213 Against 9, held – 14, not a vote – 138. The decision is not taken. The factions. A draft Decree (number 2618a) is under consideration to mark the 950th anniversary of the establishment of the town of Beregov. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on a draft ruling. Please turn on the microphone on the stand, editorial detail. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u206	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I draw attention to the need for editorial clarification in the third paragraph of this decision (this is for the transcript). The Main Committee on Culture and Spirituality has been appointed. So change control over the execution of the decision to move, because then there's the receipts, the reports, and so on. It's for the stenographer. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the 2618a draft of the Order marking the 950th anniversary of the establishment of the town of Beregov with the editorial refinement of the national deputy of Gordijenko. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. There's no motive. [[14:03:04]] For 310 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 72. Decision taken. The Bill of Order (2377a) on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Nicopolis in the Dnipropetrov region from German-Fashist invaders as a result of the onset of the Nicopolian-Croat operation by the armies of the 3rd and 14th Ukrainian fronts. Understand? I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on a draft decree (2377a) marking the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Nicopol. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:04:36]] For 246 Against – 1, held – 5, not voted – 118. Decision taken. The factions. For the transcript: military operations on the 3rd and 4th Ukrainian fronts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream too loud because you can't hear each other! Don't scream! Calm down! A draft Order (number 2412a) on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Ordjonikidze of the Dnipropetrov region from German-Fashistic invaders is under consideration. I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (number 2412a) to mark the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Ordjonikidze of the Dnipropetrov region from the German-Fashistic invaders. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will, I promised. [[2:06:01]] For 238. Against 0, holding back - 5, not voting - 119. Decision taken. The factions. I give the floor to Ponomarov Andrija Viktorovich. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u208	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm addressing you for ruling (2775) in honor of the 100th anniversary of Pasha Angelina. You can treat our past Soviet differently. She's heroic to me at the time, she's a landlady to me. I won't even convince you to vote for Pasha Angelina today. You may not even respect her, but you must respect the tens of thousands of lives she saved from deportation in postwar years. the Greeks of Priaby. Last week, we had the great Greek festival of Priabo, the whole of Ukraine, ten thousand people left on Saturday. The ambassador of Greece, two consuls generals, was a great celebration. I don't know how we'll be remembered in 50 years, writers, big politicians, I don't know. But when 50 years passed, dozens of people approached me and said, and asked questions about the fate of the decision. I will not ask, Vladimir Vasilovich, to return it now. Let's put it on Thursday or Wednesday. I think we'll have time to think about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u209	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u210	And by the way, she's a woman. There was a lot of talk about adopted children, she had four children, one of them was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u211	Let's work with the committee. And I beg you, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. I'll give it to
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u212	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I would like to inform you, dear colleagues, how the issues that we are dealing with are being resolved. We have decided with you to celebrate at the national level of 90th century the leading writer of Ukraine, the classic of modern and living today Alexander Alexander Sizonenka. Look, the lead committee doesn't control, the Ministry of Culture doesn't do anything, the Cabinet of Ministers has even deviated from the decision taken by the Supreme Council. I'm addressing everyone again, Vladimir Vasilovich, and please let's get together and force those who should have at least a night of memory. Look, once again, the lead committee is out of business, the Ministry of Culture is out of business, and the Cabinet of Ministers is out of business. Why do we make these decisions? Just to show how much we care about the people of Ukraine, where do we forget our history? And the living classic today is forgotten, and they don't want to do anything to celebrate the 90th anniversary of Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u213	National Deputy Tomenko, and we will conclude the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u214	Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to prove our position with Vladimir Yavorowski. And I hope it's a position and factions that didn't vote in favour of specific cities in part of the Great Homeland War. Vladimir Vasilovich, is an initiative of the committee, and we voted for the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine. And this is a state-wide event, no questions asked. If we're going to move around cities, villages and villages, we're going to turn this into an absurd situation. Therefore, ask the deputies if there is a general decision. State-wide, that's all about cities, villages. we're going to take the district council level, because now we're going to get to every village we're going to celebrate how they started pushing Dniper and finished pushing Dniper. That's what's killing the idea. So ask the MPs and the committee to organize the approach here, to observe only national events, and to mark regionally the decisions of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u215	I support your offer. Yesterday, on the conciliation board, we discussed the matter and would be in charge. The order will be aligned with all factions, and you are raising the question correctly. Last one is Easy, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u216	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You and I have just voted on the decree to mark the 120th anniversary of the birth of the genius of the Ukrainian Alexander Petrovich Dujenk, the great Ukrainian film director, Shevchenka in the cinematography without exaggeration. So Alexander Petrovich Long’s greatest dream was to be buried in the Ukrainian land. Today, his ashes will rest in Moscow’s New Year’s Cemetery, but he commanded that he be buried in Ukraine. And that's why I'm going to the government. As part of the commemoration of the 120th anniversary of Alexander Petrovich's birth, he was obliged to activate the negotiations with the leadership of the Russian Federation on the execution of his will, the implementation of Alexander Petrovich's will and the burial of his dust in the Ukrainian land. He will repay us for this work, for the fulfillment of his will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-17-m0.u217	Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'll invite you to the session.
