ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:41]] 363 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act on the improvement of the internal affairs human resources system is under consideration. How do we view it? It's short. I hear you're making a proposal. Short-term procedure. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[16:03:44]] For 116 Against 35, held – 3, not 216. The decision is not taken. Turn on the microphone of the People's Democratic People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the point is that we just walked into the hall and couldn't put the cards in. So please put to the vote a return to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u3	Turn on the microphone of the tripartite MP, the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u4	Vladimir Vasilovich, thank you for your good memory. You push her away, I'm happy. Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The question of training, the training of our militia is very, very important. You know what's going on in the country today. Take a look at the number of police - related violations that have occurred in the area of personnel. The Voradiov court is now in Santa Claus. One by one. Come on, Vladimir Vasilovich, you don't have to pedal that question right now. It didn't go away. Let's go through the whole program and talk about it. There's something to talk about. It's a public matter, it's very important. And let's not strain and come back. The full program fits this issue very and very well because it is important to the Ukrainian State today. Let's talk about it, really, on a full-time basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u5	I think, Mr. People's Deputies, let's listen to the proposal of the Yavorowski People's Deputy and start working. First Deputy Interior Minister Victor Borisovich Dubovic will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act is proposed. The bill stipulates that graduates of higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education and persons who have been released from service for three years after the completion of the higher education institution of the Ministry of Education are obliged to compensate for the costs of maintaining them in these educational institutions. The adoption of the act will not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and will help to address the issues of internal affairs personnel, as well as to improve the efficiency of the use of budget resources to support professionals in higher education institutions in the IMF system. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u7	Thank you. Any questions with the deputies? None. I can't see. There's a question. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. I'm asking you, the faction of the Party of Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u8	Dear colleague, I'd like to welcome you to Jury Day and ask you one question. Here's the help. Over the past three years, 186 persons have been released from the Ministry of Education for various reasons. Of these, only 19 are due to disease. And 571 police officers were released from internal affairs for three years after completing their education. But you realize that they've spent a lot of money on the government budget. That's actually not what we're using these government funds for. I'd like to hear your answer to my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, with these changes to article 18, we predict that those who have been released from internal affairs for three years or students who have studied and then have been released to compensate for these costs in the budget for their training.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u10	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u11	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great reporter, indeed, what you're proposing, on the one hand, will discipline the people who, after the completion of the relevant training facility, will work for the state, but on the other hand, will resolve the issue of budgetary financing. Because sometimes they even go to military schools, like elsewhere, right after graduation, and there's no awareness of the choice they make. Thus, a number of people will think before going to these educational institutions. But I have a specific question: how many people a year can refuse to study in these institutions if this bill is passed and what amount will be saved in the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u12	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. We estimate that on average we have more than 500 graduates who have just graduated from our higher education institutions. And if we have an average cost share of 15 to 20,000 dollars per student, we can only compensate the state for almost 25 million dollars. But I think you said it right before that that this action that we're now proposing changes, they're the ones that will only come in to learn and then enter, they'll hold them back and there'll be fewer of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u13	Last question, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u15	They passed it on to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u16	Dear reporter! Today, Vradyivka, in fact, has almost every Ukrainian on her mouth. One day after this tragedy that happened there, I got in my car, I got in my car, and I got curious about how this little town lives in the Mikolai district, what's going on there. Of course, I was most interested in how the retesting would be carried out, since even Azarov was talking about the need for this district department to be disbanded at all. There was an attestation. It happened as people told me, right there, in the Paradise of the Santa Claus, from Kiev, a few generals, locked themselves behind closed doors and re-tested. There are about 64 positions of militia. And, in fact, after all, when people talk about how they've written a lot of statements and so on, one of the militias just actually took away, let's say, this place. What is a reagent? Do you think you can keep doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear National Deputy, I was also in Vradyevka, receiving citizens, associating with citizens. There were also public representatives present at the test, and we evaluated each fellow worker. As a result of the evaluation of 21 fellow workers, they remained in office and were released from internal affairs. This was also true of the head of the U.M.S.O. in Nikolaevsk district, which also applied to the management of this raid. But we're going to take your point into account and we're going to deal with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u18	Thank you, sit down. I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u19	Vladimir Malyshev, Party of the Regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Committee, at its meeting on 5 June, considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to promote the consolidation of graduates of higher education institutions in the internal affairs offices and to compensate the State. The first is the early termination of the training contract because of the unwillingness to continue the training or failure to implement the curriculum. The second is separation from service for three years after completion of the school, except for dismissal or reduction of the state. The First Deputy Minister has told me all the situation I have, I would not like to repeat myself. The only thing I want to say is that the State is in harm's way, and the police are not getting a decent shift. Therefore, I ask that this bill be adopted as a basis and generally because there is nothing to be done. The bill was agreed with all ministries: the Ministry of Finance, Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Justice. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you to the members of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u20	The question is to a coconspirator? Yes. Please sign up. Keep your voice down because you can't hear anything! I beg of you, the Fatherland faction, Alexander Cugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u21	I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague Jaremi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u22	Comrade Jarem, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u23	Vitaly Jarem, city of Kiev, faction of Fatherland. Is that a question or a statement, please tell me, because there's only one minute? Vladimir Stepanovich, please tell us the reasons for today's release will be the payment of expenses and exchange rates and workers who have worked for less than three years. But in this bill, which you're proposing, it says "for any other reason," there's no list of reasons. So please explain, from a legal point of view, what is "any other reason" and is there such a terminology in jurisprudence at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u24	I think that there is such a terminology and there are various reasons that are not provided for by law. That's why we wrote it. That is why, I believe, dear colleague, it is not a significant question and it has no impact on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u25	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u26	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Tell me, please, an honorary reporter. If you continue to speak English, we will all be very happy about it. That practice, which is normal for legal, medical, pedagogical higher education institutions, when, in fact, a young person who gets an education is working for the state. Yes, it's a normal practice both in terms of budget and in terms of common sense. But please tell me, how can we adequately adopt the rules for sergeants, tomorrow's militia lieutenants, to whom Vradyivka, Kyivrad, in action on May 18th, their commanders expressly give criminal orders to speak against their own people, and in what foreclosure are people who have received education at the University of Internal Affairs yesterday? They either carry out a criminal order against their own people, or be set free, to pay back their tuition fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u27	Thank you for asking. I mean, my dear man, this has nothing to do with this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a law in Europe or in the police of European countries: if a police officer is dismissed without having worked a certain number of years, he is obliged to compensate for material damage. As a matter of fact, I would like to say that the police in Europe are up to 60 years old and over, and no one wants to quit or has that desire. Because they have a decent social package and a decent salary, and there can be no such cases as were in Vradievka. And it's completely off-limits. But it's a subject of another conversation and a whole other subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u28	Tell me why you're asking. How do you know what will answer in Russian and you do not listen! Why are we wasting our time? Do not ask questions. Well, it's Russian, and you don't listen! Sit down, sit down, thank you. Time's up. Yelled. Yeah, let's, uh, dignitaries, discuss this. And I'd like you to sign up for the factions. And then the MPs. Please sign up. National Deputy of Switzerland, Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u29	I give the word to Andrew Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u30	Please give it to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u31	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. When deciding on the bill, it should be taken into account that Ukraine is on the webs of a totalitarian militia regime. Today, special units of militia are being used against peaceful gatherings of citizens, political opponents, raiding enterprises, forging elections. The adoption of such a bill will create conditions for the intimidation of trainees during the first three years of service. When given a criminal order, a young lawyer will have a dilemma: to execute and break the law or to show courage, to release himself and pay a large sum of money for his training. What is the mechanism of reimbursement for young Ukrainians who have not even worked? Go to your own organs to sell or go and steal? Is this perhaps a new way of impaling students along with their families? As a result, these children are forced to stand in the ranks of "Berkutu", to beat journalists, public figures, national MPs, to help falsify the elections. Clearly, the regime, with the sense of defeat in 2015, is preparing to distort the will of the people. Such bills distance Ukraine from European standards and bring totalitarian regimes of the mutiny union closer. Moreover, by limiting the existing right to education, this bill is unconstitutional. Article 53 of the Ukrainian Constitution obliges the State to provide accessible and free higher education in public and municipal educational institutions, and gives citizens the right to obtain a higher education free of charge in public and municipal educational institutions on a competitive basis. No one has the right to take this right back to Ukrainian citizens. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will not support the bill in such an editorial. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u32	Party of regions, National Deputy Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, may I have the floor to Mr. Grigori Smithyu?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u34	I beg you, Gregory Smythech, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u35	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear colleagues, I do not believe that this law can be adopted. First of all, it really violates the rights of citizens, the constitutional rights of citizens. It is the right to provide education. Secondly, this law will not solve the main problem. The main problem is the socio-economic provision of young police personnel who complete higher education institutions: in financial security, in insurance, in housing and so on. If these issues are not dealt with in a comprehensive manner, a graduate of a school may not be tied up, considering that he should compensate for his studies. If we want to introduce this standard, this rule, in my opinion, should be distributed to everyone, without exception, to the educational institutions that receive education, to the students, at the expense of the state budget. If this norm is a general distribution, then it's going to be constitutional or more or less constitutional, in my opinion. And in that case, you can't accept it, in my opinion. The second question. You know, when higher education was done earlier, the boys were going to get secondary education to get a higher legal education, they were motivated by the question that most didn't want to serve in the army. And you know that these students shouldn't be, that is, military service. And that's why, of course, they went and their motive was to get an education, and then get free, and reduce their ability to get and learn and reduce their ability not to work during military service. So, I think without a comprehensive solution to the issue of ensuring normal working conditions in the police force without raising the prestige of this profession, we're not going to solve this issue, we're just going to put this problem in a corner, a dead end. And so to restore a firm right to these graduates, I think that's not the order of the day today and it's not the main problem. So I will not personally support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u36	I beg of you, National Deputy Victor Chumak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u37	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, I want to say that the strike faction will support this bill. But what I'd like to say is that this bill, in our opinion, does not solve the main problem of human resources preparation for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and does not even solve the problem of their improvement. What is more, it is purely technical. Although any such bill can be considered as one that increases the pressure on students after they're released from higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education. Yet, the very system of preparation at the Ministry of Internal Affairs is, in our view, wrong in general. What do I want to say? I would like to remind you and all of our voters that we have one of the largest militia structures in the former Soviet Union, one of the largest police structures in Europe. According to the law, the special composition of the IMF’s military headquarters should be at a level of 240 thousand. Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs report that 171,000 people are present. But no statistics, as far as they really are, do. Nevertheless, even with such modest estimates, I would like to say that we have a population of 372 militias per 100,000, one and a half times the number recommended by the United Nations. And this recommendation applies to all countries of democracy and provides for no more than 220 militiamen. The world’s average population in democratic countries ranges from 200 to 230 militias per 100,000 population. Please tell us why we should feed such an army of people when we have one of the lowest indicators of the rule of law and order in the world. Moreover, I would like to say that the biggest problem with our militia is trust in its population. According to a study by the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, April studies this year, only 1 percent of the population trusts our militia. Imagine, this is the collapse of the law enforcement system, where only one percent of the population trusts it. The human resources training system is the primary link between the corruption of police work as a whole. Imagine that to date, to join the militia forces, to learn in the militias, to finish, to be distributed out of militia units, only through bribes. The courses that come out after such training, which receive the baton, the gun, the handcuffs, they just think about how to deduct that money. It is within the closed police force that the law enforcement system is being falsified and it is already coming out of there with professional deformation. Europe is going another way. Europe prepares schools, civil schools, law enforcement, and then provides them with additional training. Think about it. We have six institutes today, six universities, two academies, and a lot of IMF schools. Then why do we have to do this?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u38	20, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u39	Is there such a huge amount of law enforcement that they don't protect anyone from anything? The government is proposing to make some technical changes, and we believe that we need to move on to a serious reform of the IMF as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u40	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national MP of Borita. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, of course, this is an extremely important problem. I want to address you as an officer in this room right now. The point is, it's time to put things in order. Of course, when young people enter higher education institutions, military educational institutions, they think about what is easier to learn, the State provides training. There's a problem. But let's look at this problem from the other side. Of course, our young people are finishing up, our children are finishing up their military education. And what happens to them? Of course, jobs are provided. But there is no housing, there is nowhere to go to, and families are falling apart. And this, of course, needs to be taken radically. I mean, there was no such thing in Soviet times. The young person who completed these schools was provided with decent employment, service, and care for young families, and the State was primarily concerned about providing them with housing. So now, by adopting this bill, we are going to vote in favour of this bill. Indeed, if almost a thousand young people are freed, and the state is spending such enormous costs, it is a great problem for the state. That's why we're voting for this bill. But let's, if we're going to reform, let's take these important problems into account to ensure that we do what we need in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u42	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Please pass the word to Vitalia Jaremi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u44	Please hand over Vitalia Jaremi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u45	Vitaly Jarem, 212 constituency, city of Kiev, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I ask you to look closely at the bill that is being proposed today for consideration by the Supreme Council. The current rule of the Police Act gives clear and clear ideas on how a police officer will compensate for the damage to the Ministry when he is released from internal affairs. The language applies to university students, and the language refers to those who have graduated from higher education institutions and have served in the police for three years. Today, the initiator of the legislative initiative proposes to release, except for clearly provided reasons, discharge on any grounds. It's absolutely not a constitutional norm, and even the concept of "for whatever reason" is not legal. Article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides for the right of citizens to work freely chosen by them. The Ministry of Interior’s educational institutions are mostly trained by lawyers of higher qualifications. A large number of police officers are transferred to other law enforcement agencies, such as the Security Service, the Tax Police, the Prosecutor’s Office, and have a higher legal education. This bill forbids these passages. Thus, we will virtually not give them the constitutional right to choose our profession freely. To date, the Ministry of Internal Affairs needs to create conditions for the normal socio-economic development of young people who have decided to devote their lives to fighting crime. On the contrary, we are introducing new laws that demean their rights. I think that those national MPs who need to understand that the police need to develop in a democratic country as a civilised law enforcement structure, they are not voting for this bill. The Fatherland faction won't vote in favour of this bill either. Please support me and do not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u46	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. I ask you, the Freedom Union. I invite you to the words of Michalchisin, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u47	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u48	We're handing over to the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u49	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! What can be said first of all about this bill? This is what has been said here today by the People's Party of Regions, that the main problem of law enforcement in Ukraine is the poor social welfare of their workers. You know, I'm going to let myself disagree with that because the main problem is not that, but the main problem is that the police have been turned into political guards and an anti-national body that deals solely with collecting black money with some illegal business and engaging in political persecution. This is the main problem of the police in Ukraine, and everything else is a derivative. And today, when we're talking about this bill that actually makes classmates, militiamen fortifications, there's nothing good about it. Because 100,000 dollars is an insurmountable sum for the vast majority of Ukrainians, especially for ordinary boys from simple families who go to the militia. And the real thing is that this person becomes just a slave to whom they've been told, go fight people, and he's forced to do it. To whom they told you to block and not let anyone in Kyivrada in order not to have a legitimate meeting, and he will do so, because he will not go anywhere unless he wants to carry out criminal orders at least a little bit, he will not just be released, and he will be made guilty of 100,000 dollars. So, of course, we won't vote for it. And by now it is time to say that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, still have to endure the abuse of ourselves by the law enforcement authorities. Because it's just gone all the way. We remember the events in the Hotel Court when police officers beat national MPs, beat ordinary people, and then detained a national MP. Without a precedent in the history of Ukraine, when a national deputy spent four hours in a freeway. We know what is happening under Kyivrada, which is happening regularly. And on August 19th and October 2nd, when something called "Berkut" decides who gets into the Kyiv City Council and who doesn't, and why does it limit the right, including the people's deputies, to enter administrative buildings, and beat national MPs, journalists, and ordinary citizens. And so, society, if we don't ask this question hard, if we don't force the police to comply with the law, and it will continue this policy that we have today, there's nothing to be surprised that we have in a country of dictatorship, and the mandate of a national MP is worthless. Because, for real, for Sergeant Burkut, it's really not worth anything. Therefore, this situation needs to be changed, and this law cannot be upheld in any way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u50	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u51	Honorary Society, Ukrainian National Deputy Edward Leonov, All-U.S. Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. I just got back, right now in a recess, while most of the people's deputies, most of the MPs relaxed during the break, I was at the session of the Shevchenkov District Court, where they're judging the liberals, our guys, who the police are accusing of allegedly committing disorder. For example, in the wintertime headquarters, you may remember that when the Kiev City Administration called for support in Sunday Adelaide. His adepts held a meeting there called the "establishment of public council meetings at the KMDA". And there was a mass massacre in which I, as a national MP and other MPs from Liberty, suffered, and the boys, our assistants, who protected us from those naked sects, are now going through criminal cases that they seem to have committed some kind of mass disorder there. At that, there were militia officers, the same militiamen who had also been beaten with us, there were militias at the Schewchenky Paradise Department, who had been beaten by these Sunday Adelaide adepts, but they were silent, they had bit their tongues, and now they were sniffing their heads, although they would also have been injured in the matter. But they serve the regime, they fear for their future, they fear for their place, for their chair. And we're now discussing a law that will lead to an even worse situation in the police when, starting with the student environment, a young police officer of the future will think that he may soon be fired from his job if he refuses to carry out a criminal order under the Kyiv City Administration or under any other administration. He'll be fired from his job, he'll have to pay off a multi-million dollar debt to the state for his training. Of course, from the beginning, from this rank of student, a person is already becoming a slave of the system of things. And in no case will the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom support this bill, which will further increase the pressure of criminal power on law enforcement. So today we need to think about how to finally get the state back to law enforcement. There are no law enforcement agencies in Ukraine. There are bodies that serve the criminal regime that do everything to ensure that the poor population, the pensioners who don't get a proper pension, the older people who don't get social security, the women who don't get a pension, they make them beggar because they don't have jobs and they don't have a pension. These people are all in a situation where they are protesting when they go to the Kiev City State Administration to finally call on this criminal authority to hold elections and to have a city head appear in Kiev to appear in Kiev as a deputy to protect their interests. These people are exposed to cosmonauts who are preyed upon in these armored vests and helmets that they don't care what to do, or to throw smoke checkers or something else, to commit crimes. And they remain unpunished. That is why we do not support this law, and we will fight for the establishment of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u52	Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u54	Come on, let's pass Mihalchino on to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u55	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which is currently being discussed in the session room, has a somewhat pretentious title: improving the human resources system of law enforcement agencies. At the same time, no one is asking the question: Is there really a law enforcement agency in Ukraine today? Do we have a system of organs that deserve to be defined as law enforcement? Because any normal notions of law, justice, law and order, officer honor, dignity and common sense are preserved. Yes, we do have a paradoxical situation in which law enforcement officials and searchers who deal with real crime and work in the field are living on a pitiful salary, at the same time as tens of millions of state funds are targeting the financing of the political gendarmerie, this is the special division of "Berkut" and, so-called, "cats" special divisions -- "Bars", "Yaguar", "Hepard", "Tiger". Or what else do you call yourself? The main function of political dispersal is the curbing of football supporters, the handling of protesting Ukrainians, and the crackdown on organized crime. In fact, in the system of internal affairs today, each special unit is essentially transformed into either the Praetorian Guard of the existing political regime, or simply into roofs for a particular type of criminal business. For no one is the secret that the Office for Countering the Illicit Traffic in Drugs does exactly what controls this drug cycle. The Office for Combating Organized Crime is doing just what organizes and makes it a powerful force. I would say in general that we have a situation in this way in the state that law enforcement is becoming an unorganized criminal organization, because real crime is much better organized, it has its lobby in law enforcement, in the courts, in the prosecutor's office, privatizing every branch of the law enforcement system, in fact, criminal capital, and leading to Ukrainians today trusting the law enforcement authorities of the least of all executive authorities. I would like to remind you here that the events of May 18th of this year in Kiev, when peaceful citizens are participating in the "Get up, Ukraine" campaign. – left the provocateur athletes and the unit of military technology, I personally placed in Kiev's headquarters of internal affairs one of these so-called athletes. What do you think the answer came to me from our "excellent" law enforcement? He was drawn to administrative responsibility. In conclusion, I want to say clearly and unequivocally: for the bill in question, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not vote. Respectful colleagues are urged to do the same. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u56	National deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u57	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. So society, for today there's actually a discussion, I'd like to go on with one word, one or two sentences, the question that I've been asking the reporter. The question is not that the principle we are now talking about is wrong or criminal. The question is about working for the state in the event of receiving an education at a budgetary cost. As for legal, medical, pedagogical workers, this is absolutely normal. A man has been divorced for five years, three years working in the state sphere. But now it's about the police, and now it's about funding internal affairs. The level of funding clearly states that Ukraine is gradually becoming more and more a police state. At this time, yesterday we literally held a round table from the initiative of our brothers Jurek Orotyuk at the National Security and Defence Committee. Virtually all military: generals, colonels, apostolics, today's military are talking about one thing: we don't have the resources to function, we don't have the normal security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What do we see instead? Instead, we see how many new waterworks are being used in Kharkiv to launch demonstrations, and we see, in fact, young officers, police sergeants, who will stand before the election are being held in the cabal today: either to execute a criminal order not to release deputies to the meetings of the Kyiv City Council, the Department of Internal Affairs, to any other subject, or to compensate the state 100,000 dollars for the fact that the person has gone and has given the honor of responding to the criminal commander. At this point, our position is fairly simple and understandable to any normal citizen. I emphasize the citizen, not the slave of the created system. The money that goes into financing the so - called law enforcement agencies today must be transferred to the financing of our Ukrainian army. So that in this room, when we ratify any international agreement on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent, we didn't claim that this is essentially one of the possible options for the normal functioning of the Armed Forces. What exists today is a clear sign of the police state. At the end of the day, there's a sensation known to all. The one who does not feed his army will feed a stranger. And whoever creates a police state in the middle to control his own people will get a decent response. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u58	The last speaker. Igor Miroshnichenko, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u59	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I think someone might be surprised that I am already the fifth freeman from this rostrum. But for people who know about "Freedom" as street political power, it's no wonder. That's why we, on our own skin, our supporters, our helpers and just Ukrainians, with whom we try to defend the right to local self-government, the right to decide which house to live in, the right to build, we feel on our own skin all the endowment of a militia that today the Party of Regions is trying to "protect" in such a bizarre way. Today we know clearly, and on our own example we prove that we don't have law enforcement agencies, we have repressive organs that protect the power that protect this regime. And it is this law that strengthens the fortitude of those who work in law enforcement. They may want to make an oath, but they do not have the power and the ability to do so. You know, it's not the first time I've been approached as a national deputy by a simple, private Berkutu staff from the Sumu district. The people who discovered corruption in the benches of "Berkut." Who have been told that 150 dollars from each police officer is being removed by a leader who is now subject to reprisals! And the head of the U.S.S. Department in Sumskia, called Malostan, who recorded 150 bracelets, continues to exercise his authority today. Instead, people who have complained put them together for three days in a row, not giving them a normal job, not torturing them. Can you imagine if they were forced to pay for their training if they were to be released?Oh, my God! Of course, a normal man will not go there! And those who are forced to serve this bandit authority will go. We are well aware that the authorities today use the militia as slaves to strengthen their regime. We understand that the police are now carrying out criminal orders rather than swearing or protecting the Constitution. A lot of examples. It is not just Kyivrada, where deputies are beaten, where national deputies are not allowed to enter the Kyivrada premises in order to carry out our duties. The militias look at us, they know us as national MPs, but they can't do anything! We have an example on May 8 when the members of the Party of Regions run the Berkutu bandits and run the brothers who beat the peace rallyers who honor the victims of World War II. We have examples of when the Horoli police, when I came to protect the innocent, tell us in our eyes, "We're going to let you go." She speaks humanly. And then the phone call and the person turns into a zombie, "What can I do? I was given that order." He understands that he is committing a crime, but there is nothing he can do. This is a system of law enforcement, and in fact no law enforcement, but funerals, as my brother Yuri Mikhalczyn said, are the bodies that are destroying any hope of fair trial today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u60	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u61	And to the righteous bodies that will protect you. We're afraid of the militia today. And that's why we're not going to support this bill. And that's why we want there to be justice in Ukraine and there to be real militias, not bandits in pursuits. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u62	Thank you. The discussion is over. Is there a closing word for the reporter? None. Does the coconspirator have a closing word? None. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking MPs to walk very slowly. We better get going. I'm betting on a draft bill (registering number 2050a) to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act to improve the internal affairs personnel system for adoption. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:52:59]] For 236 Against 61, held – 6, not voted – 78. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 172, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 16, Freedom - 0. Who's whistling? Ukraine's 30, non-faction 17. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (No. 2054a) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the calculation and registration of taxpayers is under consideration. How will we view it? Are you ready to vote in favour of the shorter procedure? Ready? I'll bet you a vote. [[16:54:57]] For-167 Against 68, held – 9, not voted – 147. Decision taken. The factions. Yes, reports Deputy Minister of Income and Congregations Ignatov Andri Petrovich. Please. You have two minutes. What? He prepares the budget and talks with foreign experts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill that is being tabled for your consideration aimed at facilitating business conditions in Ukraine. This is about further deregulation of entrepreneurial activities, simplification of formal procedures for induction of business. Our goal is for entrepreneurs to spend time and resources on their core activities, not on communication with government authorities. To that end, it is suggested that the tax payer’s certificate be changed to an added value, a statement from a corresponding register. Immediately after the registration, the payer data will be published on the official website of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. Entrepreneurs will have free and primary free access to this register. Statements can be ordered, received, and distributed electronically to government authorities and counterparties. The bill also provides that banks will also inform the income and tax authorities of the opening of accounts to taxpayers for one day, not three now. At the same time, the Ministry will charge the bills. We also propose that the payer cancel the obligation to report changes in his data to the supervisory authorities if they have been entered into the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will be given the opportunity to report all objects of taxation at the place of the main registration, not at the place where each of them is located, as provided for by the legislation in force. In accordance with the bill, every entrepreneur will be entitled to be a single taxpayer immediately from the moment of registration if he is not a VAT payer. In addition, we propose to simplify a number of other, equally important, procedural issues regarding the registration of single taxpayers. The adoption of this bill will allow us to take the next step in initiating and conducting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u64	Thank you, sit down. The report is headed by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! A bill submitted by the government aimed at simplifying business initiation procedures and ensuring free and free access to information from government registers that contain information about economic operators. In considering the bill, the committee noted the following. That we would need to take some positions into account when working on this project for the second reading. That is, the content of the bill leaves the order of publishing on these websites and getting information about registered taxpayers. Also in the event of the introduction of the bill’s mechanism to obtain tax withdrawals from the registers of taxpayers for their registration, there is a risk that taxpayers will be constantly required to apply for such withdrawals. So we're also going to need to work out and write more clearly procedural things, and we're going to have to point out that these are available on a free basis. We will also need to forward this bill with an adopted bill that will enter into force on January 1st next year, which provides for the certification of taxpayers. We passed this law, changes to the Tax Code for the last session. We also agreed with colleagues from other factions to work on the second reading of the rules that would improve the business environment, simplify registration procedures, conduct business, and do the work that we're going to have in our second reading, to add to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u66	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u67	As there is a good enough base here and the work that the National Deputies have on the Committee, we would unite together in this bill. Thank you for your attention. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and to work on the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u68	Thank you. Have a seat. Please register to discuss this matter from factions. Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u70	I'd like you to convey to the People's Deputy Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u71	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union on the first reading will support the bill as such, which only simplifies the procedure. But in general, we will make many adjustments for the second reading. Because, for example, we have claims and observations under article 97 of the Tax Code, which discusses the elimination of taxpayers. Today, we all know and see that tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who work honestly in our country today cannot obtain, cannot register on a tax return to obtain VAT. At this time, when the oligarchs and the nearby clans receive billions of dollars and VAT returns, it is automatic. These are the great problems that arise today and in this bill there are far more crevices to keep it from doing anything. And we ask, we will be supporting in the first reading today, and on the second reading, we will be making a lot of changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u72	Thank you. The Chechtov People's Deputy Party. Will you be speaking in public?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u73	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill developed by the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine to implement paragraphs 2 and 3 of the plan of action to increase Ukraine's World Bank and International Finance Corporation ratings, approved at the government meeting on 30 January 2013. The bill is aimed at simplifying business initiation procedures and ensuring free and free access to information from government registers containing information about economic operators. The bill provides for such changes to the Tax Code. The first is a reduction in the time limit for the notification by banks and other financial institutions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Revenue and Congregations of the opening of tax payers’ accounts, as well as the time limit for the notification by the authorities of the Ministry of Revenue and the Ukrainian congregations of financial institutions of collection or refusal to take such accounts into account. The second publication on a single web portal of information on the collection of the subject of accounting in the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, their registration as taxpayers of added value taxes, including as subjects of a special tax regime and a single tax. Third. Cancelling the need to obtain a certificate of payment of the added value tax, including the subject of a special tax regime and the sole tax guarantee of the taxpayer’s right to receive an extract from the relevant register at the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine. Today, it is established by the Code that the authorities of the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine are obliged to issue a business subject, an application for registration of a tax payer for the added cost, and a single tax for the absence of grounds for refusal of registration. In addition, the bill proposes to amend certain rules of the Code on individual matters of taxation and registration of taxpayers. The faction of the Party of the Regions suggests that the session hall support the government's bill and vote on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u74	Thank you. Vitalia Klicka faction, Pober People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u75	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u76	Please give it to Oksana for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u77	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! What does this bill propose? First, it is envisaged to introduce a single register of taxpayers, a register of single taxpayers, a register of each tax, separate registers that will be posted on the Ministry of Income and Assembly website. For every payer who has ever faced problems when refused to accept a declaration in connection with his absence, he is not a payer, the existence of such a register as taxpayers for the added value of others is very important. The important thing is that this register is open. The project also foresees the responsibility of the Ministry of Income and Congregations to update the register daily. That's one of the positive things about the project. In addition, the project provides for a single, basic accounting location whereby an entrepreneur, a taxpayer, will be obliged to pay and report. The time of registration is reduced from the time of the public registration to the time of receipt of the tax payer’s certificate, not the certificate, but the entry into the register of the tax service, including the relationship with the banks. The only thing I would like to point out is Andrew Petrovich, who reported this question. Nowhere in the project is it written that extracting from the register will be free of charge. So I'm asking the Ministry of Income and Assembly to support our amendments to the second reading so that we can actually guarantee the second reading, firstly, the free withdrawal from registers, secondly, the availability of each taxpayer to all tax payers' registers, and thirdly, to resolve the issues that today are from administration not only the added value tax but also all the other taxes. We're going to support this project, as it corresponds to Vitaly Klicka's strike program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u78	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy. You have a minute, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u79	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think it was the elimination of Minzdhu (Ministry of Revenue and Congregations) that the best gift to tax payers was the elimination of Minzdho. You're from a simple job that stands on the market, that barely feeds your family, you're pulling three skins. And companies that belong to Arbuzov, Kurchenka, who belong to Klimenko, don't pay billions, especially from the sale of fuel-oil smuggling materials. And that's why I'm addressing the President of Ukraine with a demand, this whole fraternity called "family" today. What kind of family is this? It's not a family, it's a Cossack Nostra, who's stealing from Ukraine, which's linked to criminality, you're smuggling, you're not paying taxes. And this is covered by who is Minzdh (Ministry of Income and Congregations). And that's why I'm calling on President Yanukovic to: the government of Azarov -- retired, Klimenka -- retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, all wishing to speak. I'm out, I'm out, I'm out, I'm out. That's why I'm asking you to sit down. Prepare to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. We will vote. Please. I'm betting on a draft bill of 2054 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the calculation and registration of taxpayers. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. Oleg Lazko, vote! But you called for a vote for the law. [[17:09:13]] For 337 Against 0, held – 4, not voted – 51. Decision taken. The factions. When you do that, Oleg Valeriyovich, you consult with the factions. Look at the way they vote! A draft Act, number 2258a, on amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the order of business opening is under consideration. How do MPs want to address this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] I hear the procedure's been shortened. Please vote for the reduced procedure. Please. [[17:10:17]] For 172 Against 65, holding – 8, not voting – 147. Decision taken. The factions. I invite the Head of the State Service for Regulatory Policy and Development of Mr. Mikhail Yuriovich Brodsky to report. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u81	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I suggest you consider a little deregulation for the Ukrainian business. In almost all countries of the world, except North Korea and Belarus, seals were refused. It's only in Ukraine that we've been trying to do about the third time in the last three years, just like all the countries that want business to develop, so people don't spend too much time registering their businesses and protecting their businesses. Because we all know there's no problem in the 20th century -- forging a seal. I ordered a stamp on the Internet from Belarus, $41, and by mail he came to us, there's no problem today, only a signature, a personal signature protects, protects his own property, protects his business. The change in seals will allow people not to spend too much time — two days and spend too much money. Anyone who wants can have their own seal. I think that big business is going to leave a seal, because they're probably going to be comfortable or comfortable. I propose to support this bill, it's the third time, I'll report it myself. As far as I can tell. Well, unfortunately, he's going to go through second reading, and I would immediately vote in general because the Ukrainian business, two million people are waiting for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u82	Thank you. Have a seat. Please invite the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Politics, Alexander Volodymyrý Kugel, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u83	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The example that Mr. Brodsky gave should immediately reveal a criminal case. Because according to the legislation in force today for you to order a seal, you have to draw it, then go to the police, pay for it, and then only by registering the companies that make it, you get a stamp. But in what he said right, it doesn't protect you that you can't do as he said. I can tell you that the biggest question in recording is the question of counterfeiting seals. And all the civilized countries of the world have long given the owner: either the state, or the entrepreneur, to explain to themselves how he runs his own business, which has a seal (although a fingerprint of his own) or a word of honor, and he is responsible for the violation or otherwise through the courts. What is so good about this bill? They cancel the requirements for the promotion of the registration congregation; in keeping with the law that they have just passed in the first reading, it is possible to register without sealing in the form of an electronic signature. That is, it improves the entrepreneurial climate. But again, Vladimir Vasilovich, to you and to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two bills from the government of the same text: a bill that has the same number 2795 (government) as we are currently considering. We have on the committee two government bills on natural monopolies of the same text. And so by addressing you as the decision of the committee to report that we are asking for support on the basis of this bill. I'm asking the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u85	I appeal to the government to repeal Bill 2795 as analogous. And please note that you appreciate your fellow workers, not by the number of bills that have been passed, but by the quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u86	Thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up for a faction discussion. Please. Freedom, People's MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u87	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Regarding the relevant bill, opinions may vary. Clearly, what is happening now with the permit system, including those seals, is causing just, I emphasize, fair indignation on all subjects of entrepreneurial activity. And trying to simplify and allow people to speed up the process and simplify it, all they need to do is to improve their greetings. But. This is where "but" comes in. Unfortunately, our CPC is not expected to be equivalent to the responsibility for counterfeiting a signature (e-signature or seal). And without changing the CPC, we risk breaking the same seals, creating a precedent and the possibility of mass falsification of all other means of identifying the subject of entrepreneurial activity. So this bill we have to adopt in the context of previous laws and changes, then it sounds absolutely right. And now, by removing, for example, seals, we're opening up the possibility of abuse, including by the authorities. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, first of all, is grateful that people see that there is a problem, but they will not support this bill in the way it is. We have to put the horse first, and then the wagon; first, we have to change the KPC, and then we have to change the legislation accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u88	Alexander Volodymyrna, does Stojko give you a voice? It doesn't. So by the Rules, let all the representatives speak, and in the end, I'll give you an opinion as chairman of the committee. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, Stoyko, the National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Ivan Stojko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please, Kseniya Lupini, give me the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u90	Please, Xenia Lapinius, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. We will certainly support this bill as a basis, because there is a small step to meet entrepreneurs. But it offends me when the government presents this tiny step as some kind of panacea or as some big step in the fight for improving the business climate. In fact, the government solves problems that do not exist and refuses to solve problems that are actually present for entrepreneurs today. We've just heard that the main problem of raiding is seals. Now, dear fellows, believe me, if today's seals are forged, they'll be falsifying signatures tomorrow. The problem is not whether it's a seal or not. The problem is that there are sales courts, sales expertise, selling law enforcement. That's the problem with raiding. And as long as we don't solve it, nothing really will change. Still, I do not see any need to hold on to the seals. Because I want to remind you that 2 million private entrepreneurs, I emphasize, have been working since the beginning of their existence without having to have seals. And as we can see, there is no big difference in the problems of private businesses or private companies that work with seals today. So let me stress, we're going to vote on this law. But, Your Honor, you don't have to say that this is some kind of cardinal step that something.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u92	Thank you. People's Deputy Rosenco, Vitalia Klitschak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u93	Jaroslav Hinka will be speaking from the strike faction. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u94	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u95	Thank you. Jaroslav Hinka, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. The political party SHOCK considers that one of the main ways in which Ukraine's economic development is by supporting small and medium-sized businesses in setting up entrepreneurial activities and engaging in investment. Although not entirely, the bill significantly reduces the burden on the process of creating new subjects of economic activity. It's not just about costing and shortening of registration terms, it's about moving to new technologies when you give them documents. To some extent, the abuse of officials will reduce. I want to remind reporters and colleagues that, thank God, for the fourth year of government, the government has finally passed a similar bill. Because we remember that a bill on the availability or mandatory availability of seals was submitted to Parliament as early as 2009. Finally this bill returned to the walls of Parliament. But not the issue of sealing is the main issue in this bill. The most important thing is that we can use new technologies on the issue, document submission by electronic means, and non-binding electronic signatures. This reduces the pressure of government officials, and in turn reduces, well, not so much to root out this issue, but reduces the possibility of corruption in registering owners, which is what they are struggling with, and fights the impact faction. I want to point out one of the most important points, is that by adopting this pro-European bill, Ukraine will be able to go to a rather higher place in the investment attractiveness rating, which, in turn, will allow us to invest even more, because we are now having a hard time in the country right now. That's why the strike party will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u96	The faction of the Party of the Regions. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, this bill is an improvement in business conditions. Of course, the government cannot solve everything. But if it takes concrete, concrete steps to improve the climate for business, it is to be welcomed. This bill does not solve all questions. So since the government is in favour of, the profile committee is in favour of, in the profile committee, representatives of different factions, our faction will also vote in favour. And those remarks that were made by the national deputies are easy for all to take into account in the second reading. So I urge the MPs to support the government's initiative and the committee's profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u98	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Everyone hears that I'm inviting you to prepare for the vote? I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2258a) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the procedure for opening up business as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:24:05]] For 307 Against 0, held – 37, not voted – 48. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 169, Fatherland - 57, Vitalia Klicka - 32, Freedom - 0, Company - 27, non-fractional - 22. The draft Law (No. 2536a, 2536a-1) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on reforming the public administration system in the field of road economy is under consideration. How do MPs want to address this issue? Please vote, who's in favour of the shorter procedure? Please vote. [[17:25:13]] For-179 Against 71, held – 14, not voted – 126. Decision taken. The factions. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk. And then Vladimir Vasilovich Kozak, Minister of Infrastructure. Please. Short procedure, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u99	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. My bill concerns road transport and road transport. And now they're going to ask any person why we're so expensive, they're going to say -- they're going to steal a lot. And why they steal is because all the conditions are created for them to steal. And today's opposition to this bill requires the elimination of the Autodora monopoly. We suggest that the rights and responsibilities of the State Administration be clearly defined and defined by the local road authorities, clearly delimited by the powers of the central and local executive authorities. And the purpose of the bill is to bring the public administration system of road traffic in line with modern market competitive conditions. Well, competitive conditions, we think that's one of the steps in terms of being able to improve the quality of roads and reduce the cost of maintaining them. Determining the powers of central and local executives and their responsibility for the transport and operation of public and local roads and optimizing state regulation in this area. Our bill foresees that we divide and set different balances, and we will make it possible to manage and create the necessary conditions to improve the state of these roads, the quality of these roads. We hope that once a portion of the roads emerges locally on the balance of local self - government, construction and rural roads will also take place, and we are confident that this will be the basis for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u100	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u101	increase traffic safety. Yet, let us not forget that we are a transit state, but that transit is impossible when there is no light or quality coverage in the corridor. Thank you for your attention and please support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u102	Thank you. The word is given to Vladimir Vasilovich Kozak, Minister of Infrastructure. And you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u103	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the government to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system. The main purpose of the law is to clearly distinguish between the powers of central and local authorities in the administration of roads of general use. The law is designed to take account of the experience of EU countries. In virtually all countries of Europe local roads are run by local authorities. So far, we've been running state and local roads for the general use of the Krauttodor. In our view, we cannot make decisions from Kiev about how long and how fast the roads between us are. This is better done by local authorities who are closer to people and better know the socio-economic needs of the region. The bill proposes to decentralize public authorities, to transfer local authorities to local authorities with appropriate funding. Let me draw that out. together with appropriate funding. For this purpose, changes are made to the Ukrainian Roads Act, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the Local Government Administrations Act. Thus, the amendments to articles 10, 11 and 12 of the Ukrainian Roads Act recognize the new system of road administrations and clearly separate their powers. In particular, mini-infrastructures shape public policy in the field of road agriculture and road management. The "Kravtodor" implements public policy in the field of road agriculture, drives public roads. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district and sevastopol city administrations, administer local highways. The state security policy on land transport is being implemented by the UK Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u104	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u105	It implements national security policy on land transport and controls the quality of road construction. Taking into account the opinion of the Committee, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u106	Thank you, sit down. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Ruslan Mikolaiovich Solvar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u107	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications at its meeting on 4 September 2013 considered alternative drafts of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Reforming the System of State Administration in the Field of Road Traffic (Registration No. 2536a), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Katerinczuk, and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the reform of the road traffic management system (Registration No. 2536a) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As a result of their consideration, the committee notes that unlike the alternative bill (number 2536a-1), there is a distribution of the powers of the relevant authorities to control the condition of paid road traffic in general use of state and local importance. The same bill proposes to supplement Ukraine's Roads Act with a new article 32-1, which specifies the order of alerting users to road users on the general use of the emergency condition, the condition of road coverage, temporary restrictions or the cessation of traffic. Bill No. 2536a-1 also provides for the specificization of executive authorities that propose the listing of public roads and the placing of the road in general to pay. According to the committee, the new editions of articles 10 and 11 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act have been proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u108	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u109	corresponds to the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities. As a result of the discussion at the meeting, the committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the system of road traffic management (Registration No. 2536a-1), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u110	Thank you, sit down. People's deputies would like to sign up for a faction discussion. Learn how to sign up for the performance. Each time, the "Freedom" union is the first. They're working. Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u111	Please pass the word to Anatoly Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u112	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u113	Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Volin. Although the bill contains positive points regarding the distribution of powers between the three authorities — local self - government, district administrations, and state highways — there is a significant observation. First, it is unacceptable to exclude article 13 of the Roads Act, which excludes the responsibility of public authorities to control roads in general. This means that all the positive aspects of the distribution of powers between the three authorities are being eliminated, since it will not be possible to bring those responsible to justice. And the next. People won't be able to go to court in case of an accident or something. And the next. A major disadvantage for both bills is the lack of justification, the financing of those projects. So we're going to transfer roads to district administrations right now, but we're not transferring funds to management. So the roads will now be in charge, part of the highways in the competence of the district councils and administrations, but there is no funding. So this is a matter that needs to be resolved. So Freedom is ready to support the draft law in the first reading with a mandatory second reading amendment to finance the repairs and maintenance of those roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u114	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u115	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. The urgency of this bill, I think everyone understands. What's going on in the hall today? Well, they're saying that my bill better defines the elements of responsibility. This calls for opposition to take responsibility for those responsible for road safety, and these roads have eventually been built. Similarly, opposition demands that there be a end to corruption that is accompanied by all these building works. Our 37 - article bill sets out everything that relates to transfer and money, including district councils. No, it's not. I don't think there's an argument about our bill. Yes, indeed, the concept that the opposition bill contains is actually a government bill. And it would be logical for us to have our ambitions here a little bit, let's say, suppress them, and yet come out with a normal only bill that will systematically stop that wave of corruption that is accompanied by corruption. Still, we fight for people's lives, we want our roads to be good, European, and they start with a change in the structure of road management. I am convinced that the entire opposition will support this legislative initiative and I am confident that the Party of Regions should also think about the right proposals that are in the government bill. I think if these two bills don't get in the first reading, let's say the required number of votes, then vote, send them out for the first time. For the first time rereading the committee. Thank you for your attention, and the "Paternity" faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u116	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u117	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u118	Sergey Kaplin is given the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u119	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka political party, Poltava 144th constituency. In Ukraine, as is known in Russia, there are two problems: fools and roads. The first problem, I hope, is that we will partially decide when we resign Azarov. And the second problem is more complicated. In a year, we raise about a billion dollars to repair Ukrainian roads. But imagine, it's just 200 kilometers of roads. What do we want to do now? Grandkids, great-grandkids or great-grandchildren are to be held accountable for the fact that someone has been stealing money from the Ukrainian people for 20 years that should be directed towards systemic infrastructure projects that should not have been robbed by those who lead the Kuravtododors. We've got every other manager in the district of Kravutodora running abroad after the new government comes. This is unacceptable, today, on the eve of the presidential campaign, on the eve of future parliamentary campaigns and local elections, to translate responsibility from various Azarians and Yanks on the shoulders of city heads and those who today, even those who are today not city heads, but the banal guards of the Party of Regions in separate cities, such as, in my district, the city's Mamiev head, who, by the way, and the Party of Regions know this by repairing the road in Poltava, buys not a cube and bitumen for 10 percent more than the manufacturer, not 20 percent, not 30 percent, but twice: 200 percent. Think of the extent of this plunder of the Ukrainian people! Under these conditions, with the lack of resolution of the question of the transparency of tenders, of the responsibility for the quality of these roads, we will never have the Ukrainian road. So we strongly believe that in order to solve this systemic problem, the infrastructure problem, we need to sit down, we need to roll up our sleeves -- and we need to create a document that will solve this problem. And of course, responsibility is inevitable.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u120	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u121	to shoulder the responsibility of those who have built themselves larger than the leadership of the factions who sit here from the majority, the leaders of the kuratodors. These are the first regional oligarchs. Therefore, the roads must start with the police, throwing those who robbed the Ukrainian people into prison and then making roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u122	Thank you. Sergei, Sergei, the roads, the truth is, we don't care. And what you said first, we don't have any in Ukraine. Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Gordienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u123	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. At the beginning, I'm going to say that we're only going to support the government bill in the first reading. I'd like to stop at the next one. Of course, roads should have their host and their transfer to the local level should mobilise local authorities and more fundamentally defend the position of the central executive authorities regarding the maintenance and financing of these roads. But I have great doubt that if we do. And my colleagues. If we hand over roads, we hand over authority, and we don't hand over funding, it's not going to work out, and it's going to be like the local government: there's a mass of power delegated by the state, but it's not going to be financed, and of course there's not going to be any government or self-government, and there's not going to be a solution. Therefore, along with the transfer of authority, we need to consider today those sources of funding that will be put on. For maintenance. Construction and maintenance of these roads. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today road infrastructures, which are places, are experiencing absolutely no better times, since virtually no circulation costs are available, no road repairs and regulations are carried out. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a permanent problem of debt on the wages of road workers. It's making things worse by blocking the accounts of the Treasury. And finally, let's give the public an answer as to how much we're collecting at the price of gasoline these exact costs, whether they're enough and if they're all going on the road. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u124	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote, national MPs. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2536a), which is a draft of the Bill of People's Deputies of Mikola Dmitrovitch Katerinczuk, amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reforming the public administration system in the field of road agriculture. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:45:08]] For 111 Against three, held 52, not 218. The decision is not taken. The factions. The factions. We've read it. I'd like to have your attention again. The draft Law (number 2536a-1) is put to the vote. Governmental Bill, reported the Minister of Infrastructure Kozak Vladimir Vasilovich. Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the public administration system in the field of road agriculture. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:46:17]] For 261 Against 7, held – 32, did not vote – 84. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 176, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 3, Freedom - 33, Company - 30, non-fractional - 18. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our session for 15 minutes. No, no, yeah. A draft Law (No. 2749) on State aid to landowners is under consideration. How would you like to view it? I'll bet you a shorter procedure. Please vote. [[17:47:19]] For-174 Against 71, held – 8, did not vote – 132. Decision taken. The factions. We've read it. So I invite you to report to the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Raphael Ismailovich Kuzmin. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u125	Honorary Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, a bill on State aid to economic operators has been developed to implement the 2013 National Action Plan, the Presidential Economic Reform Programmes and the commitments of Ukraine as defined in the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. State aid to economic operators is usually intended to solve socio-economic problems. Stimulating innovation, developing depressed regions, increasing the competitiveness of sectors and economies in general. At the same time, State intervention in the functioning of the market for the benefit of individual sectors or for the benefit of individual enterprises can distort competition. And so far, there is no control over the impact of state aid on competition. The purpose of the law is to create legal and institutional principles for a transparent system of control and monitoring of state aid to operators. Which should strike a balance between the positive effect of State aid and the negative effects of distortions of competition. The main tasks of the bill are to monitor the impact of State aid on competition, to compile and maintain a register of information on state aid provided, to prepare annual reports on state aid and to publish these reports. The law has both material and procedural standards. It is very well applied to European legislation. It was created by an antitrust committee and European experts from the European Commission. Well, we understand clearly that if you support it in the first reading, we will, with the help of the Antimonopoly Policy and Entrepreneurship Committee, create a working group and align it with all the political forces. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u126	Thank you. Have a seat. A report by the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! In every civilized country, the Antimonopoly Committee is the most important control body. No taxes. Because this committee has to create and control the most important: to develop the business of any, to prevent usurpation by the authorities of all businesses and different directions. And that's why the direction that the Antimonopoly Committee is opening today is we're creating legislation on the condition that we do get back and get the Antimonopoly Committee more independent functions that were envisaged when it was created. What is most important in this committee? This is fully in line with the European world practice of applying control to the Antimonopoly Committee for the Use of Budget Assistance in Different Directions. For example, some government wants one of the deputies or those who are close to the authorities to make such a direct contribution to the development of government funds. He has no right to receive these costs until the Antimonopoly Committee finds that this direction cannot be developed, this direction is competitive, and he can create a state where business at its own expense develops this direction. They should help to make such a move, such as for shipbuilding, not for private companies, to develop other trends that may develop without public funds. It's an important bill. It's a small cost to the state compared to how much they steal from that budget. And the committee believes that it should be supported in the first reading. We received comments from the Committee of Entrepreneurs. We will consider them on a second reading. In general, we ask the committee to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u128	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Please register with the faction. Please, strike faction, Novak, national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u129	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Hinzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u130	Let's give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u131	Jaroslav Hinka, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Thank you. An extremely important bill. I support my colleague's point is that if we are moving towards the European principles of business leading to the signing of the Association Agreement and to European co-operation, we need to adopt this bill. What's the main point here? The point is that we're helping to audit and monitor the use of budget funds. What is the key to this? We are creating a level playing field for business, and this is the basis for honest business in European Ukraine. I think we need to support this bill. The strike faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u132	The Freedom faction of the People's Deputy, Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u133	Please pass the word to Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u134	Please pass the word to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u135	The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, Paul Kirilenko, Atonement. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law (2749) proposes to create a transparent system of state aid for economic operators to minimize the negative effects of State aid on competition. This is, of course, a very positive declaration because it has to contribute to the development of competition in our country. It's supposed to help develop the middle class in our state, and in fact, the middle class is the guarantee of a rich, just society. Therefore, it is important that this law be beautiful not only by form but also by content. Unfortunately, as often happens in the walls of this Parliament, positive declarations conceal corruption. Evidently, some oligarchic circles near power today will be able to use certain elements of the bill. So we stress the need to make substantial changes and additions to this bill in a second reading. In the first reading, we will support this bill because it is aimed at European integration and is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u136	Thank you. All of them wanted to speak in the discussion. Please be prepared. Why didn't you sign up? Please Xenia Leapini minute. On the grounds, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u137	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. "Paternity" will support this bill in the first reading. Because first of all, it's actually a Euro-Integration Bill. More than many others have been declared. And in the form of preparation, this is actually the victory of the European vector over Asian, which used to be the distribution of budget funds among private businesses associated with power. That's why it's the victory of our European integration -- that this bill is now being considered and approved. I want the electorate to know that this bill is not meant to distribute budget money to people in private business, but rather to severely limit the possibility that any aid will never destroy competition in the market and that it is not burdensome for a government budget that is shaped by citizens' taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u138	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2749) on State aid to operators for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:57:42]] For 327 Against - 0, held - 0 did not vote - 53. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 167, Fatherland - 49, Vitaly Klicka - 27, Freedom - 32, Company - 30, non-fractional - 22. A draft Law (No. 2750) on amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for state aid to operators) is under consideration. How do we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Do not scream, but vote for the reduced procedure. I hear your suggestions. Vote! [[17:58:40]] For-167 Against 57, held – 14, not a vote – 140. Decision taken. The factions, please. Reports the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Rafael Ismailovich Kuzmin. Please. And then he's the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u139	Thank you for your support, distinguished national deputies. This is a bill relating to the previous amendment to article 35 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which will help prevent the allocation of funds from the State Budget and local budgets for state aid to economic operators, which may lead to a substantial distortion of competition. Since the previous law is in force three years later, these changes are also proposed to be put into effect three years later. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u140	Thank you, sit down. Please, for the co-report, Güller Evgeny Borisovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u141	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on September 18th considered a government bill amending article 35 of the 2750 Budget Code. According to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, this bill needs to be finalized. In particular, the bill uses an incorrect reference to the yet to be adopted Law on State Aid to Owners. So the adoption of the 2750 bill should be preceded by the adoption of the corresponding bill number 2749, which we adopted in the first reading. At the same time, the issues raised in the bill can be addressed through the introduction of the necessary requirements for the preparation of budgetary requests approved for the implementation of the Budget Code. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. Taking into account the comments made by GNEU and the need to take into account the final drafting of the basic bill number 2749 after its adoption, the committee adopted the following decision: Recommending to the Supreme Council a bill of 2750 to be adopted on the basis of the budget committee’s mandate to prepare it for second reading and to submit it to the Supreme Council after the adoption of the whole bill on State aid to host subjects number 2749. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u142	Shall we vote? Shall we? I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2750) amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for state aid to operators) for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:02:05]] For 321 Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote - 52. Decision taken. The factions. The final question for today that we will consider. Calm down! We have 13 minutes left. This is the first reading, based on government. We need to respect the ministers who come to us. The draft Law (No. 2327) on the Insurance Insurance Fund for Life Insurance Contracts is under consideration. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it full? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote for the cut-off. [[18:03:14]] For 171 I'll ask you. If you don't talk, we'll vote. 171, versus 59, held – 5, not voted – 127. Decision taken. The factions. I invite you to report to the head of the National Commission (he's sitting here in the south without a job, let him at least report) who is in charge of national regulation in the field of financial services markets Boris Josephovich Vizorov. We'll get to know each other. Please. Two minutes for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u143	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Life Insurance Insurance Fund bill was developed by the National Commission, which regulates the national financial services markets in the implementation of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Economic Reform Programme, as well as the Concept for the Protection of Consumers' Rights, Financial Services Markets, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Concluded and supported by the National Bank of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking. Life insurance refers to personal insurance, long-term insurance, and a significant savings component, so it is essential to provide a life insurance insurance system in Ukraine. Such a system should prevent the loss of long-term savings and the loss of insurance in the event of insolvent insurance. The draft Act regulates guarantees of insurance payments, the legal status of the fund and its governing bodies, the formation of the fund's assets, the manner in which payments are made to the fund's funds. In the event of insolvency, the insurance company guarantees insurance or life insurance benefits or the ransom provided for in the life insurance contract. All insurance companies that have been licensed to conduct life insurance should participate in the fund. The main sources of fund formation are: buy-in contributions from Fund participants, regular and special contributions from Fund participants, income derived from investing funds from the Fund in government securities. The cost of the state budget is not the source of the fund’s resources. The funds will be stored at the National Bank of Ukraine, invested exclusively in securities, government securities. Dear National Deputies! The expected outcome of the bill is to strengthen the protection of the property rights of insurers, and to increase confidence in the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u144	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u145	Increasing confidence in the life insurance market. And as a result, the creation of Ukraine's internal long-term investment resource. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u146	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Finance, the banking activities of Andrija Pavlovich Pinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u147	Dear colleagues, the bill was widely discussed on the committee and was, in principle, supported by market professionals and representatives of government bodies. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, in its conclusion, notes that the bill submitted can be accepted as a basis. In principle, the only thing I would like to say is that we already have one mechanism of the Fund to guarantee the investments of individuals working in the banking sector. If we do this right in the insurance sector, we will greatly increase people's confidence in life insurance, which is long-term. The committee therefore proposes to support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u148	Are there speakers? I can't see. The Freedom Union says, "Let's vote." I'll put it to a vote. Please be prepared. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who wants to do this? Two minutes, Freedom faction, People's Deputy Kyle. The rules have to be followed. You're all gone, and then I get anonymous. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear fellow MPs, the project proposes to define the principles for the functioning of the Life Insurance Fund. Does the bill provide for the creation of a foundation that will be necessary for the admission of such??, i.e. making life insurance in insurance companies before making life insurance contracts. The source of the formation of the assets of the new structure will be the contribution of life insurance companies of 0.4 percent. Overall, the practice of creating guarantee funds has demonstrated its effectiveness both in the European Union and in Ukraine in the example of the Banking Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Motor Transport Bureau. Therefore, its creation and functioning will provide additional guarantees to protect the rights of consumers of insurance services. However, some provisions of the law need substantial refinement. In particular, the order of liquidation of such a fund and the order of formation of the executive organs of the entire fund. The order of government control of the Fund (article 24 of this project) should also be more detailed. There are a number of comments to this bill. But given the necessity and urgency of adopting decisions to protect our citizens, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will vote in favour of this bill as a basis, but requires adjustments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-08-m1.u150	Thanks for the offer. I'm betting on the vote on the bill (number 2327) on the Insurance Fund for Life Insurance Contracts to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:10:15]] For 247 Against the 4th, held to 30, not voted 67. The factions. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'll invite you all to the session room. Thanks for the job.
