ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:57]] It was registered in the 347 National Deputies Hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of matters of the order of the day. We decided at the meeting this morning what questions we should consider today. So I'm asking for your attention, so I'm introducing a draft decree (number 2522a) to mark the 25th anniversary of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Willing to Discuss? Please vote on the summary procedure. [[16:03:29]] For 202 Against 30, held – 4, not voted – 128. Decision taken. This is Kunicin reporting, please. The factions. Yeah, why am I then, Sergey Volodymyrovich, why am I asking this question if your block isn't voting? Let me take it off. [[B in m in s a l in]] No one votes like that. Let's see how the factions voted. Region Party 154, Fatherland 13, Vitalia Klitka Strike 0, Freedom 0, Company 28. I'll take off the question now. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's been going on here for 25 years? What will you consider? Please report, Series Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies, is 25 years old from the end of the Afghan War on February 15, the following year. 160,000 Ukrainians fought in Afghanistan: 3.5 thousand died, 9,000 became disabled. Today, 25 years after the end of the war, 8 times the death rate in Afghanistan — 25,000 people died after the Afghan war. The average age of an Afghan veteran is 49 years. One in four became disabled after the war. Today, there were 3.5 thousand families in Ukraine, 741 widows, and more than 1,000 children. Within 25 years, a third of the parents died. Of the 3,500 parents whose children died in Afghanistan, 2,466 were left. Of the 741 widows, 639 remained. Today, the pension of the mother who lost her child in this war amounts to 1,400 dollars. Is it not a shame for our country to lose a child? Disabled 1 group of Afghan wars gets a pension of 2,600 dollars. And we've put forward a draft decree that this date should be marked at the state level, and hopefully the MPs who went through this war, we have 10 deputies in this call that formed the Afghan veterans for the future. We made a proposal, at the state level, to mark this date. Twenty - eight thousand Afghan families have no apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u4	Twelve thousand don't have cars, 28,000 don't have apartments. And I think we would like the Afghan veterans to be the last Ukrainian veterans to go through this war. And I hope that all the factions will support us, especially since a week ago a presidential decree was issued that the following year in Ukraine should be a year of respect for members of hostilities in other states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u5	That's it, thank you. The report is by Yavorivsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich. And then I'm going to ask you to put it to a vote, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski. In this case, I am acting as the head of a subcommittee on memory dating at the all - Ukrainian level. Of course, I am convinced that we should normally discuss this in full procedure, but as a decision has been made, it has been made. We just have to remind people that it was a terrible, unjust, political mistake of the leadership back then. My little village in Winnitzkin, where there were, in fact, 180 houses, is now much smaller. At the cemetery, I was recently in the memorial days in my village, at the cemetery of six of the boys who were brought to zinc graves from Afghanistan. This war was truly unjust and cruel, and that is why we need to talk about it. Because I can now, when I came to this rostrum, I remembered that in the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union in 1989, Andry Sakharov, this little man, who was recently released from this house arrest in Lower Novgorod and then Gorkim, if I'm not mistaken. He went up to the rostrum and started demanding, and in the hall there were fed our generals rosy, secretaries of the committees then and so on, and when this man started saying what we were doing, let's pull out the troops, because it's a fatal mistake, there's nothing for us to do, there's nothing for us to do, there's no interest for the Afghans to win in their territory, he talked about it. And when Gorbachev screamed at him and almost threw him out of the rostrum, yet the decision was made at that time. We voted for him then, there were enough votes, and we started getting people out of Afghanistan. Because I think it was a disgraceful page, because so many people for completely misunderstood interests to put young boys and so many lives, obviously no one had a moral right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u7	Thank you. You said everything, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on a draft decree (number 2225a) to mark Ukraine's 25th anniversary of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:11:10]] For 351 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 36. Decision taken. Why did you scream like that? The hall was identified by 350 deputies. By the factions, let's see if everyone voted, okay? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2013 is under consideration (to ensure the continuous functioning of the relevant state registers). Please report to the Ukrainian National MP Pressman. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[16:12:58]] For 186 That's not what the colonel general's callin'. "For" – 186, against – 39, held – 8, did not vote – 157. Decision taken. Report, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u8	The main objective of the draft law is to address the financing problem in the second half of 2013 of state registers held by the Ministry of Justice and Ukdrjreestre, and to ensure that they function by increasing expenditure from the state budget special funds for 2013. The Ministry of Justice is the holder of 14 registers that ensure the implementation of tasks related to the registration of immovable property rights, civil status acts, citizens' associations, political parties, media, legal acts, etc. The state budget for the first half of 2013 provided 316 million, 255,000 dollars, which came to the special fund of the Ministry of Justice for six months. At present, the information center has provided 317 million dollars to state companies, already exceeding the planned revenues. In the second half, however, there is no State Budget Special Fund for State Registers. Since article 11, paragraph 12, of the 2013 budget stated that the fees for receiving information from State registers held by the Ministry of Justice and Ukdrjreest were only due to the Ministry of Justice until July 1, 2013. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that by the end of this year, government registrations should continue to be financed at the expense of the state budget special fund. Coming to the Munich special fund in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u10	proposes a budget allocation for the Special Fund of the State Budget for the second half of 2013 for $364 million,545 thousand. Of these, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the functioning of the state registers, with an i354 million 545 thousand dollars, and for ensuring the functioning of state registers, which are owned by the Ministry of Justice, for 10,000 dollars. Well, that's all. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u11	Budget Committee head Eugene Borisovich Geller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones. The bill provides for the proper functioning in the second half of 2013 of state registers held by the Ministry of Justice and the State Registration Service. It is proposed to increase the budget allocations of the Ministry of Justice by 364.5 million dollars under the special budget fund of the State budget, according to the budget programmes under which the registered registers are carried out. At the same time, there is also an increase in the amount of revenue from the special government budget fund in part of the budget’s own revenue, which is paid for receiving information from government registers. So the bill's position is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The main scientific and expert office pointed out that the bill could be adopted. In doing so, it should be noted that the bill is similar to the 2055 bill tabled by the Government, which was considered by the Budget Committee at its June 5th meeting and decided on its support on the basis and generally as a law with observations regarding the reconciliation of budgetary indicators. In view of the above, if the Supreme Council supports the bill on the basis and generally as a law, it is necessary to clarify the aggregated figures of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget in the text of the bill and its addenda in accordance with the current version of the State Budget 2013 Act, taking into account the changes adopted by the Supreme Council on 21 May by the law on 283 and other similar laws adopted for the consideration of the bill. For the stenographer, I'll say that they're very specific. refinement is essential for ensuring compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u14	For the transcript, I note that such refinements are required to ensure that the State Budget figures are balanced. Accordingly, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text and addenda to the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u15	What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u16	Take as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u17	People's deputies would like to sign up for the factions. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, Rosenko, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u18	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We are stressing once again our faction's proposal on the impossibility of adopting any changes to the budget until the government implements the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 and, in conclusion, the first quarter does not fully amend and supplement Ukraine's 2013 State Budget. First of all, these changes should relate to increasing social standards: increasing pension insurance, carrying out pension indexes, modernising these pensions, increasing social assistance, incentivising the wages that are currently not paid, and providing all of them with funding for all budgetary institutions: hospitals, higher education institutions, secondary schools, because, according to the heads of these funding institutions, they have only until October of this month. And they are forced to send all the staff today on vacation on their own account, so that they can at least fit into the budget that was voted upon by the Supreme Council of the previous call. In addition, Volodymyr Vasilovich, the UDA faction strongly denies voting on this bill as a whole, because you yourself have heard that there are observations by both the Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Committee itself. Also before this bill are specific remarks by the factions of the impact. Therefore, according to the rules, once again, this document cannot be voted on as a whole today. Therefore, only voting should take place in the first reading. This is the position of the impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u19	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u20	Please pass the word to Mikhail Vasilevich Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u21	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u22	Specially for "Freedom", which does not understand, except in Ukrainian, no language, by demonstrating its damage, culture, spiritual impairment. [[B in m in s a l in]] In English, so the buttons are pressed correctly. This law proposes to increase the income and expenditure of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine and to channel additional revenue. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see you don't even know Ukrainian! Chewchenka read it! However, to direct the Ministry of Justice to finance budgetary programmes in the areas of civil registration of civil civil registration of immovable property rights, state registration of legal persons and natural persons of business, since, in accordance with paragraph 2 of the first paragraph of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013, such funding should only be effected by 1 July 2013. I propose to uphold this law as a whole. I repeat, as a whole. Well, I see you have to call the doctors, because you already have ears, with hearing bad in Freedom. I feel like soon the Freedom faction, we'll lose the Freedom faction in Parliament. And Vladimir Vasilievich, I will ask for a vote on the question of disenfranchisement of voting rights, turning off microphones for those who interfere with the work of the Supreme Council. It's in the Rules. It's hard to put them up and shut their mouths for five days. Let them listen. Because they don't understand or hear anything anymore. They're all deaf out there. The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u23	Dear MPs, I translate. Mikhailo Chechetov proposed the adoption of the law as a whole. Because you didn't hear. I translate what Chechetov said. And no or no, you'll vote and that's it. Yes, the Unity of Freedom, Sabius. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u24	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u25	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u26	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill that was just presented to us by our colleague Pressman is actually a copy of the 2055a bill (17 May 2013), which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and has already been considered in the session room and has been rejected. And then I draw your attention, my dear Vladimir Vasilovich, to the fact that, according to article 107 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, this session is no longer open to consideration. It's in shape. It's for the purpose. The essence of the bill is that compared to the previous one, the sources of funding have simply been changed. Earlier it was said that funding sources included the National Bank of Ukraine’s recalculation of funds to the state budget. Apparently, the members of the Party of Regions understood that the 16 billion that the National Bank was obliged to recalculate to the budget were not enough, and then they offered new revenue, namely, from payments for services provided to budgetary institutions according to legislation. It should be noted that this amount of money that is offered, namely, 365 million dollars, is absolutely unrealistic. And then there's a completely artificial and virtual source of revenue. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom urges you to withdraw this bill from consideration, and if you put it to a vote, it will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u27	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tears. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what I have said this morning, the "Fatherland" faction has deliberately voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and has called for a well-established party to this bill until the time of the vote in the first reading to submit an objective financial and economic justification. There is no financial and economic justification for this hour. Instead, we heard from the report that the cost of a single register of 26 million dollars totalling 360 million dollars is spent. I'm not going to repeat what I said in the morning, I'm going to name specific numbers. First. The revenue source, which is projected to be increased by 21 percent in the first quarter of the treasury report for this budget programme. This is likely to result from the fact that the annual amount of income received from the services provided to the public authorities is not likely to be realized. There is no point in supplementing this article with an income of 364 million. One second. According to the Budget Code, changes to the state budget are only considered in the three-quarters section. Obviously, this is a violation of the current budget code. On the basis of the above, if this bill had been voted on in the first reading, we would have supported it, taking into account the amendments I made. Given the overall vote, the "Fatherland" faction will not support the bill. Another important point I want to raise. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, an unlawful decision was taken regarding the letters of understanding of members of the Committee on Budgets. What does that mean? That the members of the Budget Committee may now not be present at the Budget Committee meetings merely by letters of acceptance. And according to the reconciliation letters, they're going to be reviewed by redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u30	That's why I'm addressing the head of the budget committee first. Evgeny Borisovich, to you as Head of the Supreme Council, Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich, please cancel this draft decision, which is contrary to complete sanity. Then let's get all the Ukrainian employees to sit at home and, for example, the doctors will give us medical care for the letters of agreement. Let's get the women, let's let them sit at home and not work so they can raise their kids and work on the letters of agreement. I would like to say that the honourable colleagues, according to the Constitution of 19 articles, should all act on the basis of, within the limits of, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. Consider my statement as a parliamentary request and I ask you to respond: to revoke this decision of the Committee on Budgets, which was adopted in contravention of the Constitution and other budgetary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u31	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, National Deputy, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The economic policy of today’s authorities and government is catastrophic for our country, and this testifies to the failure to implement the budget in both the first quarter and the second half. I want to go to the government. You are ignoring the requirements of the State Budget Act 2013, which stipulates that the government is obliged to make changes to the higher social standards as a result of the implementation of the budget for the first quarter. The government of Azar does not do this. So I think there's good reason in the Supreme Council to consider resigning the government of Azarov as one who does not comply with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, ignores the rights of citizens and robs these citizens. I'm going to the Supreme Council, and I'm going to look directly at the resignation of the Government of Azarov tomorrow. This government has to be swept away, the government has to change, the budget has to work for the people, not the oligarchs, as is happening today. Get off the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u33	Zybenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u34	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine The faction of the Company of Ukraine is ready, at least in the first reading, to support this bill. But, on the other hand, I want to pay attention to two things. First of all, we support the financing of continuous state registers. On the other hand, I'm asking a question: When is the bill for changes to the state budget proposed to increase the social costs of veterans. For war veterans, the youngest of them today 87, for children of war, for the Chernobylites. Secondly, what I want to pay attention to. This document, registered on June 20, is today included in the agenda, it is being considered today. My bill registered in December, along with my colleague Babic, on the removal of 4 points of the State Budget Act, on the suspension of Ukraine's direct action laws, has not yet been considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u35	And one minute, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u36	On the basis of the fact that the faction of the Party of Regions was mentioned in the previous speech, I would like to remind the speaker that the issue of the resignation of the government has already been discussed in the next session. Both the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine can be considered once. And if you do, the honourable speaker, the desire to stand up and submit, it is your own business. And as for the government issue, you've already identified yourself once. Therefore, I ask you to calm down and work under the current regulations and the Constitution of Ukraine. The autumn will come, remember this question, and now do not torment yourself or the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u37	I would like to vote on the draft Act (Registration No. 2341a) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to ensure the continuous functioning of the relevant state registers for adoption). Please vote. [[16:33:34]] For 244 Against 61, held – 29, not a vote – 63. Decision taken. Let the committee work and bring it all together. There's a note by the deputies. There is a proposal to assign a committee to work, to offer a hearing to all the deputies, and to bring July 2nd for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[16:34:41]] For 234 Against 57, held – 22, not a vote – 82. Decision taken. A draft Act (No. 2850) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in an international peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is under consideration. Reported Deputy Defence Minister Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolayovich. Please report. Wait a minute. May I put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you see? Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u38	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! As you know, the national contingent has been involved in a peacekeeping operation in Kosovo since 2000. To date, there are 163 military personnel. The task of multinational forces is carried out. It's all in the power. Funding for this contingent is made at the expense of the state budget. In line with the findings of the Court of Auditors, the current drafting of the Peacebuilding Contingency Act for participation in an international peacekeeping operation does not determine the sources of financial security for a peacekeeping contingent. And this is contrary to the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations. Today, in the legal field involved in directing and ensuring the viability of the unit, there is a Presidential decree of 1999 and a decree of the 1999 Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, taking into account what has been said, the Ministry of Defence is proposing to amend the existing law on the basis of results, the approval of which at the legislative level will also be determined in the subsequent source of funding for our contingent's participation in the international operation in Kosovo, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. People's deputies please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u39	There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:37:41]] For 196 Against 82, held – 6, not voted – 115. Decision taken. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, sit down. Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u40	Highly Deserving Fellows! The committee considered this issue, unanimously supported it. There is no legal authority. The question is in response to the law we passed in 2010. There's no financial expense either. I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u41	May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2850) amending the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the Presidential Decree on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as a whole. Please vote. [[16:39:14]] For 333 That's all there is to it. The "yes" – 333, versus – 0, held – 0, did not vote – 67. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Transfer Prices (2515) is under consideration. Report to Minister Klimenko Alexander Viktorovich. Please consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:40:19]] For 203 Against - 96, held - 3, did not vote - 98. Please, Alexander Viktorovich, report you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u42	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you a bill, a bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on transfer pricing. Before the bill was passed in the session room, we held extensive consultations with representatives of the Ukrainian and foreign business, which lasted almost half a year. We agreed on all the principles and technical aspects. I came to you today with the support of those business representatives who want transparency and social responsibility. The main purpose of the bill is to build an active system of government regulation of transfer pricing in Ukraine. What does that mean in practice? That the state will have effective mechanisms that will prevent uncontrolled withdrawal of capital from our country to offshore and low-tax jurisdiction. From the point of view of national patriotism, it is essential that the point of profit be in the country where it is objectively earned. The business will benefit from the use of Ukrainian resources and infrastructure, and it will have to make appropriate deductions to the country's budget. Regrettably, today is a practice where business, primarily large, minimizes its tax liabilities and we know that. The moment has come when we must put an end to this, when we must make a willful decision in the interests of our state and its citizens. We don't have time for thought and delay. The bill had to be adopted at least ten years ago. The whole world has been actively fighting tax evasion through the use of linked persons and a series of tax jurisdictions for more than one year. Transfer pricing and the fight against tax base erosion is a question number one for both the European Union and the countries of the 'great eight'. Almost all nations have an appropriate legislative basis to protect their national interests. The fight against capital output is ongoing and at a global level, interstate databases are being created, and there is a constant exchange of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u43	Finish! Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u44	Ukraine is still the world’s outsider on this issue. I'm asking you to back me up. We have business support today, we've come a very big way today. And what's important is that we have to engage more than 20 billion dollars over three years without creating too much tax burden on conscientious taxpayers. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to support the initiative of the Ministry of Income and Assembly and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The bill is intended to introduce an effective mechanism of government regulation, price formation in external economic operations for the supply of goods or services. The project proposes setting up controls to make it impossible to export financial resources outside the country by introducing a transfer pricing tool. The minister briefly reported on the main directions of the bill. What would you like to add? For the purpose of establishing transfer pricing, it is proposed in the bill to introduce such tax controls for transactions that exceed 50 million dollars. That's the first one. It's different. The value added tax suggests applying the transfer pricing order of January 1, 2018. But for individual groups of goods, this means, first of all, raw materials that are exported from Ukraine. The implementation of this mechanism is proposed as of January 1, of July 1, I'm sorry, this year. It is also suggested that a range of market prices or market profitability ranges be defined in order to balance the price control price of these transactions, depending on the chosen method of determining price in controlled transactions. To that end, there are five methods by which a comparative price will be chosen. The first method is the price of reselling. The second is the cost plus. Next. The price, the net profit of the company and the comparable uncontrolled price of the likeness of sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u47	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u48	In considering the committees, the National Deputies made a number of comments to the bill. Literally, squeezed. First. This is an opportunity to specify the criteria for the recognition of the relationship of persons, the criteria for the accounting of transactions for such control. It's different. Consider the relevance of a centralized approach to the tests by providing for the organization of checks to the central authorities rather than to the regional offices. Third. It is possible to introduce transfer pricing rules for income tax and value added taxes simultaneously from the time the law takes effect. Next. This includes the requirement to report the original documents on controlled transactions to all taxpayers. There is also a question that will need further counsel on second reading. Thoughts were also divided about controlled operations. This should be just export transactions or internal transactions as proposed in the editor. All these and other suggestions made by committee members are presented in the committee's draft decision. They're all previously spoken to the Ministry. And in our view, the bill is ready to be considered and accepted as a basis, and to work on these and other issues in furthering the second reading. It would be preferable, if we vote, to accept a reduced procedure because we have another plenary week left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u49	Please sign up from factions for discussion. You don't have to pull your hand, you have to write it down. The Fatherland faction, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u50	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Teryohin Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u51	Sergey Teryohin. Where do we have Sergey Teryohin? Come on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u52	Vladimir Vasilovich, it's hard not to see me. Dear colleagues, Teryohin, Fatherland, Glossiovo, Kiev. Look, please, we have a bill that seems to be based on the standards of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Nothing like that. This is where the minister spoke and said that it was necessary to put an end to it. I, you know, felt like I had to steal the land for one reason. So someone there was talking about all kinds of export products, like, seven years old, who gets benefits from this law? Well, you see, chemistry, metallurgy, coal and so on. So this law is applied to all of these -- no, there are benefits for seven years. The second question. Well, please tell me, why does this law say that transfer pricing is spreading to Ukraine's internal problems? According to the OECD, these are only international contracts. There's nothing more. Where national legislation faces offshore companies, welcome to Cyprus, by the way. We'll get there, I think, before it's re-ratified. It is written that this law extends to non - business individuals. So you have, if someone sells an apartment there your brother's cousin's cousin's cousin's first marriage, it's going to be de facto related to you and has to file all kinds of tax returns there to determine whether it's a transfer price or whether it's a normal price. And finally, fellow Christians, we have absolutely no problem in the Tax Code, but there are special articles that apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u53	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u54	Thus, the Tax Code contains articles that refer to the prices of connected persons. This covers everything that is being done in Ukraine. This is when a manufacturer takes a house of commerce or, as someone said, how they bought food for their children by tender, and he does the lining by manipulating prices. That's all there is. The only problem with the minister, as it is called, is the income and the congregations, why these rules are not applied. Therefore, the "Paternity" faction in the form that today contradicts the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) will not vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u55	Freedom Union, National MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u56	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u57	We're handing Alexander over to the Peacekeeper. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u58	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, there's a good Russian song like, "Why are you looking so cute, so low on the head of the bow?" Thank you. So I thought for a long time about the meaning of those words and finally realized that it was a pose. It's a pose in which the government is now in, and it's forced to mow with a lily eye into the fabric of sacred active cows with a big clean exchange, i.e. oligarchs. This bill admits that we have billions of dollars walking past the budget. The government admits that we are developing and supporting schemes that are perfectly legal to avoid showing revenue to the budget. And this small, very careful, step by the government that in this bill, it's also surprising, little, we support it, we're only going to vote in favour of this bill for one reason that you are. [[Applause]] Thank you. You're finally admitting to what you've led the country to. And also, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to remind you that the vote for the military. Sorry, 33 people have been accepted for sending a contingent to Kosovo, not because there is no discussion, but because there is a breach of procedure. And this, as you say, is not the Ternopil City Council, but it's not the Donetsk City Council, it's the Supreme Council and the procedure has to be followed. There is a discussion, so it is. Like it or not, you have to follow the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u59	Like it or not, don't block the rostrum, and I won't break the Rules. You've been out for a month and a half! But let's just give you something for a vacation, or we can't make any money, and I can't pay you. Yes, National Deputy Momot, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The introduction in Ukraine of world-renowned price control mechanisms in related transactions, such as transactions with counterparties registered in offshore zones, will help to implement the basic principles of tax legislation and avoid the loss of income in the budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u61	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u63	Oksani Solda, we give you our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u64	Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, we are now considering a bill that will have a profound impact on economic development. And we all know that state statistics show that Ukraine's economy is barely alive. Will this project help? He will help stop those who thought of investing money in Ukraine yesterday. Why? Because, in addition, the State is allowing itself to influence the prices of absolutely all investors that will work with Ukraine. In addition, when the bill is adopted today, the state will force all the big business to submit further to the tax office, to the Ministry of Income and Assembly, huge stacks of documents that cost and enable control, and to pay fines. This bill offers additional preferences to specific sectors. This project allows the government and allows the Ministry of Income and Communities to influence domestic pricing, which is what no country has. Last week, I was in Europe (we were in Berlin with a committee) where the representatives of the German Ministry of Finance said that transfer pricing could not apply to domestic prices. This project will give the Ministry of Income and Communities the right to influence all businesses in Ukraine. I call on all those who have anything to do with Ukraine's economy, all those who have worked in production, do not vote in favour of this project, don't take too long on Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u65	Communist Party faction, one minute, Peter Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u66	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. We vote, but we warn that this can be considered only the first step and very, so to speak, indecisive in terms of currency control and money coming out of Ukraine and practically not going back to Ukraine. It's just to control it. Above all, we need to introduce even more stringent policies as to how the money that we made in Ukraine, which we spent our internal resources on, should be turned back to make it work real for the real economy. This is what the task today is for both the government and the Supreme Council. There's nothing else. Because we're going to walk around with our hands stretched out all the time, and we're going to ask the International Monetary Fund for that. Which will change for the economy of Ukraine, based on what we control, we will really know. We have to force and force this money to work in the economy of Ukraine. Then this will be a real second step that will give us real change for the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u67	I'll bet you a vote. Deputies, please prepare. Draft Act (No. 2515) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Transport Prices to be accepted as a basis and shortening the preparation deadline for the second reading. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[16:58:36]] For 279 In general, put to the vote? Will you vote? A draft law is under consideration. Let's see the factions. I'm betting on a draft Act (2015a) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children with Disabilities. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. What procedure? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:59:41]] For-195 84, held – 9, did not vote – 108. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Social Policy has drafted a draft Law for the implementation of the social initiatives of President Viktor Fedorović Januković of Ukraine for 2013. At present, the size of the care allowance and the corresponding state welfare allowance for a disabled child does not depend on the extent to which it is lost. The bill provides for a differentiation in the extent of the care allowance depending on the degree of loss of the child’s health by increasing the amount of the child’s disability allowance, which is inefficient to self - care from 50 to 75 percent of the minimum child’s living for children of appropriate age. Thus, when this law is passed, the amount of the care allowance allocated to state social assistance for the disabled child of subgroup A to 6 years of age will increase from July 1st to 243 bracelets. Thus, the size of the allowance for care in July will amount to 1 thousand 354.8 bracelets and from December to 1 thousand 438.3 bracelets. For children between 6 and 18 years of age, the allowance will increase from July to 302.5 bracelets, and thus the amount of assistance with care allowance for children between 6 and 18 years of age from July will amount to 1 thousand 533.3 bracelets, from December to 1 thousand 628.8 bracelets. These changes will be made to more than 15,000 children with disabilities with a high degree of health loss. The bill also provides for the responsibility of recipients of state social assistance to submit unreliable documents for the assignment of such State social assistance. The need to inform the organs that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u69	Have you finished? Thank you. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. National MP Suškević, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, please listen to the bill concerning children with disabilities. Many years ago, I wrote the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children. And all my parliamentary years in the Council, I've been trying to make this law more serious and comprehensive. Regrettably, this law is still being financed very and very difficult. And today I just don't agree as head of the committee, as the author of this law with the deputy minister, who said that this law provides for a differentiation in the provision of assistance and, in fact, the allowance for the care of a disabled child in accordance with this bill. It's only about one thing: that today it's proposed to increase the allowance for care of only children with disabilities in subgroup "A". It's just with the heavy, I'd say, terrible impressions of the disability of these children, and only for them will there be a rise, I'd say so, not very important. But anyway, I want to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons supported this legislative initiative and is proposing to adopt this law in the first reading. I want to pay attention to what was said on the committee. Dear colleagues, today children taken care of and cared for by healthy children, will be in line with the bills that are now registered in the Supreme Council, which are supported by the government, and will receive 2,000,838 dollars or up to 3,000,650. That's very good. It's important when kids, which ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u72	..supported by the state. But this is about children with disabilities today. I want to say that after this adoption of the bill, this state aid plus the care allowance is going to be 1 thousand 355 to 3 thousand 533. Well, it's a little bit of a sum, and it definitely needs more support. But on top of that, I'm calling on the national MPs to support this legislative initiative that applies to children with disabilities, with the most severe injuries. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u73	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Factions, please. Think, perhaps on a basis, and in general vote for the children? While you're thinking, I said, while you're thinking. Freedom Union, Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u74	Please pass the word to Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u75	People's deputy Leonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u76	Leonov, I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u77	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor! We are now discussing the 2015 Bill, which raises a very important topic, the topic of material assistance to families who care for children with severe injuries. We need to understand, the respectable community that today is in those boarding schools where children are being treated with severe injuries that parents have refused, the parents who are unable to support these children at home. For every child like that, we spend about 20,000 dollars per month from the government budget to keep such a child in the home. And now we're looking at a bill that tells those parents who are going to win, parents who leave a miserable child with severe injuries in their family, we're not talking about 20,000 dollars, we're talking about 300 dollars. So this bill is clearly insufficient, the government is obviously not enough in this bill to define state aid, and it needs to be increased. We will uphold this law in the first. In no way do I ask you not to put this bill in general today because it needs substantial work. Because, apart from the fact that there are positive rules that apply to, at least a little bit, raising the social security of families who care for sick children, but at the same time this bill tries to enable an official, an inspector without a court decision to take back the part of that pitiful pension that was paid if the official acknowledges it. will decide that the pension was unwarrantedly granted. In no case can these disadvantaged people be deprived of something without a court decision. So we will support this bill as a small step towards improving the situation of these families, but we demand an increase in the social welfare of these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u78	Party of regions. National Deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u79	I ask you to give the floor to Alexander Nikolaevich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u80	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u81	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. It is good that the head of the Committee on Disability, the pensioners, said that the bill should be supported because he himself admitted that he had made such a proposal many years ago. Even then, in the time of the government of Timoshenko, our colleague introduced the bill, and then the government failed to help the disabled. And only President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine, with social initiatives, suggested that we return to this really difficult category of our children. And the increase is significant. Look, 240 bucks, 350 bucks. And today, a disabled child will receive more than a worker’s minimum wage. That's very good. And when they say "it's a copy of the glasses," I say no, it's a major step in supporting children with disabilities. Of course, you have to go to step two, you have to raise all payments at the minimum of living. But I'm asking everyone, let's now vote, let's not speculate on this issue, because the previous governments have failed to do anything, and we step by step, by following the President's initiatives, are raising social standards. I now propose to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. The party of regions will fully support it because it is an important social bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u82	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u83	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, it's a traditional question for the Ministry of Social Policy and for you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Look, we have a beautiful example today, the Minister of Income and Congregations. He found an opportunity for us to come and present his bill today. The Minister of Social Policy and Works of the Kingdom for the third time has already ignored his duty to present here the laws of the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u84	We're on our way! She's on her way!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u85	So it's shipping, and it's like she's always in the shipping business, and then there's tenders in the ministry, and there's the looting of government funds. Now we're talking about directly the bill that we're talking about. Well, you know, colleagues, you don't have to brag about the big achievements that this bill is going to raise something significantly. In fact, if you look at his point of view, the rise is completely negligible. And by the way, we have a constitutional standard that clearly states that the size of social assistance cannot be less viable in Ukraine. This bill and this law state that the allowance for care is only 50 percent of the subsistence minimum, and the government proposes to increase it to 75 percent of the subsistence minimum. So let's give it a little bit, at least for children with disabilities, the care allowance should be at least a living minimum. And, Volodymyr Vasilovich, why can't this bill be voted on as a whole? Because in addition to increasing social assistance, there is a second frightening norm that predicts that every recipient of aid should run to the Social Protection Authority and prove that, God forbid, they don't pay him anything. However, if he is overpaid for 10 dollars, the social policy body is entitled without a court decision. Attention! Without the court’s decision to deprive her of this social assistance. So these innovations are never missed by the government in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u86	National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will support this bill. But I want to draw attention to a number of warnings of this general nature and practical nature. Once again, we urge and demand the government to comply with the 2012 Budget Act, where it is clear from the results of the first quarter to review all social expenditures in the direction of their increase and introduce to the Supreme Council a new edition of the Budget Act, whereby not only one category, children with disabilities, but all citizens of Ukraine will increase social payments at least for inflation and at least for the deterioration of, of course, the index of the deterioration of the country's life. If the government has managed only for a few social categories in six months to propose an increase in social expenditure, it is clear that it does not simply implement the Budget Act; it does not have the real ability to fulfil the commitments it has made to the community. Second position. I've visited a lot of institutions where children with disabilities are raised and living. And I want to tell you that no less pressing problem is the problem of adequate funding for these institutions, especially in another system of tariffs and recruitment. So today, imagine, children with disabilities who have serious problems are being raised by the same number of teachers as in normal schools. So for example, one psychologist by number, for example, in a general school. One person who deals with their health. How can such complex children be supported by such a small number of teachers? So my proposal is to support it in the first reading and to think about it by adopting it as a whole and expanding the category of social assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u88	National Deputy Cibenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u89	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, surely the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill. You can argue whether it's a sufficient step in the right direction or not, but most importantly, it's a step in the right direction. Secondly, what is missing from this document? He lacks complexity. Because, look, we're increasing aid for the care of a child with disabilities, but not even all children with disabilities, but just for the children with disabilities of group A, which is the most severe injuries. This is certainly not appropriate. And when you say "A," you have to say "B," I mean, going back to the problem of complexity, we're waiting for the government to make changes to Ukraine's State Budget to increase social pay and war veterans, and to children of war, and to veterans of Chernobyl to solve this problem in a comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u90	Did everyone say that? I'll bet you a vote. Please be prepared. Do not stand still, but vote with your shorts. I'm voting on the draft Act (2015a) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities (for Care Allowance) for adoption as a basis and entrusting the committee to shorten their preparation for the second reading by half. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:35]] For 377 Let us now consider one question and take a break. A draft Law (2834) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. So you're blocking for a month and a half, and now you want to take a break. One question we're going to consider and we're going to be. Yeah. Yes! Report to the committee head. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I'm going to call it a break! Report, report the law. Let's report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Bill 2834 is proposed for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u92	Now let's talk about one question and I'll get to the bottom of it. And yours and yours, you talk to them. Nobody wants to work. Well, what can I do?Oh, my God! Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u93	on changes in the Customs Code in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. This is about the bills that were passed, the three bills are similar. The first discussed changes to the Tax Code. The Customs Code is being amended. The bill had 63 proposals, of which 60 were taken into account in whole or in part, 4 were rejected. Given that the bill was sent to a committee that agreed with the Ministry, we can vote on it as a whole. The only trailer for the transcription, the technical refinement. Editable changes to revision 28. The words "in all the customs territory of Ukraine" after the words "predicted by this code" and the words "including" shall be deleted. Taking this technical clarification into account, there is a proposal to vote in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u94	Amendment 3, People's Deputy Blawajki. The national deputy is Blavajki? I beg of you, the 3 amendments that have been rejected, National Deputy Blawajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u95	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-20-m1.u96	1st count, it's counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, sit down and vote, and I'll make the 1st amendment. Come on, have a seat. Do you want a fight or what you want? Sit down, I'll give you a correction to Rosenka. Sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the deputies to prepare, I'm going to set up a session. And then you will walk through the courts! Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. The MPs prepared for the vote? Let's take a look at one question, and I'll close the session. Shall I put the vote to continue the session, the session? When are we going to work? They didn't work for a month and a half. In accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, we request a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. Are you going to make a statement now? Don't scream. Where are the faction leaders? Alexander Sergiyovich! Faction leaders. I declare the evening session closed. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
