ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 244 national deputies registered in the hall. I have to put to the vote right now, who's in charge of holding a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this building? And then I'm going to open a meeting, and I'm going to close the meeting first. I'm asking you to vote for the session in this building. Please vote. Count commission, please work. Who's "against"? There's none. Who "retained"? I won't. Next. Honourable National MPs voted in favour of the work of the 244 National Deputies in this building. Tuesday in connection with the blocking of the Supreme Council Presidency, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not closed. Therefore, he must announce that Tuesday’s plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. People's deputies, please vote. Who's in? Please. Who's "against"? Who "retained"? Count commission, how many votes? 244. We closed the plenary session Tuesday. Now it's me. The count committee told us that there were 244 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. [[Applause]] Now I'm going to put it to a vote, we don't have an electronic voting system here, we have to make a decision, we're going to vote with our hands. Any second suggestions? I won't. Who is in favour of taking the decision of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by raising the hand, please vote. Who's "against"? Who "retained"? 244 people's deputies voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u2	We've all settled organizational issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u3	Adam Ivanovich, have you decided? Are there other issues that need to be resolved? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u4	But I ask that in the motivational part of our opening decision, we refer to 51 articles of the Rules on order and discipline in the session hall. Since that is not possible, we are here. That is, to refer to article 51 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u5	Roger that. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to listen to the announcement. Four applications were made to the Supreme Council. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, it is reported that the National Deputies of Ukraine, Oleg Leonidovich, Vitalija Alexandrovich, Stadniczuk Roman Vasilovich and Skosar Igor Evgeniyovich, made up of the Deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers in the Supreme Council of the Seventh Invocation. [[Applause]] Now let's get to the point. You have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. Let us go to their consideration. It's being considered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I think the first question now is that it is entirely appropriate to vote on the amendments to the committees. We cannot allow the opposition to break up the committee work. And if the hall agrees, I think it's acceptable to vote change before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u7	I'd like to ask the faction manager for his word and the head of the McKeenka Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u8	I'm asking Inna Hermanovna to withdraw her offer. And the colleague who picked up the same wound, too. I explain why. We are here not to share our portfolios in committees, but we are here to adopt the necessary laws for our State. Second. We have dealt honestly and in good faith with the opposition, and we have an agreed document on this issue. I do not wish to see our parliamentary colleagues being misled and voted without their participation on this matter. We have no problems there, we have an agreed document, and I think we will go to work together and vote together. I would like the distinguished colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Let's support, they'll be deputizing all the factions -- I'll put it to the vote right now, and we'll solve all the questions. Okay? Dear colleagues, as Head of the Supreme Council, I need to hold a session in the state language, and I teach it. The draft Act (registration 1103) amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve the procedure for confiscation is being introduced. How will we consider this question? Please, Tihypka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u10	Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, it has happened that the faction’s chairman has instructed me to consider and try to discuss with the Ministry of Justice, with the experts three bills 1103, 2032 and 2033. The laws are extremely important because they are exactly the laws that we must adopt in order to simplify the visa regime for Ukrainian citizens. I can say that there have been many questions about these three laws, including our deputies. We've met with a working group of experts and, frankly, we need literally a few more days to work them out properly so that they don't cause negative resonance in society. So I have an offer, 1103, 2032 and 2033 to take off now so we can work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made by Deputy Tihypak, let us support this proposal? So let me put to the vote on the transfer, a few more days to work, these three laws. I'm voting on the transfer for later consideration of the Supreme Council of Laws 1103, 2032 and 2033. Please vote. Move. Please put it down. Who's against it? There's no such thing. Who held up? One's holding up. For – 243 A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the institutional system of personal data protection is being introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. Laws: 2282 (government), 2282-1 (deputy) and 2282-2 are also MPs. I'm asking you to report. First Deputy Minister of Justice, Jemelyanov Anna Ivanovna Another Ivanovna. Please. How will we view it? An offer is made to consider the discussion by means of a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? None. Procedural decision, it's made. Please, Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law submitted for your consideration proposes to amend a number of legislative acts in order to improve the institutional mechanism for the protection of personal data. This is one of the important bills that we have in the two documents -- the EU visa liberalisation action plan and the Action Plan for the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union -- what we plan to do. This year's summit. What were the main claims since the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act by the EU? The main claim was that the monitoring functions in this direction remained in the executive branch. Because questions and registrations of personal data bases and control functions to verify compliance with personal data protection legislation were in the hands of the executive authority. In this regard, it is suggested that the registration of personal databases should be divorced and left to the central executive authority and that all the control functions should be transferred to the Ombudsman. Such systems work in many countries that it is the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights that deals with the issue of personal data protection. In this regard, it is proposed to amend both the Personal Data Protection Act and the Authorized Supreme Council Act and the Code on Administrative Offences, which establishes responsibility for a part of a violation of personal data protection legislation. And already the officials of the Ombudsman's Institute will be authorized to draw up protocols on these administrative violations, and we leave the results, as before, that the courts will deal with these categories of cases. The requests, the honourable national MPs, to support this bill, it is as important as those that have now been removed from the Supreme Council's consideration in order to bring us closer to the issue of visa liberalisation and the signing of an association agreement. Thank you. But, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to take this opportunity, taking into account what all the corruption bills have passed, I have a great request that we have an understanding of what all the claims are before those bills to make them. [[B in m in s a l in]] In order to form them, note these bills to form them in some written form, so that we can not only rework them, but it would be useful to negotiate with the European side at this time, because if we adopt these laws and they are not accepted by the EU, we will again remain unfulfilled by three points and by liberalisation of the visa regime, and by association agreements. Taking into account that we have already gone along with the European side and this is in line with their demands that have been made to Ukraine. And recently, there's been a monitoring, another monitoring in Greece, and they've repeated questions and specific confiscations, and the question of the responsibility of legal persons, and the question of mandatory criminalization, so that the Code of Administration doesn't have any responsibility for the corruption of crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u13	Any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u14	I'm the secretary of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u15	We don't have a two-law report yet, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u16	Istvan Haydos, secretary of the profile committee. Despite the fact that the profile committee voted in favour of re-reading Bills 2282 and 2282-1, but because of the lack of time, it was necessary to adopt the Cabinet bill on the first reading and to re-read it. Thank you. And work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u17	Who else wants to speak? We have two pros, two opposites. Come to the microphone. Offers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u18	Deputy Yacenko, 200. Dear colleagues, I have a proposition like this. This law, namely, Inna John the Three, touched upon the laws that we passed on to the first reading again. For the next week, it means, first reading, so I want to remind the MPs who were before that, that eight times these laws. One law - 1103 - was filed for consideration by the last Council, and was rejected eight times. There are certain conclusions of the Korean Institute and even a letter from the Attorney General's Office was in the Council of the past that this law should be thoroughly worked out. And I have this proposal that the Minist, together with the committee, will lead, create a working group, as is done correctly, to involve European experts and deputies who have proposals, not to do so as they say, "on the knee," referring to GRECO, the European Union and so on. So this law is very far from the European Union's legislation. I don't know who wrote it there, but let's civilizedly do it. I would ask you to put this proposal to the vote and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u20	Dear Head, my fellow Members, since we are already in the process of considering this bill, it is obvious that we should not go back to what we have already voted on for transposition. I would just like to say that the bill that we are currently considering, which was reported by the honourable Inna Ivanovna, is, in fact, very important. It refers to the constitutional right of a person to defend his private life. Do you understand what this is about? Because a number of bills, and they've already gained the validity of laws that we've adopted in our time, make private life a private life. And we are witnessing this, and this applies not only to the system of the imperfect collection of personal data but also to the use of this system. And so, indeed, there has to be an organ, an independent person, but it's connected to the Supreme Council to some extent, and that's an ambucman, as called the Authorized Supreme Council, who could control it, or else we'll get to a situation where there's no constitutional right to protect a person's private life. It is very convenient for someone, perhaps for someone who makes money on it. But we are the legislators, we have to support this bill. In fact, we can support it in the first reading, because, firstly, the committee has expressed some objections, and secondly, there are a few norms that need to be reconciled, Inna Ivanovna. So in the first reading, we can vote for him. The topic is very important, we're still here. We'll meet again as they use this personal data, we've already come across it. Thank you. There needs to be an organ that protects this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u21	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u22	(speaks without microphone) Dear colleagues, I'd like to. First Deputy Minister of Justice. We've moved on, not corruption laws, but anti-corruption laws. That's why. Use the right terminology. If you have it. It can. That's the first one. And the second. Vladimir Vasilovich, please. We still have three bills. We heard one of them. We need to give the word, or there may be the following speakers, and then we need to discuss it. And then we only heard one bill, two bills we don't even say, or maybe we do, and we started talking. So you give the word to the second and the third. No, we'll talk about it. Thank you. I'm here to support them in the first. support the bill number 2282 (government) in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u23	Thank you. We have two more bills. This is National Deputy Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich and National Deputy Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Under these two laws, are there any proposals for deputies? There are no authors in the room to be invited to the interview. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why. Then let's move on, the MPs have spoken before the decision is made. I am voting on a draft law (registration 2282) amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the institutional system of personal data protection for adoption. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? Not one. Four held on. 236. Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis. 237 national deputies voted. Deputies! A proposal may be agreed upon under Law 2033. We decided to move it. The proposal is now being made to return to Law 2033. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u24	Vladimir Vasiljevic, there are three European laws. Two laws that really need to be worked with. We thought that on the first reading, we could accept them and then finish them. But if it's up to you, we have to agree. But Law 2033 is ready for us to consider it. Therefore, on first reading, we can consider it today and accept it, there is no problem. This is the European Integration Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u25	Will there be no objection to anyone to go back to the matter? I am voting to return to the draft Law (2033) on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of prevention and anti-corruption. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Three, four against, right? Who was there tomorrow? It's a reckoning commission. 238. 2 held, 4 against. The question then is: The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of prevention, anti-corruption. Act 2033. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Are we going to consider a reduced procedure? Please vote. Who is responsible for considering the reduced procedure? Please put it down. Against? You holding up? Decision adopted, 244.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This document is also in two important plans. This is an action plan for visa liberalisation, I said. And a plan of action for signing an association agreement. What it's aimed at, what requirements were made. Today, we have responsibility for certain corruption offences, both in the Code of Administrative Violations and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The main requirement was that only criminal responsibility should exist for corruption. In this regard, it is proposed to exclude from the Code of Administrative Violations such warehouses as Article 172, which sets the responsibility for violating restrictions on the use of official status. And article 172, marked 3, is like a proposal or an improper benefit. In this regard, amend the Criminal Code and establish criminal responsibility for the promise of wrong convenience, as well as for accepting the offer or promise of such benefits. Well, including referring to the number of criminally punished acts that would give undue benefit to a third party with a known official who would act for the benefit of a person who would provide such benefits. In addition, it is proposed to establish criminal responsibility for active and passive bribery not only in public-law relations but also in the private sphere. That is, by the actions of business managers, institutions, organizations independent of the forms of ownership of a legal person. I'm asking you to support this bill. I also want to conclude that we have the conclusions of the Council of Europe. They supported these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u27	Have a seat. The report is the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u28	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of prevention and anti-corruption. The bill aims to improve domestic legislation in the field of prevention and anti-corruption and to bring it into line with international standards. To this end, the bill proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as Ukraine's laws on economic societies, on the basis of Ukraine's national security, on the principles of preventing and combating corruption and on the application of amnesty in Ukraine. In particular, it is proposed to remove from the Ukrainian Code the administrative violations of articles related to the gaining of wrong benefits (this is 172 with the 2nd article badge). In the Criminal Code, it's a criminal concept, like bribes, to replace the notion of "unfair convenience." In doing so, criminal responsibility is established not only for giving or receiving but also for offering or promising such an improper benefit. Establish criminal responsibility for offering or promising undue benefits not only to the official but also to any employee of enterprises, institutions or organizations, regardless of the form of ownership. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. At the same time, the committee examined the bill, suggested that it be accepted as a basis and that the second reading should be seriously revised. There's something else to work on, dear colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u29	Please, we have the opportunity to speak. Two for, two against, please to the microphone. National MP Smithukh. You can perform there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! In my opinion, Sergey Tihypco rightly said that when we postponed this proposal for consideration of this bill. I don't know why this bill is relevant to our state today, but I do know that one term is "unreasonable convenience," if any of you go up in this room and say how to qualify it from the point of view and treat it, then it'll be clear. But I know one thing, if we're talking today about reducing the pressure on businesses, if we're talking today to give peace to our entrepreneur who works, we don't have the right to adopt this law. I don't know about the requirements of the European Union, I don't know the requirements. But you have to look very closely at this question so that we don't create for ourselves and for our people working for us and raising businesses, even though someone works to avoid creating conditions that any law enforcement officer in our legal system who doesn't always act justly in the interests of the state or the interests of society has not taken advantage of this norm, which will in general destroy any will in our entrepreneurial environment. And one more question. You realize that the project proposes that all corruption related to obtaining an improper benefit be taken into consideration in these words. Who will interpret this question, the Constitutional Court? The whole trial? I think that these three laws were the right thing to do -- unite them into one, because you can't make any changes in a little bit. If we have a question today, and I really do, I would expect from the Ministry of Justice, what they are, the requirements of the European Union, how they are treated in one state or another, what standards are applied and why they contradict our current national idea of democratization, relative to integration and so on. I would ask the national MPs not to vote in favour, but to send him back for a second first reading and to consider them comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the two anti-corruption laws we sent for work and removed from the agenda. One of them left. I'm now acting as secretary to the Committee on Law Enforcement. We have this law, which we are now looking at, is being considered on the committee. I want to tell you, here's Mr. Vladimir Oliynik who won't lie, voted everyone. So we have both communists and hitters and Fatherland and the Party of Regions are representatives of this committee. That is what was unanimously voted for. What is the point? The adoption of this bill will allow Ukraine to fulfil its international obligations to criminalize corruption. So we're removing this from the Code on Administrative Violations of an Unfavourable Benefit Article and we're essentially criminalizing it. It's all over the world. And there's nothing special about it. It's this bill that's ready. And you have to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished members of the people! I'll make it clear a little bit. The European Union today demands that there be as little pressure on entrepreneurs as possible. Yesterday, Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic also sounded that as little as possible to have checks and pressure to enable entrepreneurs to work. There aren't as many checks abroad as we have today. I mean, they have to be reduced. And I suggest we unite these three laws. Taking the best and most beneficial thing for our country to develop and adopt our entrepreneurs. That is to say, we need to finalize and put in place a bill that is ready for adoption by the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u35	Last speaker, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Look what's happening right now. We have a list of laws that we need to adopt on the path to European integration. We all declare our political will before the decision to be taken in Vilnius, and the checkpoint is May. We have these bills in the Council. Three of them we're looking at right now. As we walk out of our Rules, we ask: Can we change them before we adopt them in the first reading? No, we can't. In theory, there could be a situation if the government were to call them off and bring them in a new way. Just now. That's right. But as soon as I held a consultation, the government has no intention of calling them off. But the government is absolutely ready for a constructive dialogue, just like all of us, on second reading, to prepare our amendments, all the standards that MPs are critical of today, we can fix for second reading. We are delaying the consideration of these bills, actually slowing down or halting the process of European integration. Still, we will have to approve of them in the first reading and only then make changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u37	You've heard different thoughts. The committee's decision I have to put to the vote, and the deputies will be determined. The committee proposes to consider it in the first reading, but it is very serious to work for the second reading. And there were other thoughts. That's why I'm putting the committee's proposal to a vote. Who's in favour of supporting the committee's decision, please vote. Let's re-vote. The project will be considered in the first reading today and entrusted to the committee, along with the government, to complete the second reading. It is up to the committee to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! That's the next question. I have to ask the first question right now. Or there'll be no decision, we'll figure it out. So I'm voting on draft Law 2033 amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of prevention and anti-corruption. In the first reading and commission of the committee to work with the government and make proposals in the second reading. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? I'm asking you, Count Commission. Come on, Count Commission. Against 25, held up? Please, let me tell you how long you've held up. So, 32. How much do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u38	25 opposed and held 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u39	25 versus 30. The decision is not taken. An offer is made to consider and refer to the Committee for Review on a rereading of the first reading. By procedure, please. By procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, you and I must understand what we declare and what we then accept. If we declare one thing and say that we want to implement legislation that is close to European countries, we must do so. And if we want every single one of our businesses, somewhere like this, we don't want to be touched, but we want to live in Europe. That's not gonna work. Take it easy, don't insult me. We are. Then the opposition, I will vote with her, she will take those decisions, she will take them, these decisions. We agreed to two bills, yes, they need to be finalized. This bill, it may be further elaborated on second reading. Why are we emotionally sensitive to this issue? This is our movement, carried out by the European institutions, specialists, our ministries, the Cabinet of Ministers, all committees have gone through, the relevant committee has taken a decision, and we do not vote. Then we have to say that we declare one thing and actually do another. Thank you. I ask you to go back to voting on this issue, because I honestly don't understand what's going on in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u41	Please, on the grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Kisse Anton Ivanovich, MP from Odessa. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on European Integration, we sat for hours, and this was the same question asked by a colleague here, especially the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Why were the proposals that had been made not proposed for the Committee to consider, and the amendments thereto, additions to the bill? They said he'd be on second reading. Why don't you do it before? How can we be aware of the problems we face? I think that, of course, the question is not simple, but we see that it does not find support in the session room today. The proposal adopted today by vote should be supported. And I don't see the point of going back to re-voting because the bill won't pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I see there is no support for this law. That's why I'm putting the vote back on the committee for the first time again. For the rereading of the first reading to be made. Go, come. What's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u44	Respectable colleagues! There is a suggestion that the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council should establish a working group on the committee, and then that the members of the committee should introduce three bills, either one or three, and that it should normally be finalized with the participation of the Miniust, European experts, the Committee on European Integration and so on. It would probably be the best option, otherwise these laws just don't go through the hall normally. That'd be right, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u46	Dear friends! I'd like to go back to the Rules - it's the law, it's the law! In Rule 107 of the article: If this decision is not voted on, we will not be able to consider it in the regimes of this session, except in the regimes of the following, since September. Think about it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u47	Deputies! Let's get him back to the committee, let them work with the government and then bring him in. So I'm proposing to take the decision to go back to re-reading. Members, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? There's no such thing. Who held up? Please, Count Commission. For -230, 11 - hold on. There's no other way. The law was returned to the committee for work with the government. Let's move on. And by procedure, you've already done it. Let's move on. By procedure, yes. Will you support such an offer so as not to take a break? Let's look at the laws, and we'll go to the Supreme Council, to the committees. Yes. On the grounds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u48	[[do not hear]] That's a warning. Whether to propose to consider only the drafts of which the author. The legislative initiative is here today. Because we went and didn't know if we were going to have a session, and maybe we didn't know who didn't come and report their alternative bills. To clean up our work, I'd like to take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u49	Roger that. A draft Act on the amendment of section VI, paragraph 12, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for financing the health experiment) is under consideration. Act 2137. He reports – Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, First Deputy Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! You will have before you a draft Law amending section 12, paragraph 12, of the Budget Code (Registration No. 2137), designed by the Cabinet of Ministers, on changes in proportions, on the allocation of an additional grant to offset the financial security of local budgets between the local budgets of the pilot regions that are taking part in the health reform experiment. The bill proposes to change the ratio of the allocation of an additional grant, without altering its overall grant to align the local budgets between the local budgets of the pilot regions, namely: to establish that the budgets of the cities of regional importance include not more than 25 per cent of the existing 75 per cent, and not less than 75 per cent of the budget of these pilot regions, the current standard 25, i.e. to change the proportion. In pilot regions: Vinnitsky, Dnipropetrovska, Donetské District, a health care facility that provides secondary specialized medical care that was previously funded from district and city budgets, has been transferred to district budget funding, resulting in a significant increase in the volume of district budget expenditure. And the implementation of these changes will be able to address issues related to the financing of district budget expenditure that are involved in the health reform experiment and additional financial burdens, which in turn will increase the efficiency of budget use. The distribution of these funds is carried out by district councils. So the process is democratic, transparent. Asking for support on the basis of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u51	Thank you. How will we discuss the matter? Please vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? Decision taken. I ask for a report from the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugenia Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies! Anatoly Ivanovich related the substance of the bill. The Budget Committee at its meeting on March 6th considered draft bill number 2137. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council draft Law 2137 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the committee’s proposals made in the letter of conclusion to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is required to make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications in connection with the approved committee's decision on the bill when it is adopted. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u53	Sit down, thank you. Would you like to make a statement, please? Step to the microphones, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u54	Dear friends, I ask as a medic to support this bill, it is indeed expected today not only in pilot projects but, in principle, in all parts of Ukraine. Because we know with you how difficult reform is going, how hard it is now to redistribute the money to these expenses that our doctors are waiting for today. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. The decision is absolutely balanced and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u55	People's deputy Polachenko, please report for the transcript. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u56	National MP Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, Party of Regions. Dear fellow national MPs! I propose to support this bill because, when we communicate with the health community, we have often heard suggestions that during medical reform, the medical burden is distributed unevenly. And that's why we really need to make this redistribution and support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u58	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Company's faction will vote against that decision, and I'll explain why. Because, as such a medical reform that would improve the ability of every citizen to receive medical care that is close to the person where he lives, to get it qualitatively, that we have new technical equipment completely in each of the medical facilities, such as such a medical reform does not provide. The first results are, so-called health reform, a sharp decline in health institutions and, of course, this so-called health reform has hit rural areas. The infirmary, the field office, the obstetrics, you all know very well, they're closing. District hospitals face enormous funding difficulties. Thus, the assistance that we must speak of from the point of view of constitutional law and human guarantees for medical care and the right to life is virtually not provided. Further, I would like to draw your attention to your colleagues that this medical reform has been initiated when the ideology has not been supported by real, concrete steps. You all know that the transfer to family medicine is not supported by the training of professionals. Only in the four areas where the experiment is conducted are 8.5,000 professionals, and so today people are providing medical care who do not really know the specialization of the problems facing the sick. This was a very serious blow to the health care of the children today. Because in a number of areas, we can't find a pediatrician anymore. And that's the problem. There are no more anesthesiologists in the district hospitals today, and that's the problem. I therefore reiterate your concern that the faction of the Company will not vote, and we have tabled an appropriate bill to end this medical reform and revise the concept that should be designed to make this assistance real. Dear colleagues, I hope that the presence here does not always feel that way and understand, but you can only think about the cost of any operation and whether this medicine is available to ordinary people. When surgery is related to cardiovascular diseases and others, it is simply priced for humans. So to say that this experiment needs to continue, at least it will be naive. Actually, speaking of which, it's a crime. Therefore, the Company's faction suggests that this process be halted and, of course, reviewed conceptually today, the State's approach to the development of the health sector, and we are prepared, the Company, to make our proposals available to our specialists: how we see what needs to be done by the State to make medicine accessible, and it has contributed to one of the problems faced by Ukrainian citizens. The Company's faction will not vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u59	Please, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! This is the case in the Winnitz region. Such a reform, such an experiment, and I, as a senior in five rural areas, want to say that there are a lot of problems in this that have probably not been thought out a little in advance when voted for it. I understand that redistribution is not an extra thing. But there is today in the original chain, it's completely exposed, and since the reform, the FAP have remained virtually unfunded. And all that's going on reform is that there's some extra equipment that it's all focused on in the designated so-called future hospital districts. So I have a warning or I don't want this redistribution left at all without any medical and medical aid in rural hospitals, in the countryside, so I can't see from this bill that it's going to help practically people in rural areas. And who can answer that? I'd vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u61	The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, there are many majors here. I have seven districts, for example. When you meet with medical authorities, the first question is: Give money. The government is proposing an additional grant to health facilities. Why should we not support this? I don't understand. I urge you to support this bill. It's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, this is a particularly important question, so I took the floor today. Indeed, the costs, if they reach the regions, are beneficial. We did not hear a good answer as to where the funds would go. For example, for the fourth year, I write a letter to the Ministry of Health on behalf of the citizens of two districts: Lokaczynski and Turiski on Volina. There's an X-ray machine in Locachin district since the '50s. He is much older than we are. What kind of fight against tuberculosis can be discussed? And it's the same in other areas. So the redistribution of funds I would see in that direction to help those centers where there's nothing at all. Because it's nice to talk about some new equipment. And when a person doesn't have an X-ray and has to go to the district center with any kind of fracture or other. Do you imagine these people's lives on our roads and transportation and all that?Oh, my God! So we can support the budget committee, but under the condition that the situation in rural areas will be thoroughly studied and the most necessary place will be put there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u64	Please, National Deputy Zvigilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Let each one look each other in the eye and tell the truth. Medicine is very, very weak today. Medicine, look, we don't have a future. Today, children who are born are mostly born disabled, either with one kidney or kidney, deaf or blind. And there are many diseases that medicine is obliged to bring to life the future of our generation! That's why I think and ask you, my friends, if there are 300 million in the country, give them up for the recovery of the children! Only for children's hospitals who can and must treat our children today! Because the future is very, very sad.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Indeed, it is a very difficult and painful question. Clearly, today we really need to consider the matter. And with regard to funding, especially the money that will go to the regions, we must decide to do so. I am simply informing and I think that this is in many parts of Ukraine. Today, a number of parts of the Westland are lacking in more than a million medical supplies. I mean, the last month of the year, they'll be out of jail, no wages. Of course, both the area and the areas will look for opportunities. But the question is still another. If medical reform has already begun and we do not finance it, we do not have the opportunity to provide the money to acquire the equipment that everyone needs to do in order to actually take some steps towards, above all, health workers and health care. It's not like we're going to be trampling around here, and we're going to be taking steps back. I'm completely in solidarity, and I don't think there's a person in the room who thinks otherwise, because the health problem is probably number one. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we need to go even more globally. Sooner or later, we have to adopt a strategic medical law: either it's insurance medicine or it's another form. This is such a broad issue that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, why are you voting for a reduced procedure? We've got four to go, and we've got ten. Is the question clear to everyone? Let me put it to the vote, and everyone will be determined. Yeah? Yeah, everybody sit down, I'll bet. Short-term procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] One by the microphone, and we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u69	Communist Party, Spirina. I just want to say that today's medical reform is a reform that is not scientifically sound. In order to reform, to be stable and clear, an analysis was needed in the areas in which it was being carried out. No analysis was carried out. There is no economic justification for it today. I asked Dnepropetrov region today to give me a justification. I didn't get it. What, then, can be said about the distribution of funds? To date, there is a primary and secondary link. Today the money comes from the primary chain – it's the areas that provide, the secondary chain is the area. Why was this done? First of all, it had to be differentiated, did it have to be distributed? It wasn't necessary to distribute it, because so far there have been two principals, three principals. How much money has been spent to date to provide an administration? This money could have gone specifically to the treatment of the sick, for today’s medication.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u70	Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Let's listen to the committee head, and I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u71	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, I have the impression that we are at parliamentary hearings on health issues, so emotionally, so much talk and know medicine. For 22 years in an independent Ukraine, we are talking about the urgent need to reform the medical sector. Ukrainians live 12-14 years less than in developed European countries. Child mortality is twice as high as in European countries. Maternal mortality is twice that and so forth. 65 percent of Ukrainians suffer from cardiovascular diseases. And many of us, when we went to the elections and in 2000, said that we promised medical reform. We must improve medical care in Ukraine. We promised, but none of us even touched or could. The promise of a better hospital for the future under the orange authorities. To date, there is no foundation. It's about doctors getting the lowest wage in all the budgetary professions in our country. And, of course, the reform initiated by the President of Ukraine is essential in our country. We have the whole population at the third level of medical care. We've forgotten what a professor's job is. We forgot what medical examinations are. That is why this reform has been initiated. And it's run in four pilot regions. And today we need to say that there are very positive results. There's an economic effect. There is also a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity. Yes, there are problems that are being studied today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u72	Tatiana Dmitrievna, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u73	We have considered the bill on the committee yesterday, and it must be supported. Not more than 25 per cent for areas and cities and not more than 75 per region. Therefore, it is very important that we move from discussion to what is needed by law. Let's hold it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Let's listen to the committee head, what we're talking about and what we should vote for. Because we're completely off the subject. Please. One minute and a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u75	30 seconds. I am very respectful of Tatiana Dmitryevna, representatives of the Communist Party, who spoke of medical reform. But I want to tell our colleagues that this is not about medical reform. It's about redistribution. 25 times 75, because the regional budgets have already taken on this burden. Therefore, I ask that, when we discuss financial matters, we do not become involved in medical reform. Thank you very much. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u76	Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2137) amending section 12 of Chapter IV of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for financing an experiment in the field of health) for adoption as a basis, the Committee is introducing, and in general. People's deputies please be identified, please vote. Please put it down. If you don't mind, please. Deputies are defined. What do you mean, gone, gone? Who held up? Who's holding up, please. What a result. 28 – against. How much, tell me.? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Count Commission, give me a result. Let's re-vote. Anyone against this decision, please raise your hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you holding up? 36 – against. 38? 37 against, 5 against. The decision is not taken. So, just so you know, there are suggestions in the room where 450 people, when they tell us, let's vote with ballots or hands, you can imagine what will happen. The decision is not taken. Let's go to the committee and get the government to read again. Members, please vote. We're going to the committees and to the government for a re-read. Who's in? Please put it down. Who's against it? Count it, we need numbers for statistics. It's a reckoning commission. Who held up? How much do you mind? 35 – against it. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. The law is rejected. A draft Act 2177 on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the definition of certain revenue for the budget is under consideration. It's a government law. The first deputy, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u77	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, the draft law set up by the government to carry out the Presidential mandate of 06.12.2012 with the aim of settling the issue of payroll for the provision of administrative services and avoiding inconsistencies in the separate provisions of the Budget Code. The proposed draft law proposes to exclude from articles 2 and 13 of the Budget Code the provision of salaries for the provision of administrative services to the own revenue of budgetary institutions and the elimination of conflict with the provisions of the same Budget Code, paragraphs 24, 29, and the direction of the use of the funds set out in the Budget Act 2013. In addition, the draft law proposes to supplement part two, article 29 of the Budget Code, namely: to refer to the income of the general budget of the State budget the registration assembly for the conduct of the national registration of legal persons and natural persons from July 1, 2013, as the corresponding functions will be transferred to the State registry. It is also proposed to amend articles 23 and 3 of the Budget Code for the purpose of introducing a mechanism for the introduction of State guarantee funds as chief budget managers for the implementation of capital expenditure. The changes proposed are aimed at avoiding potential risks in the practice of non-compliance with the provisions of the Ukraine Budget Code and the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year, which set out, inter alia, that Article 6 of the Act defines the scope and direction of State guarantees, inter alia, under the obligations of the main budget administrators, which arise from the costs involved for the execution of capital expenditure over the amounts set out in the budget allocations, as well as the end of the budget, paragraph 3 allows the principals of the funds to leave such costs. The substance of the changes allows for the addition of article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code by the provision that any budgetary commitments and payments are made for the availability of the corresponding budgetary assignment, unless otherwise provided by the State Budget Act for the year in question. So these positions will be settled in each law for the following periods. The end-of-life clauses expand the exceptions to the application of Part Four, paragraph 4, of Article 17 of the Budget Code to budget managers involved in the budget, in order to make capital expenditure more than the amount of established budgetary allocations. The government has carefully considered the proposals that have been made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and considers it possible for this bill to adopt in general, to agree with the proposals to exclude from this bill the provisions relating to the settlement of administrative services and registration services. That is, articles 2 and 13 and part 2 of article 29. Thus, with these positions in mind, there will be only questions concerning the granting of guarantees. The government is proposing this bill, taking into account such additions, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u78	How will we discuss it? Short cut? Please vote in favour of the short-term proposal. I'll follow the rules. You're criticizing me, and I'm going to be two in favor and two in favor. That's it. I beg you, the decision is made. The account. Committee head Geller Evgeny Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow MPs! Anatoly Ivanovich took all the work from me, and he reported that the Cabinet of Ministers had agreed to our proposals. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. The question is, what did Anatoly Mihajlovich sound just now, Anatoly Ivanovich, you're me. The bill excludes the registration and registration of legal persons and individuals of enterprises. This issue should be considered separately, handling it with other changes to the budget code.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Would you like to make a statement on this matter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u81	Deputy Jerobník, 14th District, member of the Budget Committee. A similar bill was tabled by Mr. Zarubinski, and the Committee on Budgets amended its amendments to ensure that, according to the Committee on Budgets, all expenses and guarantees and projects to be financed. It is not clear why the bill is being introduced outside the budget committee and under the dome today. I would like my colleague to point out that, without the signature of the members of the Committee of Budgets and by agreeing not to vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u82	Sit down, we have a reduced procedure. Please, are there any other speakers? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u83	Byduk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, the bill has been passed, discussing it, on the committee at the meeting very violently. And it envisions a return to the old norm that worked successfully until November 2012. That is, the revenue from the provision of administrative services will come, not to the budgetary institutions, but to the general fund of the state budget. However, it should be noted that the bill proposes coming from the registration congregation for the registration of entrepreneurs to send directly to the budget. And as we know, one legal person's registration costs 170 dollars and the natural person's 34 bracelets. This means direct losses of local budgets, which are now almost empty. This is by no means acceptable, especially since the amount of revenue in the state budget is small. In 2012, he made up 20 million dollars, and at the local level, it would not be too expensive. So the Company's faction suggests that we should approach this situation more comprehensively, taking into account specific proposals. In particular, the revenues of local budgets already foreseen for the current year are fully accounted for in determining the amount of inter-budget transfers. It is therefore necessary to establish that these changes will take effect not earlier than the following year: from 1 January 2014, so that they can be taken into account for the next year in determining the amounts of local budgets and inter-budget transfers. Or there should be compensation for the loss of local budgets in the current year. So a faction of Communists insists. And this bill can be accepted under the terms of the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u84	Please, National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u85	National MP Smithukh, Party of Regions. Dear friends, well, we are talking about giving authority to local authorities, including the budget. But there is an objective situation that involves the creation of a business entity’s registration. And these small costs, they could remain, in my opinion, local budgets. Why are we concentrating them in the central budget, so we're reducing revenue to the local budget? After all, we have enough local authorities, and these funds, including support, to solve problems. Because we know that local budgets do not have enough funds to finance their needs. I would think that this is the part of this bill that should be removed. As for the other questions, it is true. I have this proposal: To accept this bill as a basis, but it is necessary to withdraw it and leave it in the local budget when it comes to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u86	The committee's closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u87	Vladimir Vasilevich, I would like to say to Mr. Smith and Mrs. Baiduk that in my report, the representative of Minfin, the first deputy, and I, when I reported, had taken this drink. So you don't have to say that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, with the suggestions made by the speaker. I am voting on the draft Law, registration number 2177, amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to determine some of the revenue of the budget with proposals from the communists in the first reading and in general. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? I can't see. It's a reckoning commission. It's a reckoning commission. Who's holding up? The result? 235 – in favour, one – against and holding back – is not. Decision taken. Act No. 8: Draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (on the functioning of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine and the State Service of Ukraine with exceptional circumstances). Presentation of the committee. How will we consider this question? For this procedure, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who's holding up? A unanimous decision. 236 deputies accepted. Report by Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u89	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The need to change the State budget for 2013 is due to the approval of the Presidential Decree of 24 December 2012 on measures to optimize the system of central executives, such as the amendments proposed in Appendix 3 of the State Budget Act and the creation of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly and the State Service in emergency situations. The state service regulations on emergency situations and on the Ministry of Income and Assembly were approved by Presidential Decrees of Ukraine of 16 January 2013 and of 18 March 2013. These changes are balanced by expenditure and income and provide for the approval of the 2013 budgetary targets totalling 9 billion 837 million 654 thousand dollars and for two new funds managers. So it's within the total cost that's in the budget that works. their distribution is established among the new money managers. For the Ministry of Income and Congregations, such new expenditures amount to 5 billion 888 million 288,8 thousand dollars under five budget programmes by combining the State Customs and the State Tax Service, which are now determined by the level 2 administrator in eight programs in the Minfin system. And the second. For the State Emergency Service, an amount of 3 billion 949,365.2 thousand dollars is determined under nine budget programs for the transfer of eleven budget programmes from the MNS and the State Agency for Safety. The issue of the transfer of 12 units of $1.7 billion from the MNP of the remaining budget programmes to the 12 units of expenditure of 1.7 billion by the State Department for the Management of the Aliens Zone and Dergipromvision will be resolved by a separate government decision, in accordance with Article 23 of the Budget Code, after approval by the President of Ukraine of the Regulations for the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, the Ministry of Social Policy and the refinement of the functions of these ministries. So the bill is balanced. It does not change the overall balance, but it only refers to the definition of new principals of funds. The request is to uphold this law on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u90	A report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Eugene Borisovich Geller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on February 27, the current year, reviewed the draft law (registration number 2408) amending Appendix 3 to the Act on State Budget 2013. Taking into account the stated and the need to create conditions for the full operation of the newly created central executive bodies, the committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill for registration number 2408 as a result of the first reading review to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the changes mentioned in the letter to the committee on the bill. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications in the drafting of the law, in addition to the bill, relating to the approved committee's decision on the bill. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u92	Would you like to make a statement? None. I would like to vote on the draft Act (2408) amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for the functioning of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine and the State Service of Ukraine with exceptional circumstances (submission of the Committee 19.03. 2013) on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee’s proposals. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? What decision? For 232. There isn't. Hold on. No, I don't. Decision taken. A draft Act (2547) is under consideration to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the creation of a penny in the event of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments or delays). How will we view it? Short-term. Please vote for this decision. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. You holding up? None. 230 people's deputies in favor. Report, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Company brought to your attention the draft Law 2547, which deals with a very painful and serious problem. This is the answer to a question that we have a state, whether it's legal or not, as far as we have the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. First of all, the right to work, the right to a decent life, and the right to a salary. Pay attention, reverends. We don't have the 15th century, we don't have the 16th century. A man comes to work, works. The slave was fed three times a day! And today, we don't pay wages for months and years. So the faction of the Company brought to your attention a bill that I already said is under number 2547. According to the State Statistics Service, Ukraine’s payroll debt for February 1, 2013 amounted to more than 1 billion dollars. On January 1, this year, the debt was 893 million. I mean, we're getting more and more debt! So this indicator has risen by 12.5 percent in just about 3 months this year. And this problem requires further legislative regulation for the benefit of the worker! The purpose of the draft law is to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens, the social protection of employees, pensioners and students. Because that's what affects both students and pensioners. On the one hand, pensioners. If a billion of these wages were paid, the Pension Fund would have a minimum of 300 million dollars. If this salary were paid, the local budget would have at least 150 million dollars. So I'm not giving your attention by chance, my dear colleagues, that it's not just about the workers. This affects the same pensioners as the same students. The conditions for the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens are defined by article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is regulated by labour legislation, which, by the way, lays down the conditions for the conclusion of employment contracts, their changes, the grounds for the dismissal of workers, the conditions for payment of work, the protection of workers from illegal dismissal, and so forth. The bill proposes to set the amount of pennies paid to citizens due to the default or delay in payment of 0.5 percent of the outstanding amount of debt for each day of payment delay. I understand, dear colleagues, that this is a discussional question, which is the size of a penny to set. And I urge you to, let's do second reading, by making all the suggestions, we'll make the right decision to, in fact, settle the issue that, in terms of keeping the circulation costs, if, indeed, they are investing in the development of the enterprise, but most importantly today, there is no way to contribute to the continued non-payment of wages. The bill provides for the release of a person from criminal liability for an act provided for in article 175 of the Criminal Code in the first and second sections of article 175 of the Ukrainian Penal Code, only if such a person is fully entitled to criminal liability and pays the full amount of the penalty for the period of delay of payment. In the vast majority, by the way, respected colleagues in European countries are acting by special legislative acts that provide for severe economic sanctions against employers of debtors and grant certain rights to hired workers to avoid delaying payout periods. In the event of a failure to pay a salary, the employer is found to be guilty of violating the obligations of labour law and employment contract and, accordingly, the debtor of the property. I'm once again drawing your attention, my fellow Members, in Europe, to very strict legislation, and we're talking to you about European values and we're talking about Ukraine trying to join Europe. So the employee's income debt is the employee's property that the employer uses. Yes, in Germany the responsibility for the late payment of wages provided for in the Civil Code is the German civil position. According to the Civil Code of France and the Civil Code of Italy, employers have to pay for more than 90 days’ wages for the payment of salaries. The interest rate is equal to the bank interest on credit in the area. These are also European standards. In the Netherlands, when wages are delayed, more than 90 days ’ wages are 60 percent of the amount of unpaid wages. In Denmark, labour legislation provides for the right of employees to stop working if the delay in payment is three or more days.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u94	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u95	I'm done. Last paragraph. The adoption of the proposed Faction of the UK Change Act will improve the social protection of workers and increase the responsibility of employers in pre-crisis conditions in Ukraine's economy. The Company's faction reiterates its request to you, Your Honor, to support in the first reading a draft law that deals primarily with the protection of our workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u96	Thank you. A report by the head of the Committee on Social Policy. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Two minutes, please. Let's follow the rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to report that, by virtue of the technical reasons, as well as the fact that the committee has been charged with bills, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has not officially considered this bill, as it were, but I have a signed letter in my hands with the position of all members of the committee, except for Svetlana Samuelivna Fabricant. And the opinions of the committee on the position of this bill split in half. Therefore, the session room must make a decision on this matter. Dear colleagues, you and I are all eyewitnesses that Ukraine has such a shameful phenomenon as debt on wages. Moreover, I would like to emphasize what Peter Mikolaiovich was talking about, which, unfortunately, is a tendency to increase this debt. Since the beginning of the year, the debt for wages has increased by almost 200 million dollars. This phenomenon must be brought to an end. I want to say that in Soviet times, the Soviet system itself acted as a guarantee that a person would get a full pay and full pay on time. And all the other moments, the minor misunderstandings that had arisen, there were other kinds of responsibilities. So, as head of the committee, as a member of the committee, I propose to take this document as a basis. And those proposals that are about the size of a penny, they're the subject of discussion. It could be smaller, it could be larger. But we really have to solve this problem, because it's really a disgraceful problem for the people of Ukraine. Especially given that the wages themselves are small in size in most citizens, and when they are paid in a timely manner, that is an additional problem. Thank you again. Please support the document as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you. Anna Mikolayevna wants to speak. Let's give it here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, this bill is probably one of the best we've been looking at lately. This is a real concern for people who should not tolerate delays in their wages. If a person is not paid a salary for one reason or another, the person has the percentage that the money is stored in the bank. That's right, that's fair. And I think that today we should vote this bill unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u100	Please report for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u101	One of them did. Three more. Two for, two against. All right, we stick to the rules. Please. The second speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u102	Anatoly Girschfeld. Of course, the employer is fully responsible for the timely payment of wages. But we cannot steal this question from the context alone. Today, we have a phenomenon where the State does not fulfil its obligations to employers in the form of early VAT return, overpayment of the profit tax and so on. And for such enterprises where a State does not fulfil its obligations, these issues must be dealt with separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u103	Please, Smitch. Another MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnck’s concern about paying the wages of those who work in businesses is that we all support it. But at the same time, I can't agree with the idea that an entrepreneur who organizes, and an entrepreneur is tasked with organizing jobs today, has an additional responsibility – criminal and financial. Think about what in one month, if it lasts, is 15 percent. What should he pay the workers today? What can he go to a bank to borrow money from, how does it happen in European banks? He can't do that. If we already want to take this responsibility, if we want to translate it into employers, then let's do it this way: let's then provide financing or lending to enterprises under the conditions that exist today in the European Union if we are in a market relationship. But there can't be when an entrepreneur can't take a loan today or take a 25-30 percent loan, plus impose fines like 15 percent. If we want to destroy the entrepreneur today, if we want to reduce job creation, we have to introduce this rule. So I'm definitely against this issue in terms of looking at it from that point of view. It needs to be resolved in a complex, and it must be linked to the credit and financial policies of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u105	Now, now. Shufrich asks, please. As the author, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Of course, the question that we're looking at right now is complicated, but it's too important. And I'm addressing everyone who, regardless of who's the author of the law, we now have to demonstrate responsibility and consciousness and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Moreover, we need to understand that during the second reading process, we must take into account the aspect that the employer may at times not be able to fulfill his obligations because the State has not fulfilled its obligations to him. These two must be linked. But there must be a responsibility to people for not paying their wages. And, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, I ask you to vote this law on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u107	I am voting on the draft Law 2547: amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of foam in the event of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payment or delay on the basis. Please vote. On the basis only. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? Two. Three. The committee will prepare for the second reading. Decision taken. Draft Law. On the basis of the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished people's deputies, friends! Let's gather, as we can, let's work today full, finish all the questions you have, Vladimir Vasiljevic, without interruption, and go to 16 numbers. May I? Keep me posted, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u109	There is a question, draft Act Nos. 2291 and 2291-1: amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce (for State Regulations, Agreements and Contracts). Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Oneshenko Alexander Romanovich. Is it? Please, Alexander Romanovich. And yet, under the second law, the National MP, Laupin Xenya Mikhailnovna, should report. Is it? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, at the end of 2012, the State settlement and conclusion mechanism that had been in place for more than 10 years and the implementation of the product division agreement had been balanced as a result of inadequate legislative changes. In particular, the law on the agreement was repealed, under which the Cabinet of Ministers, as a party to the agreement, could delegate part of its economic authority to the relevant Central Authority of the Executive. As a result, the Cabinet of Ministers, in the process of implementing the product-sharing agreement, will be required to issue monthly orders for approval of the gas meter, which will determine the physical volume of the extracted gas to be distributed between the investor and the State. An interdepartmental commission for the organization of the conclusion and implementation of product-sharing agreements was also eliminated. In addition to inter-ministerial coordination of the preparation of draft agreements on the principle of the treatment of an investor in a single window, the Commission had an important political function, involved in the process of preparing agreements between the people's deputies and representatives of local governments, whose territories were the sub-soil sites that were presented for distribution. Bill 2291 proposes to re-establish the rule on the functioning of the interdepartmental commission, as well as a provision on the possibility of delegating by the Cabinet the Ministers of a number of economic functions in the implementation of product-sharing agreements to the authorized central executive authority. I request the adoption of a bill amending the Agreement Act, on the division of products concerning the State settlement, the conclusion and implementation of agreements on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm asking the committee to report, two minutes, to the national deputy of Kaltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, after examining the two bills, I would like to mention the following. According to the 2291 project, the interministerial commission is formed from representatives of various branches of authority: executive powers, national deputies, local governments. The procedure for forming a commission is defined in article 5, which I think is a sound and progressive norm. In the alternative project, the commission consists of only representatives of the central executives, and no one else. This position of project 2291-1, I think, is wrong. I think the commission is therefore called the inter-minister, that it should include in its composition representatives of various departments, different branches of power, otherwise it's not the inter-minister at all. I would also like to point out that alternative project 2291-1 proposes to exclude the existence of an interdisciplinary commission working body. To whom, then, should we present claims, with whom to deal with a dialogue? The commission is people, it's not an organ, it's a body, they've come together, they've made decisions, and they've split up. And the body should work among the board’s meetings, so its existence is necessary and objectively inevitable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the alternative project number 2291-1, the working body itself is excluded, but not everywhere. For example, article 11 of the alternative draft does not exclude the position of the working body. See, your colleagues, according to the draft production distribution agreement, you have to register with the working body itself, and where will you take it if the authors of the alternative bill have taken this body everywhere? So I ask my colleagues to support Bill 2291 and alternative Bill 2291-1 to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u113	Would you like to make a statement? None. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm betting on draft number 2291, you've heard, from the committee, about making changes to the Production Allocation Agreements Act. Take it as a base. Please vote. 2291. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? To - 234. There isn't. No, I didn't. Decision taken. The question is: The draft Law 1177: amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. How will we consider this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u114	Please vote in favour of this proposal: a reduced procedure. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? Decision taken. Report of the First Deputy Minister of Justice. Emilian’s Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, you have before you a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws in connection with the introduction of a state registration of immovable property rights. The project is proposed in connection with the introduction of a state registration system to amend a number of codes and laws. It's, in particular, the Land, Family, Civil Code, the Mortgage Act, the Financial and Credit Facility and Property Management in Housing Building, the Cooperation Act, the Land Disengagement Act, other real estate objects, and so on. In particular, it is suggested that all of these laws, which I have called, be excluded from the position regarding the state registration of the perpetrators, taking into account that there is a special law today that regulates this issue. And to complement the corresponding standard with positions that determine the order of acquisition, transition, and termination of property rights and other immovable property rights. The implementation of this law will facilitate the regulation of laws governing social relations in the area of real estate registration. Asking for support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u116	Thank you, thank you. Deputies! I see it's hard, there are no conditions in this room. But sit down, because there's a direct broadcast going on, and they're going to speculate on it. I'm asking for a report from the committee of the People's Deputy Kaltsev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u117	Deputies! It is clear that the setting of new, fundamentally different rules for the registration of real estate cannot prevent changes to the current legislation. So the modernization of valid laws in the area of acquisition, transition, termination of property rights to real estate is essential. This bill is timely. Our citizens are already actively accustomed to the fact that there is now a single register instead of a number of different registers for immovable property. Yes, I agree that the new procedure for documenting the circulation of immovable property requires changes not only to land and civil legislation, but also to legislation that regulates the relationship between local self-government and cooperation. That's why I support this bill. But the bill has quite contradictory standards, for example, when the same positions overlap with different standards. For example, changes to article 384 of the Ukrainian Civil Code and the existing provisions of article 182 of the Civil Code. But these questions can be dealt with quite routinely when preparing the bill for second reading. The main thing is, if we don't start to improve existing legislation quickly in terms of the new rules of the real estate game, we can get negative results. There may be a conflict between existing rules and the new legislation that regulates the registration of real estate, which will make it much more difficult, particularly for the judiciary. So I think the bill should be accepted as a basis, and then we will work hard on it in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u118	Would you like to make a statement? Please prepare to make a decision. I am voting on the draft Law 1177: amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. Take it as a base. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? You holding up? 233-yes. There isn't. Hold on. No, I don't. Draft Act No. 2138 is under consideration: Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Responsibility of Officials of Operators of Electronic Courses. How will we view it? I'd like to take a look. Who's in favour of this proposal, for a brief discussion, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who's holding up? Decision taken. Report to the Deputy Justice Minister, Inn Jemelyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On June 7, 2012, the Supreme Council passed a law introducing an electronic reverse auction procedure. Thus, in the Final and Transitional Positions of this Act it was stipulated that amendments should be made to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of administrative responsibilities of officials - operators of electronic sites. In this regard, it is suggested that you amend the Code on Administrative Violations, namely, the amendments to article 164, which is marked 14, by establishing the responsibility of officials — operators of electronic sites for non-compulsory refusal to organize or conduct an electronic reverse auction, by registering persons who wish to become subscribers or participants in an electronic reverse auction procedure and for violating the rules of the electronic auction. The approval of this draft law, honourable national deputies, to ensure that officials comply with the statutory procedure for conducting reverse auctions. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u120	Thank you. The account. Deputy Head of the Legislative Security Committee Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich and distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, prepared in the first reading of the Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Responsibility of Officials of Operators of Electronic Courses. What are some of the suggestions? Article 164, bearing the 14 badge (the "Infringements of the legislation on the procurement of goods, works and services at State expense"), does not apply to special periods of time for the imposition of administrative charges provided for in part 38 of the proposed edition of article 164. The Ukrainian Anti-Monopoly Committee shall be de-authorized in respect of the establishment of protocols for administrative offences provided for in article 164 with a badge of 14 and amendments to article 225, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the need for the legislative novelties proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is due to the fact that the laws of Ukraine on the introduction into the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement (for the introduction of an electronic reverse auction procedure) since 7 June 2012 have been introduced. The committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u122	Desiring to speak. You won't? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u123	Let's vote. Let's take it as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u124	National Deputy Zharavsky. I am voting on the draft Act (2138) amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the Responsibility of Officials of Operators of Electronic Courses, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? 232 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. A draft Act (1118) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine relating to the provision of individual categories of persons. How will we view it? The proposal is short for discussion. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? Decision taken. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viacheslav Mikolayovich Kolomiyec.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The financing of payments and the delivery of early retirement pensions at the age of the benefits prior to reaching the general age of retirement is currently carried out at the expense of the employer by paying the actual costs of payment and delivering pensions at the age of the Ukrainian Pension Fund to the firm on which the pensioner worked. The arrival of funds from enterprises to reimburse the actual costs of payment and delivery of fixed-term pensions at the age of the Pension Fund over the past years amounted to only 70 per cent of the total amount of pensions paid to persons employed at work with particularly harmful and particularly difficult working conditions under list 1; and 80 per cent of the total amount of the pension fund paid to persons employed at other jobs with harmful and difficult working conditions under list 2. The existing mechanism for compensation to employers of pension benefits for former employees is a rather burdensome burden for businesses. As a result, the Ukrainian Pension Fund financed such pensions at its own expense. The draft law proposes to change the pension financing mechanism, which is designed to cover the benefits, by replacing the actual costs of payment and delivering fixed-term pensions to employers of a single contribution to payment of pension benefits. The proposed additional tariffs will allow for the arrival of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the size that corresponds to the forecast coming of 2013 for the costs of enterprises to compensate for the actual costs of payment and delivery of fixed-term pensions at an age. The bill also provides for the extension of the debt owed to enterprises, institutions and organizations for the reimbursement of actual payments***, the cost of payment and the delivery of pension benefits on January 1, 2013, for 36 calendar months. So the proposed option of the compensation mechanism for the payment and delivery of pension benefits is the most acceptable, in our view. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u126	Thank you. Have a seat. The committee should report to Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich, and he's not here, is he? None. From the committee, who's going to speak? Please, People's Deputy Morozenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u127	28th District, Dnepropetrovsk, Morozenko. Dear colleagues! The bill was considered in the Committee and was not supported for the following reasons. It is proposed that the situation of accrual, additional payroll, be substantially changed. Thus, the category of disability pension from 50 years of age increases to 15 per cent for the Pension Fund and 7 per cent for those from 55. The current situation in which enterprises currently retire and compensate for the pension is a fact. There are actual accruals, the Pension Fund pays to retirees and then there are accruals. We are invited to do so in a planned manner, regardless of how many people are actually going to work under harmful conditions, it will still be listed by the enterprise from its salary. In the view of the Committee, there will be many increases in the contributions of pension workers. And you can't let that happen. It's a very serious burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u128	Are there any others? You don't? Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on draft law (1118) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension provision of individual categories of persons. It's a government project. There is an offer to accept it as a basis, and let them work on it. Please vote. Take it as a base. Please put it down. Against? Who's against it? Please vote. We have to count and write for the transcript. You can count how much it's against, how much it's held up. How much? 38 – against it. Hold on, will you? Five, hold on. The decision is not taken. There's an offer to send it to the review committee. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u129	support the proposal of a committee recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers be sent to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u130	Did you hear the offer? I'm putting this motion to a vote: send the Cabinet of Ministers to work. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? 234 -- that's the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, there's an offer, we have a 14-hour session to conclude, so I'd like to put the vote to a vote, take a look here, we'll be out in 14 hours, we'll look at the agenda, which is scheduled, completely uninterrupted, and we'll conclude today's meeting. I'll bet you a vote. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who's holding up? 234. Thank you. We're working. Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Retirement before Ukraine on the Assignment of Retirement to Parents Who Raised Five or More Children (1244). How will we view it? Short-term? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? He'll report. 234. Who's going to report? Deputy Minister Viacheslav Mikolaiovich Kolomiec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u131	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Honourable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine, provides for the establishment of pensions for special merit in the form of a pension allowance. In particular, mothers who have given birth to five or more children and raised them to six years of age are set between 35 and 40 percent of the working minimum. The bill provides for the extension of the right to a special merit pension before Ukraine. He also raised five and more children by the age of six when his mother died. The proposed norm will correspond to the ideology of the Ukrainian Law on Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance. The adoption of the bill will ensure social justice in relation to parents who, in the event of the death of a child’s mother or deprived parental rights, have brought up five or more children up to the age of six. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u132	Have a seat. Thank you. Yes, the committee's conclusion: accept as a basis. Mr. Suškevitch is gone. I'm asking the committee, and then I'm asking you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the committee considered the bill at its meeting. He supported him with all his voices. Therefore, it is a request from all members of the committee to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I have an offer to support this bill in the first reading as a whole. Considering that there is a great need for this law to take effect as soon as possible. There are many parents who raise their children on their own. And there is one mechanism that will also encourage Ukrainian society to overcome that shameful practice of reducing the number of Ukrainian citizens. We must continue to adopt laws that will help us to change the tendency to reduce the nation, to turn the parents into interested in giving birth and raising. And a longtime family in Ukraine became the norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u136	Please. Let's have a name and speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u137	We're looking at a government project, I'm betting on a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u138	I am voting on the draft Law 1244 amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine on the Assignment of Retirement to Parents Who Raised Five or More Children. The committee shall make a proposal to accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u139	Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u140	Don't worry, it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! We realize that it is not easy to raise children. Sometimes there are problems with one, with two, and imagine five children raising and letting go of adult life. I think that we must treat them with due respect today, and I ask, Sir Vladimir Vasilovich, to put the bill as a whole to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u142	I am voting on the draft Law 1244 amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine on the appointment of pensions to parents who raised five and more children as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? 236 people's deputies in favor. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Law 1246 (Governmental) is under consideration: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Codification of Economic Activities. How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please put it down. Is there a problem? None. You holding up? None. Reported to the First Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Maksutta Anatoly Arkadyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u143	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, is being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Tax Code to modify the codification of economic activities. The draft law is designed to bring the tax code into line with the new codes for classifications of economic activities, the last year of which ended in 2012. And it was necessary to bring them into line with the Tax Code so that they could be used, especially with regard to the setting of benefits. In fact, the draft law is technical. The bottom line is that 2005 codes are replaced by 2010 codes. So he asked for his support. The only comment before him was regarding the term of validity of this law. So given that today's entry, the last date of the classification was transferred from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2014, taking into account the definition of a new deadline for its entry into force, please accept as a basis and, if possible, as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u144	The report is headed by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposals are certainly valid, since their adoption will enable them to avoid legal colossion as a result of the loss of a valid classification of economic activities in the 2005 model. At the same time, it should be noted that most taxpayers have already changed the codes of economic activity, and in the Tax Code some rules have direct references to old codes of economic activity. In this regard, provision should be made for situations under which the wrong code of activity would not be justified in canceling a single tax payer’s issued certificate or refusing to issue a new tax payer’s certificate. We need to make such changes when we work on the second reading. The committee therefore recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u146	Would you like to make a statement? None. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on draft Act 1246: amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to modify the codification of economic activities. Take it as a base. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? 235 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. The draft Law 2029 is under consideration: amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Registration of Persons as Taxpayers. The report is Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's "against"? Who "retained"? The decision was taken unanimously. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the bill that is presented to you is proposed to significantly simplify the procedure for the registration of persons as taxpayers, namely to allow, in the course of the national registration of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs to file a statement with the registration card of the State registry for the receipt of the certificate, first, the payer of the single tax, and secondly, the payer of the VAT. The project provides that an electronic copy of applications for registration of VAT payer or the selection of a simplified system of taxation shall be transmitted by the State registry to the DPS authorities on the day of the state registration at the same time as the information from the registration card. The State Tax Service -- now it's the Ministry of Income and Congregations -- no later than the next working day from the date of receipt of the electronic copy of the application is issued to the applicant or by mail the testimony of the payer of the single tax. A licence to register a person as a payer of VAT is issued to the applicant or sent by mail no later than the following working day after the desired payment of the tax paid in his application or within five working days of the date of arrival of the registration card. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also registered Bill 2139, which amends the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. For the practical implementation of the proposed simplified registration mechanism for persons as taxpayers and for the purpose of eliminating disagreements in the application of the law, these two laws must take effect simultaneously. The bill is valid within three months of its official publication. No decision has been made by the Committee on Important Observations to this draft law. That's why we're proposing to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u148	Thank you. The head of the committee, the report, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please. Committee proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! The proposed changes are correct because they are aimed at simplifying the procedures for initiating a business in part of the registration of a legal person or a natural person who is an entrepreneur of a taxpayer. And the committee's recommendation was accepted as a basis, and it could be accepted as a whole, but they are linked to the law that Mr. Merkovsky, 2139 said. And he's not in the daytime. So we can, in principle, vote, because the deadline for implementing this law is three months. But we have to have a proper understanding that we're in the next plenary meeting, where this is going to be a condition -- incomprehensible -- to accept 2139. Because this decision will then not be entirely valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u150	The committee's proposal, which, clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u151	It would be more logical to take this as a basis for the next plenary session to consider this second reading and 2139 is the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs. Then they'll work at the same time. Otherwise, we're going to accept this now as a whole, and it's going to be out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u153	Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I have a request. What risks do we have if we don't take the second law: That this law will take effect. We have three months. At the very least, there will be a problem -- we can fix it in three months. So I have a request on the ground and in general to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u154	Someone. Everything? And there's no comment. He said you could, in principle. Honourable deputies, I am voting on draft Law 2029: amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Registration of Persons as Taxpayers. Let's take it as a base first and then listen, there's a proposition. This law, there is an offer, to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. You holding up? None. The committee's proposal, let's formulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u155	Then for the transcript, Vladimir Vasilovich, to record that 2139, which is not being considered today, should be considered at the next meeting. And in that case we can vote this one in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u156	Do we have a deal? Then there is a proposal, draft Law 2029, to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code for the registration of persons as tax payers as a whole. Please vote. As a matter of fact. Please put it down. Who's against it? How much? 33 versus, held on. 200, 33, against. The Law was adopted in the first reading as a basis, and work. Government Act 2084, amending Article 287 of the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Creation and Functioning of Industrial Parks, is under consideration. How will we view it? Please vote, who's in favor of the shorter procedure? Please put it down. Who's-against? There aren't any. Who held up? None. For 232. Reported by Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut, First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is brought to your attention regarding the amendment of Article 287 of the Customs Code. The essence of the law is that existing legislation has the function of approving the lists of goods released in connection. Taxation in connection with import into industrial parks is determined by the State-owned project, which provides only a census. The government is proposing that these functions be made available to the Cabinet of Ministers and that, in addition to listings, they also identify the quantities of goods that are imported and classified by type of goods of external economic activity. Thus, this will allow increased control of the soundness and purpose of the benefits that will be available to import equipment into industrial parks. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u158	Have a seat. Thank you. The report is headed by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich, please, Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u159	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, proposed changes aimed at strengthening import control and the targeted use of goods whose customs clearance will be carried out with the payment of import tax benefits to implement investment projects within industrial parks. At the same time, the bill needs to determine the responsibility for the purposeless use of customs goods to be paid in respect of import duties and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the procedure for importing such goods. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u160	Thank you. Would you like to make a statement? Please. Introducing for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u161	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, is of course the industrial parks in many countries are functioning effectively. For example, in the People’s Republic of China, these parks have enabled the emergence of very large and important projects of national importance. Unfortunately, in recent years, I have estimated that the legislative acts that we have adopted that have not worked in Ukraine to stimulate or create conditions for such parks. You remember that when we adopted the Tax Code, we accordingly laid down five main areas of benefits, including rural machinery, airplane building, shipbuilding, light industry, and inns. I would think that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Economics should come out of these positions. If we have a very important question. To raise machinery for the rural sector, I would think that these industrial parks or these projects, which are of national importance, are specifically designed for them to create these kind of pay-as-you-go conditions that would give them a boost, first of all, to create jobs. Secondly, they would allow us to recreate or re-produce what we are today depending on imports. Then it would be realistic to accept these benefits, because unfortunately, I don't have an analysis of this bill, but what was created today from industrial parks and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u162	Offer!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u163	So I would suggest that this bill be supported in the first reading, but in the second reading, I would like to make constructive suggestions to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Ministry of Economics so that we can assess and adopt a comprehensive program or implement it into a national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u164	Please. People's deputies, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u165	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u166	Please. Your name.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u168	You'll present yourself for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u169	There's a lot of stuff down here: equipment. Hirschfeld Anatoly Moiseyevich, 179th District. Equipment, appliances and kits, and materials. With regard to equipment, equipment for investment projects, the employer's position has always been that such equipment should indeed be imported at zero duty. As for kits and materials, the extent to which we had tech parks and special zones, it has always been a period of time, it has always been a subject of abuse. Therefore, I believe that everything about equipment should be left behind and that it is not produced in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u170	There's an offer. I am voting on the draft Act (2084) amending article 287 of the Ukrainian Customs Code (for the creation and functioning of industrial parks) to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? 229 — yes. There's one against it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Proposal for a committee as a whole. Once there is an offer, let them work and prepare. Huh? Nope. Take it easy. We hear each other. I am voting on the draft Law (2084) amending article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the creation and functioning of industrial parks) to be adopted as a law as a whole. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. Who held up? There's still a Saint. How much do you mind? None. How long did it last? Ten. The decision is not taken. The Law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Let's move on. The draft Law 1178 is under consideration: on the repayment of the debt of government coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine. How will we view it? Please vote in favour of the short-term discussion. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? A unanimous decision has been made. First Deputy Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Makucha Vladimir Aleksyyyovich will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to improve the situation of coal companies with the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases. This will allow the Fund to make timely and full commitments to victims of production and to their families regarding insurance payments and social services. Today, the debt owed to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases was incurred by coal companies in 2009 as a result of government decisions to postpone payment of social insurance contributions. Since March 2010, companies have been paying full expenses, insurance contributions to social insurance funds. However, because of the financial deficit in the sector’s enterprises, we cannot pay off the debt accumulated on March 1, 2010. Indigestion includes fines and pennies, arrests are placed on the current accounts of coal - mining enterprises by performing services that can completely paralyze the industry and lead to social tension in mining areas. On January 1, 2013, the debt owed to coal companies to the fund was 564 million dollars, including fines and pennies — 80.2 million dollars. And in 2012 alone, there are fines and fines for 27.9 million dollars. The bill is designed to address the issue of debt repayment of public coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases by restructuring the stated debt over a period of not more than 120 calendar months from the date of the contract of schedule with a further monthly maturity of equal parts. The adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Please consider the possibility of accepting it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. Please. We've got two pros, two against, we'll give it all. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, since there is no Deputy Denisov, as chairman of the committee, I will report on this bill's consideration at a committee meeting. I mean, honourable colleagues, this bill is a big welcome from the previous government. There's a lot of talk about how great it's been, and this is 560 million from the previous government. That's the first one. The other one. I want to say that the committee supported this bill but supported it in the first reading. In view of the fact that committee members in the process of preparing for second reading would insist that the restructuring term should not be reduced by 120 months, because in 120 months we will not find any enterprises. But it's 60, and it's better that it's less. We're going to shorten that term. And secondly, we have to distribute it to all the coal companies. So, Your Honor, please support this bill in the first reading. Once again, I stress that there are issues that need to be settled in the process of preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. I can see that it's hard, but there's free space, and people have the idea that there are no deputies in the room. Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, the law is very important. And today, the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee reported that the former or former members of the Government had allowed gross violations of the law, sent telegrams, fax cards, and state-owned enterprises, coal enterprises, to the Social Insurance Fund in a timely manner. In this fund today 87 per cent are disabled persons who have been injured, and occupational diseases are miners. I would like this law to be supported, and today we have voted it both as a basis for first reading and generally as a law. The Chairman of the Committee reported that the deadline should be reduced. I don't mind. But I would like to inform you that the situation in the coal industry today is something that is happening, and I have with me a number of CEOs, 265 million coal per month, and a monthly wage fund of 280 million government enterprises. Therefore, the term defined by the ministries is set in order to settle. Today, in addition to the fact that 700 million debts due to the previous Government have this fund and every month, every month we have an additional 30 million each year. We will impose such debts on the coal industry, which today is in a very difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u176	What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u177	I propose to support this bill today in the first reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u178	I'm asking you, Matvienkov, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, well, I don't think anyone has any doubt that the disabled are not to blame for this situation. The question needs to be addressed. But I would like to take a closer look at and recall the situation when the law on the foundation was passed. We all did today. Both those with 10 regressors and those dealing with security technology have the same category of complexity for the enterprise. They're equally contributing to this fund. Both the business and the company that does not work are, so to speak, responsible to these people. Therefore, I would like the Committee to take up those issues and look at them in a differentiated way. An enterprise that spends money on labour protection, security technology, deals with these issues, is not able to finance those who do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u180	Last speaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u181	Goncharov, 51st District. Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished members of the people! I wholeheartedly ask you to support this bill today and in general. Because the bill was due to start working on 1 January. Since it did not start working on 1 January this year, today individual institutions are simply blocking the financial accounts of coal enterprises. Coal enterprises are now blocked and standing. A convincing request on behalf of our miners is to support the bill as a whole. In addition, Vladimir Vasiljevic, I ask that the draft law, 1175, be added to the plenary for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u182	Thank you. I am voting on the bill of Law 1178, on the repayment of the debt of state-owned coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine. Let's take it as a base. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. Who's against it? Who held up? 230-yes. On the first reading, we accepted. In general, should we put or work? [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't see any voices. [[General Discussion]] And the Communists don't vote. I see the Communists don't vote. Should I put it on? Let's work on that, and then in the second reading, let's take a look. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask. Do we have a member of the Deputies in the Hall and a member of the Stadniczuk? Is it? I'm asking you to come out here because there's an opposition saying that they've announced the morning of the MPs who came out of Fatherland. And they announce, they interview that the MPs didn't write, they didn't go out, they're part of the Fatherland. Then get out of here so they can see you. Please, Vitaly Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u183	No, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u184	Yes, Vitaly Alexander the Ingredient.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u185	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters of Ukraine! I'm a member of the Supreme Council of the Fatherland faction of the Ingredient Vitaly. I applied to leave this faction this morning, and I'll explain why. Because the events that happened yesterday, which were provocative and they were meant to lead to the split of the country, they provoked actions that might not have led to the consequences, let's say, not the heavy ones, but they could have led completely, and they were planned as those that could have led to quite other consequences. What's even worse is, unfortunately, I'm telling you right now, because I repeat, I don't take responsibility off of myself by organizing actions like, "Get up, Ukraine!"by organizing actions which, well, aim to raise the people of Ukraine. When the people rose up, and when the people did something, the young boys who did something there yesterday talked them out of it. I don't know who talked them into it, but I understand that goal. So we, we had to take responsibility, I had to take responsibility, my colleagues had to take responsibility. And to say that we didn't set them up for this kind of action, we're against this kind of action, but we don't take responsibility off our hands. Otherwise, we provoke people in action, "Get up, Ukraine!'we leave them the moment they do something wrong. It was a mistake, and I think it's wrong. When military training is conducted, there are sacrifices, and the leaders should be responsible for these trainings. I definitely don't want the country to be divided into parts, me, on the other hand. [[Applause]] I, on the other hand, am sorry, but I do not share what is now happening in this room. I think that if we can't consolidate Parliament, the street will do it for us. I'm against what's happening right now in the Supreme Council Hall, and there's a meeting going on. I ask all of you to find a common language, to find an opportunity to sit down with the leaders of all political forces, parties and factions, to sit down at the negotiating table and start, to go back to work in the session room, where we should work. Because I was against it, and now I'm against what's going on in this room, and I made another statement at 11:45 that I'm calling off that morning. But as soon as it starts, well, in my opinion, normal work in the Supreme Council, in the Hall, I'm going to write a statement saying that I'm coming out of the Fatherland faction. So far, I'm still a member, but I'm going to get out of it and become a non-fractional, because I don't want to be on either side. I'm an industrialist, I've come to the Supreme Council to make laws that will bring the country out of the crisis that will allow us to move forward. I emphasize once again, I've made my decision -- and I'm out of the Fatherland faction, but I'll do it when we get back to work in that room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Roman Vasilovich Stadniychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u187	Good afternoon! For the avoidance of all contradictions, I confirm my exit from the Fatherland faction, because during my practical activities, I acted in favour of my subordinates, as well as Ukrainian citizens, so I want to continue this work, and by taking on political commitments, I want to do them. And to that end, he made a decision to get out of the Fatherland faction. I support my colleague fully, I want to work constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u188	Thank you. The draft Law 1154 is being considered: the characteristics of the rehabilitation bank. First Deputy Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky reports. How will we consider the question? Please vote. Who is in favour of shortening the discussion, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? This is a decision that has been made. 232 votes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u189	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, the adoption of the bill is based on the need to clear state-sector banks of problematic assets on the basis of their transfer to the Sanitation Bank, which was established in 2011 on the basis of the State-capitalised Association of Shareholders, Rodovid Bank, by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. And also to ensure that funds are channelled from working with such assets to the state budget. The draft law provides for a free transfer of assets at a cost-effective cost by withdrawing the bank's right of claim, under the liabilities of debtors or securities, which, according to the national bank's legal acts, is deemed hopeless. The provision of work by a rehabilitation bank with such assets has been received from public sector banks and the channelling of revenue received to the public budget. Carrying out a separate calculation of transactions involving retained assets, including expenses related to the implementation of them within the cost of the funds approved by the board of directors of the Sanitation Bank in agreement with Minfin. Considering that the funds received by the Sanitation Bank as a result of dealing with assets should be directed towards the State budget, with a view to preventing their reduction, the Sanitation Bank is exempt from payments for services provided by the public authorities and the judiciary and the State's duty to deal with such assets. The draft act does not require additional public budget expenditure and its financial model foresees the possibility for the State to compensate part of the expenditure incurred during the crisis due to their capitalization. The committee has considered the bill accordingly and proposes to accept it as a basis. We support that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u190	Sit down, thank you. The report is headed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, Alexander Mikolayovich Rizhankov. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Committee on 5 March 2013, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Sanitation Bank Activities, registration number 1154, dated 24 December 2012, aimed at resolving the transfer of problematic assets to the Sanitary Bank of State-sector banks and ensuring the proper functioning of the "Brodod Bank" as a sanatorium bank established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was discussed. At the committee’s meeting, the bill sparked a lively discussion of the committee members, resulting in a series of valid suggestions and comments. I will point out that the introduction of the law should contribute to the stability of the public banking sector's activities by improving the quality of assets and increasing the investment attractiveness of banks that have been invested by the State, including with a view to returning funds spent by the State. banks to the state budget. As a result, the committee decided to support the bill in its first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u192	Do you want to talk about it? None. I'm betting on a bill of 1154: on the characteristics of the rehabilitation bank's activities as a basis. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. Who held up? None. 232-yes. Decision taken. There'll be a break soon, we'll work more. Let's get this over with. The draft Law 2476 is being considered: amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for State Guarantees). How will we view it? I ask you to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Please put it down. Who held up? None. First Deputy Minister Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed a bill amending article 6 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year. The need for its adoption is due to the creation of an effective mechanism for involving funds under state guarantees and the implementation of Ukraine's development projects. The State Budget Bill provides for the provision of guarantees in 2013 following the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular under the obligations of the “Staff” and to ensure the implementation of the commitments of the chief budget administrators arising from the provision of funds for the implementation of the capital expenditure beyond the amount of the established budgetary allocations. Part five of article 17 of the Code of Budgets establishes the need for the provision of property or other security for the fulfilment of obligations and the payment of public budget fees for the granting of State guarantees, unless otherwise provided by the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. This is the "other" we now have to settle when we make changes to the 2013 Budget Act. Since Autotodora and the principal fund manager are public authorities and are solely state-owned, and the source of the public guarantee payment should be an appropriate budgetary assignment, it is appropriate to exempt the designated authorities from the obligation to provide public security and to pay public budget fees for the granting of State guarantees. Addressing these issues will allow new mechanisms to be put in place by the chief budget administrators of the capital expenditure over the amount of the established budgetary allocations. The draft Law provides for amendments to article 6 of the State Budget Act to complement the direction given by the Cabinet of State Guarantees under the obligations of the Pat "Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development" with the aim of further channelling funds towards self-sustainment of self-sustainment projects. The release of Kravutodore and the chief budget administrators by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers from the obligation to give the State property or other collateral and to pay to the State Budget for the payment of State guarantees. Controlling the use and timely return of the funds borrowed will be done on the basis of an agreement to repay the State’s debt for the fulfilment of the guarantee obligations that will be made to grant the State to Minfin and the borrower. The bill also complements the rule on the establishment by the Cabinet of State guarantees for the provision of budgetary resources to the Chief Budget Manager, since, in accordance with the Budget Code, State guarantees are given to the Cabinet of Ministers in person of the Minister of Finance. The government's proposal is to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u194	Thank you. A report from the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Eugene Borisovich Geller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u195	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues will consider a bill amending Article 6 of the State Budget 2013 Act, number 2476, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Taking into account the above-mentioned decision of the First Deputy Minister of Finance and the committee’s discussion, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following: recommending Bill 2476 to the Supreme Council to consider in the first reading and to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u196	I am voting on draft Law 2476: amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on State guarantees for acceptance as a basis and. I see there's been a request for a foundation. Please vote. Please put it down. Is there a problem? I won't. Are you held up? I won't. 231. The law is passed on the basis, so the government will work. The draft Law, 2405, on amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate Objects, has been under consideration since 26.02.2013. Social Policy Minister Viacheslav Mikolayovich Kolomiec will report. There's an offer: look at the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please hang up. Do you mind? Is there a hold-up? None. 231-yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Since the beginning of this year, housing taxes have been introduced. According to article 265 of the Tax Code, such a tax is not paid from the buildings of family - type children’s homes, housing, but not more than one such facility for a family belonging to many families and foster families with three or more children. At the same time, the Tax Code does not provide for such assistance to families of caregivers and caregivers of children, orphans, children, deprived of parental care and those of their number who are, in our view, socially unjust. With a view to eliminating this injustice, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to you a draft law amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Housing Property, which provides that families of child caregivers and caregivers, orphans, children deprived of parental care, and persons in number will not pay taxes on housing, but not more than one object. The adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to improve the social protection of caregivers, caregivers and children's categories. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u198	Thank you. A report by the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! The rapporteur had already been told about the substance of the bill. The committee supports the initiative to provide real estate tax benefits for the appropriate category of people — those with three or more children. And housing objects belonging to orphans and children deprived of parental care. At the same time, we planned to take a closer look at the second reading, perhaps more widely, and consider also the possibility of commissioning people who are entitled to benefit from this tax and other socially vulnerable categories of citizens. Like disabled people, single mothers, disabled children, and others. At the same time, there are suggestions from our colleague of the national deputy Gordijenko (legislative 2292), who also suggests a broader view of the real estate tax and correct some of the issues that we see today. Because the tax was introduced on January 1, and there are certain issues that need to be corrected. Also on the second reading, we planned to add these proposals and to address this issue more in a more complex way, which relates to the real estate tax. Thank you. I mean, on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u200	People's deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! National Deputy of Ukraine Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, Company of Ukraine, Poltavščina. All I'm suggesting is that we support him. I was speaking on this issue on the Conciliation Council, and we still need to take into account the positions that in our bill of 2292, first of all, will be very serious problems with the register, and we need time for this register to be created in the state. So let's actually do that, and let's take this seriously, this is going to be the total area, or this is going to be the housing area and a lot of other things. So a proposal that will be supported by the faction of the Company of Ukraine to vote only on the basis and then take into account the position of Bill 2292 and a number of proposals there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u202	Please, National Deputy, present yourself for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u203	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! I propose to support Gordienko's proposal and to add to this issue, we have a problem with monasteries today. Part of the accommodations, part of the apartments where the monasteries are located, are accommodations from which taxes are to be paid. Therefore, accept as a basis and second reading work with all nuances and complements of colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u204	Wait a minute. Please. National MP, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, today there is a taxable property that belongs, for example, to children with disabilities who are raised by single mothers. When this bill is being finalized, consider this so that on the second reading and in general this gap is taken into account. So I propose to vote in favour of this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u206	Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law of 2405 amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate Objects. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. Who held up? None. 232-yes. Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law 1184 is under consideration: the approval of the National Social Programme for the Improvement of Safety, Health and Productive Environment for 2014-2018. Reported the first deputy head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service, Shaitan Viktor Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u207	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u208	That's right. Who is responsible for discussing the matter in a simplified manner? Please vote. Please put it down. Is there a "against"? "Restraint" is it? None. Decision taken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u209	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The need for the adoption of the National Social Programme for the Improvement of Safety, Health and Productive Environment is determined both by domestic legislation and by Ukraine’s commitment to ratified international conventions. The programme is designed to implement articles 4, 19, 32 and 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act and the 2010-2012 General Agreement Action Plan. The purpose of the bill is to solve complex problems in the field of occupational protection, to create a modern, safe and healthy manufacturing environment, to minimize the risks of industrial trauma, occupational diseases, and industrial accidents. Which will contribute to continued economic development and social orientation. The programme aims to improve the efficiency of the labour management system, the application of innovative technologies in the field of labour protection and industrial security, the improvement of the culture of safety of work, the improvement of the public oversight system and public monitoring of compliance with labour protection and industrial safety requirements. The program will provide social and economic protection for working citizens of Ukraine. As a result, the program should expect the preservation of the country’s health and employment potential, the reduction of social, economic losses from the negative effects on production, and the steady growth of the national economy. The main task is to reduce the injury of workers working in production. Given the relevance of the bill, please accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u210	Sit down, thank you. The report is chaired by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please, two minutes, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Cibenko I'll be as short as I can. For the first time in many years, such a program is a national program. My predecessors, members of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of previous appeals have repeatedly called on the government to prepare and submit such a program for approval by the Supreme Council. It's ready. The committee considered it and supported the proposal to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u212	I'm voting on the draft Law (1184) on the approval of the National Social Programme for the Improvement of Safety, Occupational Health and Productive Environment for 2014-2018 for adoption as a basis. Please vote. Based on the base. Please put it down. Against? Are you held up? On the basis of how much?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u213	Can we put it all together? I am voting on the draft Law (1184) on the approval of a social programme to improve safety, work hygiene and the production environment for 2014-2018 for adoption as a whole as a law. Please vote. Please put it down. Is there a problem? None. You holding up? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u214	So he forgot to drop. 230-yes. In unison. 230-yes. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, government law 2144 is under consideration. On the grounds, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u215	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, we have considered and voted on Bill 2476 on first reading. This is a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2013". The MPs are still working here in the hall, and now they're proposing, saying, "So there's no comment, maybe we'll come back and vote it out in general?"
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u216	There is an offer to go back to the subject. Is there any objection? Please vote back. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? None. Let's go back to draft Law 2476. Introducing a proposal, the communists agreed, we did not then vote to adopt this law 2476: the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on State Guarantees. For adoption as a whole. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? I can't see. Who held up? None. 230. Law 2476 was passed in general. The draft Law 2144 is under consideration: amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise (on personnel security). There is a proposal to consider the discussion on a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? None. Decision taken. The first deputy minister of justice, Ivana Ivanovna, is given the word for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill submitted for your consideration is designed to bring the Law on Judicial Expertise into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption. And for this project, it is proposed that, in part three of article 21 of the Law on Judicial Expertise, the provision that persons who have received the qualifications of a judicial expert and who have a scientific degree be released from their internship once every three years, according to their specialty in state specialized institutions, to confirm the level of their professional knowledge. In connection with this draft law, it is envisaged that professionals who are not employees of state specialized institutions and have been qualified by a judicial expert irrespective of their scientific level, that they should be trained once every three years in state specialized judicial institutions of the Ministry of Justice, according to their speciality, and that they should be able to confirm their professional knowledge and qualifications. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u218	Thank you. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice discussed the proposed draft government law. And we believe that if it's adopted, it'll be the only one. Is it bad to hear? [[B in m in s a l in]] We suggest that we support the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u220	I don't see anyone who wants to speak. I'm voting on draft Act 2144: amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise (on personnel security) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? I'll take that as a base. For 235. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft Law 2102: amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care (on budgetary financing) is under consideration. Reported by Bachevi Tetjana Dmitrovna, head of the Health Committee, two minutes. Aunt Dmitrovna, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u221	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 2102 provides in part one of the first articles of the Act for the word "budgets of the districts, the city of Kiev and Sevastopol" to be replaced by the words "district budgets, budgets of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol". In essence, this is the introduction of the stated law to the practice of applying the terminology of the Ukrainian Code of Budgets and is only a legal formality. The committee considered the bill, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council on the basis of the outcome of the first reading. According to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the 2102 bill that we are currently considering can also be adopted in the first reading and on the basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u222	Thank you. There is a suggestion to discuss the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? None. There are no speakers. I am voting on the draft Law 2102 amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care (on budgetary financing). To be accepted as a basis. Please put it down. Against? None. You holding up? None. For -236. Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law 2655 (Deputy Member) is under consideration: amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for creating favourable conditions for the development of the agri-industrial lending system). Project of the People’s Deputy Lukyanov Please, reporter, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u223	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! Short-term. Vladimir Vasilevich, summary procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u224	An offer is made to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? Roger that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u225	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, you are invited to consider draft Law 2655. The draft law amending the State budget for 2013 provides for an increase in the expenditure of Ukraine's general and special state budget fund for 2013, amounting to 307 million 645,000 bracelets. Among them, 254 million dollars from the State budget of Ukraine under the land reform programme, code 2803030. For the purpose of filling the statutory capital of the Land Bank in 2013 with agricultural land of government property. For these funds, an inventory of 1 million hectares of public land is planned. This is about 80,000 sites that need inventory and documentation. It is also envisaged that 52 million bracelets will be sent to land for rural extradition. We were all with you, especially the Majorists, and we felt the severity of the problem when we talked to the voters. And by fulfilling the commitments that will be issued to peasants, I propose that the bill be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u226	The report, please, heads of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u227	Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies, Budget Committee at its meeting on 3 April, reviewed the draft Act amending the Act on State Budget 2013 under registration number 2655. The bill provides for an increase of 307.6 million dollars in government budget expenditure to the State Agency for Land Resources. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. The committee proposes to support the bill on condition. recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act, submitted by the Ukrainian People's MP Lukyanov, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account such changes: paragraph 3 of chapter 1 of the First Bill, in article 15, replace the words “in sum” with the words “at least as” and the figures “16 billion” with the figures “16 billion 254 million 800 dollars”. In the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts the bill, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, at the time of the signing of the bill by the Head of the Supreme Council, is required to provide the necessary editorial and technical clarifications relating to the adoption by the Committee of Decisions to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u228	Are there speakers? On this point? Please. I'm voting on draft Law 2655: amending the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2013" to create favourable conditions for the development of an agro-industry lending system. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? There's no such thing. You holding up? For 230. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three laws in the second reading -- and we're going to sum it up. A second reading (registration number 0884) of the National Procurement Act (registration number 0884) is being considered. Please, from the committee, National Deputy Kaltz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u229	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Deputies! As I understand it, the bill does not propose changes and innovations, it only reveals the content of the concept of a material and technical base as a criterion to be met by a certain bidder. So a variety of material and technical bases can be considered their own capacities and service centers of the bidder. I agree that the more we give definite signs to certain criteria, the more we specify, the harder it will be to abuse this law. In doing so, Ukraine’s laws do not have terms such as “power”, not in terms of size, but in terms of service centres. Perhaps it would be better to submit simultaneously bills to amend the relevant economic or civil legislation that would reveal the essence of these concepts and give them substantial signs that right-holders would not be able to interpret the law as they would like. Or, if it's not possible to do that at the same time, make a note to work on legislation -- and still define in special laws the notions that are now included in the Public Procurement Act. But I propose to vote in favour of this law in the first reading, in the second reading, and in general. Thank you. In the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u230	Thank you. We have one amendment -- the People's Deputy, it's rejected by the committee. Nobody insists? No, it's not. So I'm putting a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement (as regards changing competitive terms) for adoption in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? None. Who held up? None. One's holding up. 231-yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Against it, 1 / 1 There are no restraints. The law is passed in general. A second reading of the draft Law 0974, a government draft of the Act amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the exemption from taxation of imported goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as part of the implementation of projects (programmes) on the basis of international technical assistance provided in accordance with valid international agreements, the initiative of the countries of the Great Eight "Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction". Please, Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u231	Thank you. Colleagues, this law was passed in the last vocation on October 2, 2012. Given that the Council was practically out of work, it was not possible to consider it in a second reading. A second reading of five suggestions took place, all taken into account. So there is a general offer to accept it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u232	I would like to vote on the draft Law 0974: amending and supplementing section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the exemption from taxation of imported goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as part of the implementation of projects (programmes) on the basis of international technical assistance provided in accordance with valid international agreements, the initiative of the countries of the Great Eight "Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction". For adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please put it down. Against whom? You holding up? The law is passed. 229 deputies. In the second reading and in general. The draft Act, number 2655, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] 0917. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on voluntary payment of a single contribution is under consideration. Second reading. Who will report from the committee? The committee shall make a proposal to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-04-m0.u233	Now let me see, are all the corrections taken into account? One amendment of the Magnificent is rejected. Nobody insists? Don't insist, fine. There are no other amendments. I therefore put to the vote draft Law 0917: amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning voluntary payment of a single contribution, for adoption in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? Who held up? None. Hold on. For 232 and 3, they held on. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that we have pointed out have been considered. So today's session I declare closed. Tomorrow morning's meeting will be at ten o'clock in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
