ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Please calm down, sit down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, please. [[10:00:05]] A total of 368 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Igor Mikhailovich Sabia. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, statements, messages, and so I ask the members of the people to sign up. Here comes the recording. The word is given to the national deputy, Illenko. Osuhovsky passed it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u2	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215 constituency, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! I'd like to go back to, unfortunately, the old and painful subject today. The situation in Kiev Because Parliament has already begun to work. And we are obliged to evaluate what is happening today in the capital city of Ukraine with the complete destruction of local self - government that took place in Kiev. With the complete usurpation of power that took place in the capital. And today's situation, of course, is just a scream. Because on the one hand today there are stories from the high rostrums about European integration and European values. But it's hard to imagine that in the capital of a great European state there is simply no right of people to choose power. No city head, no city council, no district council. In general, any rights of the community are completely destroyed. Today, in Kiev, that is the situation. And we understand that this is nothing more than a direct and outright bandit occupation. And we saw the ugly face of this occupation on August 19th of this year. When the Kiev City Council was surrounded by not only the Berkut Special Forces, who were exposed against their own citizens, but also by a ring of bandits, as they are now called in the people, "the aunts." Literally hundreds were transported and exhibited around the Kiev City Council so as not to miss anyone except the deputies of the ruling party and representatives of the so - called majority in the so - called Kyivrada, which has long been illegal. The result was the beating of ordinary rallyers, the beating of national MPs. In particular, the National Deputy Edward Leonov, who underwent surgery yesterday, was actually injured because he suffered an exacerbation of his illness. We realize that those who are struggling with this occupation today are under severe repressive pressure. It's not the aunts today that are judging, but today they're judging the freebies, the patriots who protect the community from the bandits. Today, it is not the usurpers of pseudokyevre, nor the deputies of the Supreme Council who were covering for them, who are now judging those ordinary activists who wanted to stop the usurpation of power. We understand very well that the vast majority, it is set not to go back to the question of Kiev. She thinks that the Kiev issue has already been removed for them, and of course they do not want to make any elections in Kiev. But the Chinese have repeatedly shown in their time how they can organize themselves, how they can get out and how they can get out on the street, and how they can make themselves respect and hear themselves. That was in 2004, and that was before. I'm sure that's true this time, because no one will tolerate the bandit occupation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you, this is the higher legislature of the state, pick your words, don't insult each other. In this room, all the levels of the right. And at this table, and in the hall. Please, you're not at the rally. Criticize, but criticize, select words. I'm asking the representative of the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Mochkov. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u4	Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction, 97 major constituency, Kyiv district. Last night we heard the President for the first time in a long time. And it was really nice to hear him speak, and he's got good pitchers. We have all heard of Ukraine’s European aspirations, as we wish. And this is the strange case where the aspirations of the people of Ukraine coincided with the aspirations of big business. The people, on the one hand, want to live with other standards, both in the legal field and other economic mothers; big business, oligarchs, they want access to Western markets, to the biggest market, to the European Union market. And they don't want, I'm sorry, to the Customs Union, where they're just a small spoil for Russia's big oligarchs. But what's happening in reality. Here we were yesterday, the strike faction, addressing the labour force and management company Mechanical Plant, the city of Herson. This is one of two companies whose production, the aluminum alloys, is secondaryly certified in the London Metal Exchange. The company has been operating for 14 years, 600 employees for 35 million taxes to different levels of the budget. But in 14 years of contracts with Mitsubishi, Toyota, Skoda and other leaders of the world's auto-production, one of them was the deputy head of the HKB in the Hersonian region who ordered the company to stop exporting. I mean, there's been an expert profit, 600 people out of work, and there's some sort of premeditated reason why a product could be a double assignment, a chemistry, not one, all the experts show that the product is normal, and it's not. You know, there's a difference between words and action. Of course, there will be references to the Henprosecutor's Office about this case, in the SBA. But we want to see realities that will be real actions and answers, not words. Because one thing is to make a statement about European aspirations, and the other thing is to do something real. And you have to realize that it's going to have to live, I'm sorry, it's not in terms, not because I want the hot one where the law went down, it's going to be, it's going to have to live by the rules of certain ones that are prescribed. Here's the situation. I understand she's not alone, she's just one of the cases in this country. I want the word and the work of executive power to match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u5	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Yegorov, handed the word to Anatolia Kinach to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, before the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the nation as a whole has become very seriously responsible as socio-economic and political challenges and tasks. This is primarily the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union, the low principle of important strategic measures to adapt the Ukrainian economy to the conditions of free trade with the European Union, the minimization of the consequences of resistance at the customs border of the Russian Federation and the decline in the pace of development of both the European and the world economy. In 2013, despite the above-mentioned difficult conditions, the current year remains in the context of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine. There is a positive price stability and exchange rate policy. It is essential that today, despite difficulties, the reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine provide three months of net imports that meet international standards. Ukraine's government debt in terms of GDP is 36 percent, which is one of the lowest, I would stress, indicators in Europe. Thanks to God, nature, and the hard work of the peasants, Ukraine today has a chance to collect a record in the last 20 years. On the basis of the foregoing, that is even more so, we are sure, it would strengthen both our civic and political responsibilities. And it is necessary to do very difficult tasks, starting with the 2013 government budget balance, on this basis the timely adoption of the 2014 quality budget. What matters most is the fruitful work and cooperation of the government and the Supreme Council on the acute issues that Ukrainian manufacturers, industrialists, and entrepreneurs have. This is, first of all, a solution to the problem of access to credit resources gradually. Reducing the burden on the Paying Fund to increase the competitiveness of our products. The very principle needs to be addressed and action must be taken to prevent further increases in the pressure of law enforcement agencies on small (medium) business. Based on the above and the fact that Ukraine is inseparably integrated into the economic and political European world system, which creates a higher level of competition, it is necessary, together, to protect national economic and political interests throughout the perimeter as the basis for the decent positions of our state in the world, to which we urge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u7	The post-faction representative is the national deputy of Jeremeyev. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u8	Dear Head, please give the floor to national deputy Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u9	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u10	Dear Head, dear colleagues! It is evident that the era when Ukraine practiced the principle of equal proximity in foreign policy toward the European Union and Russia was over. The question of signing an Association Agreement and a Deeper Free Trade Zone is actually a perfect fact, it should be seen as a given, it is no longer just a decision by the Ukrainian side. Instead, the predominant trend in our politics continues to be driven by the spell of European choice, the need to make a series of decisions about the population and the finality of which it cannot say. I don't think there's any point in talking about Ukraine at the Vilnius Summit anymore, we need to talk about Ukraine, the opportunities, the challenges and the risks after signing the respective agreements, and we need to build a clear, responsible policy. From the position of head of the National Security and Defence Committee, I believe it is necessary to draw your attention, colleagues, to a security issue. It will inevitably become virtually all - out, from information to defence. How much will Ukraine’s out - of - doors account for? Will the Budapest Memorandum work, as it is now? In fact, it doesn't work. What measures should be taken to maintain the stability and integrity of Ukrainian society? What should be the response that the safety nets for possible centrifugal trends, inevitable and inspired outwards should be? How can we avoid the inevitable economic situation, the final degradation of the military-industrial complex? In order to do so, claims about Ukraine’s civilizational choice are apparently not enough. And what is particularly important is how far will Russia go in the stated policy on Ukraine? To help me remember, there are almost 700 agreements between our countries today, from an interstate level to a regional level. It is hard to imagine the consequences when such countries enter the conflict line until the visa regime. Dear colleagues, I can see that we underestimate situations, we are engaged in some kind of political gambling. Will he remain after Vilnius? The important thing is, will such constitutional unity be preserved when a very difficult work is needed? So I think a special meeting of the Supreme Council is needed to open up the whole of Ukraine on the subject of "Ukraine after the signing of the Association Agreement." We need to make sure that decisions that are planned for the summit become decisions of the Ukrainian people and become decisions of Ukraine. Only the consolidated position of the people and the politicians will produce the desired result. This is a matter of choice, as in 1991 and the responsibility of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u12	Key. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u13	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik. The black man gave his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u14	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Glory to Ukraine! The Society, in its speech yesterday, the head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Oleg Tuggnibok, stressed that it was from the Russian Federation, and this is important in the context of the signing of the Euro-Association Agreement, war, humanitarian war, religious war. But we have forgotten that the Russian Federation has recently gone to a physical war, which we have to talk about today, and what the authorities and parliament should be doing today. Let me just remind you of the fact. On July 17, this year, about 18 hours in the Azov Sea, there was a so - called collision of the Ukrainian fishing barge and the coast guard boat of the Russian Federation’s overseas service. The fishermen were killed and only one remained alive in Alexander Fedorovich. On July 22, the Russian Federation’s Investigative Committee for the Southern Military Region began its investigation of a criminal case involving a violation of the rules of shipping. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice sent several documents that actually made a good mine at a bad game. But what should we be talking about today, society? On July 28, a video appeared that one ship’s expert commented in this way, the border guards violated everything, acted as border guards, but acted as pirates, silently, without commands, without declaring who they were. After they had cleared the fishing pond, they made a huge arc, came up, saw that there was a living man. And here they were doing what they were supposed to do, save the man by the board, they were doing it like pirates. Russia’s foreign service, which transferred this to the investigative office, has done its utmost to keep this incident hidden today. What does the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union do? Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we are taking care of the Consulate General and the Embassy of the Russian Federation throughout Ukraine, requiring the Russian Federation to return the Ukrainian fisherman Alexander Fedorovich to Ukraine and investigate this incident in Ukraine. And what should the Party of Regions do with its protection to Donbas? I am convinced that the Mayors of Mariupol and the Novoazov region should have been in the Russian Federation and should have actually taken the Ukrainian fisherman out of the Russian captivity. For today, what is done in relation to Ukrainian fishermen is simply the destruction of the Ukrainian people, the destruction of Ukraine, and the demonstration of a military threat. This is a distinct reminder to those who today speak of the Customs Union. We are convinced that it is a matter for each of us to protect each individual citizen of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u15	Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, the national deputy of the Jury, delivered the word to the national deputy Zubczewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! There is a great deal of emphasis on the development of the Ukrainian language in Parliament: parliamentary hearings are constantly being initiated and relevant State programmes are being adopted. However, it has to be noted that from one extreme we are moving to another, it is a total disregard for the development of the Russian language in Ukraine, especially in the field of education. A third of the inhabitants of the country consider the Russian language to be their native language; for most citizens, it is the language of everyday communication. All the inhabitants of our country understand and can speak in Russian, except for only one person. I recall that article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the free development of the Russian language. However, policies in the education system, both by the orange authorities and by the current system, have led to a rapid narrowing of education in the Russian language. The organizers of a worldwide offensive to Russian were not given the development of Ukrainian language at the expense of Russian but rather the lack of literacy of students and students. It is not uncommon for a child who speaks Russian in the family and in the everyday life of the Russian language to study or not study the language in school. Often, children are unable to write in English or in Russian. This may have been the result of those who are not interested in the effective education of our children, who want to blind easily managed mammals in the future. We are witnessing violent Ukrainianization. What else can be said of the fact that more than 80 per cent of Ukrainian schools have no Russian language in any form. The initiative of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine to study the second foreign language in all schools and to discuss that Russian will become the language has proved to be real. Only 23 per cent of schools with Ukrainian language of education chose foreign Russian and 53 per cent chose German. According to the head of the Ukrainian Association of Teachers of Russian Language and Literature, Ludmila Kudravtsevka, the reason is simple: the English teacher is usually the graduates of the Romano-German department, where German is most frequently studied as a second language. The principals of the school simply went along with the least resistance: they had English teachers who also had German. That's what they choose as the second foreign German. And they don't have a Russian teacher, they've actually been destroyed as a class. The Communist faction requires the Cabinet and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to develop an integrated programme for the development of Russian language, the methodology for teaching Russian in schools, and the introduction of compulsory instruction in schools with Ukrainian language, Russian language and literature. There is a need to create a comfortable environment for children to learn languages without compromising their national interests. In proclaiming the idea of humanism in education, we must not only speak about it but also apply it in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u17	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Pazinjak. He gave the word to Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, on September 4, 1991, a blue and yellow flag was first raised above our premises. And I would very much like to think today that we're sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament, and we're thinking that the fate of Ukraine and Ukrainian independence is at stake today, as it was in 1991. Today, there is no discussion about the European Union and the Customs Union, today, whether Ukraine remains an independent state, or whether it loses its independence. I read folk wisdom here. People say, "what is the choice between the EU and the Customs Union?" It's like "choice between the university and the army": if you don't get in first, they'll take the second. So I wanted us not to go back to the army, because read our cousins, how they interpret the Customs Union and what place they see in it. Yesterday, the President of Russia, I quote in his language, said, "You know, whatever happens and wherever Ukraine goes, we're still going somewhere and we're going to meet somewhere, because we're one people. And how could what I said now not get angry with nationalists on both sides, but the nationalists are there. "and so on. Imagine the president of another state forbids us to be called a people and to have a state of our own. And in this situation, there are people in the Ukrainian Parliament who think they need to protect the interests of the neighbouring state and the interests of the President of the neighbouring state, not the President of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian state. Then create a separate faction and name it Vladimir Putin's faction "Russian Choice" and do not represent yourself as parties of Ukraine. Because not every faction in the Ukrainian Parliament can defend the interests of the neighbouring state. There is much to be said about brotherly peoples and brotherly nations. There are no fraternal peoples and fraternal nations, there are nations that protect national interests and states that are incapable of protecting national interests. Russia is a state capable of protecting national interests and Ukraine is, unfortunately, a state that is incapable of protecting national interests. Thus, we must unite in order for Ukraine to become such a state and not allow the disgrace that was experienced when 148 deputies protected the Polish people and now the Ukrainian Parliament’s deputies to protect the Russian people. Do we not have national dignity at the 22nd year of independence to protect our own Ukrainian state and Ukrainian people? I call on all the deputies: the debate not to translate into the plane of the Customs Union or the European Union, but into the plane of the protection of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian nation. For as Taras Shevchenko said, "I believe that in the near future a shameful hour will be forgotten and a good glory will be brought to life.".. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u19	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Jose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to address all those present in this room and citizens of Ukraine with sincere congratulations on the public holiday, which they celebrated just a few days ago – the beginning of the new school year, 1 September and the Knowledge Day. On 1 September 2013, 20,000 schools opened doors for 4 million students. These are our children, the students who sat down for the parties. And their future, like the future of Ukraine, depends today on the teacher. I want to remember in 1961 when American President John Kennedy said his famous phrase: "We lost space because we lost a school party, we lost a school teacher." As it happens, we have every child in Ukraine in school, so the teacher is the main person, and education is the strategic line of conduct of our State. It was no coincidence that President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine drew attention to the fact that the creation of a comfortable working environment for a teacher was the main task of the State and the authorities, and the confirmation of this was that four times during the last academic year, salaries had been raised for teachers. In just one year, teachers have increased their salary by 20 per cent. I wish to say that teachers express the hope that there will continue to be an increase in wages and a timely payment of all social payments to teachers. I am saying this now that the budget has not yet been adopted, and not in words but in fact in government, and we can show you how we care and how we help our teacher and our school. Dear friends! In terms of achievements, I cannot help but say that there were difficulties, because unfortunately there were cases at the beginning of the school year, when in some areas, such as Montenegro, there was no timely payment to teachers in Ukraine. Here I wish to address the local authorities and remind them of the extent to which they are responsible, as well as the representatives of local authorities. Of course, it will not prevent us and Bismarck from saying that the State's attitude towards a teacher is a public policy, and it demonstrates either the power of the State or the weakness of the State. There you go, dear friends! Let us demonstrate, by adopting the budget, the new budget, the power of the State. And let us all say together, recognize that the future of our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u21	Finish up. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u22	and formed not in government offices, but in school, behind the party. He's being molded by a teacher. So let's support our teacher, remembering that we can't lose a teacher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u23	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Ilyuk gave the floor to the national deputy of Goncharov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! People's deputies! I intend to emphasize the direction of the work that we should be working towards and the mistakes that we should not assume in the future. First of all, it's the organization of our Parliament's work, which unfortunately worked poorly. This has led to a deterioration of Parliament's authority on the part of the people of Ukraine and is unacceptable in a democratic and sovereign state that intends to join a European society. Our electorate should see concrete results in the polls in the constituencies, not destructive work. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies, especially the opposition's representatives, to work constructively, not to embarrass the country with their conduct and with the violation of the legislative process. All desires, disagreements, or personal thoughts should be expressed diplomatically and in accordance with the law. Second, it's the work of executive power. I would like to remind you that the implementation of all the laws adopted by the Supreme Council depends on those who work and gain material benefits for the country. They are miners, chemists, metallurgists, builders, agricultural workers, and others. And it's the interests of the economically active population of Ukrainians that create an internal gross product that is taken into account by our President's programme to create a competitive economy, a prosperous society and a successful state. This program is implemented by an active cabinet of ministers and has concrete results. It is thanks to the work of the President and the executive power that Ukraine is preparing to join the EU. That is why I consider the faithful proposal in Parliament's work to be a consolidated cooperation with executive power for the development of the domestic economy and the realization of integration desires. And third. Recently, the country celebrated the miner’s Day. And it was marked, as it was accepted in mining teams, by work achievements. Moreover, I am grateful that the throat miner Alexander Mokrinski is assigned the name Hero of Ukraine. I believe that such events and awards are needed by ordinary workers in modern society. Thanks to such actions, our miners realize that their work is highly appreciated by the state. And I call on Parliament to focus its work on drafting and supporting bills that will ensure that mines and businesses are preserved, that social guarantees are raised, that workers are paid and that industry is developed in general. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u26	In doing so, I appeal to individual deputies from the opposition. I'm tired of fooling my own country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. And I'd like your attention, Your Honor. Yesterday at a meeting with the leaders of the MP factions, an offer was made and supported to work today until 12 o'clock in plenary mode. Until 12 o'clock. Next, the National Deputies continue to work on drafting drafts on the Committees of the Supreme Council. And I'm asking the committee heads to organize work today on the 13th-hour committees and look at the laws that we're going to consider here tomorrow in the session hall, because there are many different meetings there after 16th, 17th-hour factions, and I'm asking you to organize a committee job at 1:00. This one - time deviation from the duration of the plenary session is provided for in part five of article 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking the people's deputies to support this proposal and asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote, so I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Dear people's deputies in the corner, I ask you to take your seats. Come into the hall, sit in your seats and vote. I'll put this motion to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:35:19]] For 292 Against - 2, held - 0, unvoted - 96. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? At 12 o'clock, we will hold a meeting on these issues in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, the faction leaders, I ask you to come in and visit the committee leaders: Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, Zvania David Vazajevich, Kožemykin Andrija Anatoliyovich, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich and Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovic. At 12 o'clock we meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Let's get back to work. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is with the deputies. So let's move on to their consideration. The question is being considered. May I have a moment, People's Deputy Pinzenic?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, we do not have a confirmed list of questions for this session. And in order to address the issues that are being proposed to us today, we need to vote for the approval to address the issues at today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Viktor Mikhailovich! I want to remind you, because we didn't accept the order of the session, the third session, at the Conciliation Council. So we agreed that we would work on the schedule of meetings approved by the Conciliation Board of Deputies on Monday. It was given to you before the opening of the morning plenary meeting in accordance with part two of article 24 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's say we keep working. Now for every day. The draft Law (No. 1043) on the introduction of a moratorium on forced housing is under consideration. How do we view it? Would you like a shorter procedure? Please vote. [[10:38:27]] For a hundred and Against 75, held-8, not a 157 vote. Decision taken. The factions. I'm asking for a report from the Ukrainian national deputy Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. And then there'll be a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Company's faction introduces this bill, based on the fact that we constantly have people today who are not satisfied with the sharp and low levels of wages, the constant rise in prices, the rise in tariffs, by the way, across Ukraine, starting in the fall of this, the demands of the International Monetary Fund to increase gas prices. They are not supported by citizens who are required by law to finance their social issues, such as children of war and much more. Next. The high cost of housing is like a stalemate for a young family and the housing is not available. The rising unemployment rate. All of this has led to a population debt of about 12 billion dollars today, a debt of about 2 billion, a debt of over 1 billion dollars. So the purpose of this bill is to introduce a moratorium on forced housing by 1 January 2015. I'd like to draw your attention, my dear colleagues, to the fact that since the beginning of this year, 497 apartments and 279 cars have been arrested in Lviv. I mean, you can see how this all goes up. Next. At a meeting in the town of Zaporozhye Mayor. gives the command to the head of the same utility to do everything in order to remove housing from those in debt to these offices. I'm calling everyone again today, ladies and gentlemen! The time has come for us today to take responsibility for what ways we will protect ourselves from the aberration of our present - day authority and the politics of our ordinary citizens. From what's happening today in the economy, in the banking sector and in the government at all. So the faction of the Company is now addressing you with this proposal, to enact this law, and to protect our citizens for a period of time before the crisis. The adoption of this law does not require changes to other laws, and all of this contributes to a normal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of the Committee on Construction and Housing and Regional Policy of Goncharov Sergio Vasilovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u32	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy at its meeting, discussed a draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on forced housing (No. 1043) by Ukrainian national deputies Simonenko, Kilinkarov, Mathvijev. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on forced housing is due to the availability of debt from salaries, other payments to the population and the disproportionate and unbalanced income of the main population, the prices of electrons and tariffs, housing and utility services. Today, the legislative base allows the removal of housing for debt. Therefore, the bill aims to introduce a moratorium on forced housing for a period of financial crisis, but not before 1 January 2015, before paying off the arrears of wages and other payments to the population. The bill is designed to strengthen the social protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population, including veterans of the Great Homeland War, pensioners, and disabled persons. The main scientific and expert office concludes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to go back to work to take into account the comments made and the suggestions made. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council concluded that article 2 of the bill did not comply with article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the obligation to enforce judicial decisions throughout Ukraine. Therefore, I propose in article 1 that we provide for the application of the moratorium when decisions are taken by the courts, not when decisions are made. The Committee on Social Policy and Work, in its conclusion, proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u33	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u34	adopt a draft Ukrainian law introducing a moratorium on forced housing. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. Please sign up. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of the Evening. Please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill is really relevant because it is proposed for the period until 1 January 2015 to introduce a moratorium on the enforcement of housing by the courts on the collection of debts for housing and utility services. A positive element of the bill is that it aims at strengthening the social protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population, ensuring the constitutional right of everyone to housing, and a sufficient standard of living for himself and his family. In the explanatory note, the bill explains the need for the adoption of the act by way of debt from salaries, scholarships for other public payments. At the same time, it is worth noting that there is no justification in the draft law for the link between the payment of salaries for other payments to the population and the moratorium on the enforcement of housing. Moreover, since judicial decisions are mandatory for execution throughout Ukraine, the draft law should provide for order and property that will result in judicial decisions that have been made by legal forces. I want to add that today there's no debt to pensioners and low-income people, and there's a debt to housing and utilities worth 12 billion dollars. So today we need to protect housing and utilities. The faction of the Party of the Regions offers such proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u37	Let me finish. What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u38	This bill is to be sent for further processing. Thank you for your forgiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u39	For the attention. The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Dorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u40	Please tell Bidevka to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u41	Vladimir Biedevka, Communist faction, Donetsk region. Unfortunately, the Donetsk region is one of the leaders in non-payment of wages. As of 1 August this year, more than 157 million debt, of which 108.4 million is owed to bankrupt or economically inactive enterprises. And practice shows that it is almost impossible for residents and voters to return the money. There are hundreds of applications in the prosecutor's office, there are hundreds of lawsuits in the courts, there are hundreds of positive decisions in the courts in these cases, and they never return that money to the people. At the same time, the population today is facing the most severe prescribing of the JCC structures, which today provide very poor quality services for the JCC. An example is the water canal. Today, there is a formalization of accounts of unwarranted populations that they are supposed to have a water canal. Only those who, after months of walking in these structures, seek to reduce or cancel that debt. I'm not saying that the list of services to be provided on a quarterly basis doesn't correspond at all to the cost of quarterly payments often in cities and not to what is being done there at all. So today, the communists specifically came out with this bill, with this initiative, saying that the worker must be protected, not as we are today, that there is a prescribing from the structures of the JCX, there is a prescribing from banking structures, that they can come to you at any time, seal your property, take your computer, take your TV, wipe your machine. At the same time, a simple, hardworking person is not protected at all. I therefore call upon all those who are not indifferent to the fate of a simple labourer to support and support the initiative of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u42	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Rosenko, handed the word to Sergey Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u43	Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! Way to go, Simonenko! I've done very well, I've studied the numbers. But I would like to remind you that today, not the 23rd meeting of the CPD, but today the 22nd anniversary of Ukraine's independence, and you have no moral right after the crimes you committed against the Ukrainian people, to talk about the pensioners and their problems, because you are the cause of these problems. In fact, 12 billion dollars are now to blame for Ukrainian citizens, another 2 billion for their quarterly payments. Moreover, it should be said that this is 70 percent of Ukrainian pensioners, disabled pensioners, mugged by Communists, those pensioners who now live on their pitiful pension and give 90 percent of their pitiful pension a day, an hour ago of the regime you chose, personally of Azarova. I would like to tell you that, among other things, Azarov is responsible to Ukrainians, Afghans, black people, billions of dollars, children of war, several billion dollars. And yet you are guilty with him, Mr. Simonenko, because you cut his umbilical cord when you chose him as Prime Minister. If it had not been for the political party of Communists, if you had not personally ordered your deputies to vote for it, we would not have had such a disgrace, there would have been no Prime Minister. I want to tell you that when you're trading with the regions, you're asking not for customs, you're asking the regionals to vote down the Retirement Reform Act, the abolition of the Tax Code, the abolition of everything that's destroying the Ukrainian state today, and that your manipulations with them will not vote in favour of this bill. And it could be supported, but it needs to be deeper, we need to make reform more serious, more systematic, more profound, so that pensioners are not able not to pay, but that pensioners have the pension that they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u44	I want to speak to Sergey Kaplin. I want to speak to you. Well, I, uh, I asked you not to insult each other in the morning, but I'm asking you very much. And you've said so much that now I'm going to give my word for half a day. May I have a word with Simonenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I ask you once again to support this bill, which is very important to many citizens of our Ukraine. And secondly, in response to some of the comments, I'd like to say about the following: after the 22nd meeting of the Company, we had our housing built, and the factories were built, the wages were rising, the population was growing, the number of young people was increasing. As soon as the 22nd anniversary of independence is observed, it is said that the population of Ukraine has been reduced by seven million, which is now being expelled from their homes. They run and ride around Europe to make some money to have, washing dishes and so forth. So I'd like to draw attention today, folks, to the fact that this is exactly the kind of talkative politicians that come out to this rostrum and the divinity that they're carrying, he doesn't understand what he's talking about, he's far from understanding real life, he's basically, let's say, the person who forgot that we have Ukraine here and Ukraine to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Let's get this over with. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u47	I would like to stress once again that today is the time to make a decision to support this bill in order to protect our citizens specifically. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u48	I think you're going to have the People's Deputy Kyle speaking now. Martinks. He will show you that you can criticize each other and not offend each other. I beg of you, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u49	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on forced housing for residential services.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u50	Do you hear me? Freedom supports what the Communist Party brings! That's right!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u51	I ask you not to comment. At the same time, we suggest that the draft law be drafted substantially before the second reading. From the experience of the former secretary of the city council of Ivano-Frankivsk, I can say that among the debtors of residential services, a significant proportion is made up of people with a significant level of wealth. These include officials, police officers, prosecutors, judges. Why do they not pay in time for the services they receive? Because they do not feel irreversibly responsible for such abuse. Then, there are frequent cases of conscientious payers and consumers who are unable to obtain adequate municipal services. That is why "Freedom" insists that these bills be exclusively directed to the protection of socially vulnerable groups of the population, not to a balance in spirit." and were not used by conscientious consumers with sufficient pay opportunities. With regard to Bill 1043, which proposes to impose a moratorium on the implementation of housing, restrictions on the size of housing should be imposed on one person who is not subject to enforcement. Debt for residential services is inseparably linked to the government's tariff policy in this area. Unfortunately, today this policy serves the interests of, not Ukrainian citizens, but of oligarchic groups, which, at both national and regional levels, have established control over businesses that provide housing services. So today the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support. But we think that this bill needs to be thoroughly worked out for the second reading. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u52	Learn! This is an example for the people’s deputies. Let's listen to the moment of the national deputy Lasha, and he's also very tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In fact, there is another category of citizens who are deprived of their homes. They are not just those who cannot pay for utilities on time because they are not paid. But there are four million families in Ukraine who have once borrowed four dollar bills. They bought a place. Today they can't pay back dollar loans at $8 a dollar. And people who paid off a lot of the rent today are taking away their housing because they can't pay off those loans. I want to point out that it was a criminal decision by the National Bank to grant permission to issue foreign exchange loans. The organizers of this crime sit in this Supreme Council and today appear to be great advocates of the people, sheep. And they're actually wolves in sheep's clothing. Let Jacinyuk and others come out and tell us why they gave permission to do so. And four million families today have been deprived of the possibility of returning these loans, have gone into debt and have no possibility of living in their homes. So I suggest you solve this problem too.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. I invite everyone to sit in the workplace. I'm voting on a bill (registration number 1043) to introduce a moratorium on forced housing. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[10:58:12]] For-147 Against – 1, held – 37, did not vote – 193. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. There are factions. There's a second offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I read in factions. Region Party 15, Parentage Party 58, Vitalia Klicka Hit 3, Freedom 28, Company 32, non-fractional 11. There is a proposal for Bill 1043 to return to the committee for further work. Is that how it's supposed to be? Is that what you wanted? Okay. I'm willing to put the bill back on the committee. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:59:31]] For 303 Against 0, holding – 7, not voting – 75. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 148, Fatherland – 58, Vitalia Klicka – 23, Freedom – 29, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 13. The draft Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for debts from residential services is being considered. How do we view it? Please vote on who supports the reduced procedure. [[11:00:27]] For-151 Against 75, held – 4, not voted – 158. Decision taken. The factions. The Party of Regions is 143, Fatherland, Vitaly Klicka and Freedom, and the Company of Ukraine, Fatherland is 3, Vitaly Klicka is 0, Freedom is 0, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 5. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, to draft this bill has prompted me to see the events that I was in the world. In fact, it was in the city of Donetsk and there was a corresponding television story. Then the executive came home to an 80-year-old grandmother who lived in a one-bedroom apartment and all she had was an old radio, a black-and-white TV, violin furniture made in the '60s, all this executive service described and threatened to evict this grandmother. It was her fault that she owed the utility fee. She did not receive the grant because she was already heavily indebted and was not subject to the restructuring of those debts. Honorary colleagues, the subsidy mechanism often works because the procedure for obtaining subsidies is very complicated, and there is a system where a grant cannot be granted to a person with public service debts leads to the fact that the poor simply increase their debts without being able to account for them or receive State assistance. There have already been cases where the executive service has described property, including apartments for public services. Thousands of people were threatened with evictions, including disabled persons, pensioners, and many young mothers. The bill proposes to impose a moratorium on the repayment of debts for utility services by describing the debtor’s assets. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill will only affect the poor. Those who have large deposits or large total family income are not subject to the moratorium. This bill is aimed at the social protection of poor citizens, for whom a small apartment is the only place to live, and their old TV is the only window in the world. Dear friends, there is a note. But to the other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u56	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u57	For the second reading, we are ready to take these observations into account and set specific timelines for the moratorium and settle some other procedural issues. Everyone please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u58	Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee's subcommittee on Construction and Urbanization of Housing and Utilities, Sergio Vasilovich Goncharov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u59	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Construction and Construction of Housing and Regional Policy, discussed a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for residential and utility debts, submitted by Pavlovski National Deputies, Odarchenk, Brigincz, Andriyevski. According to the draft law, it makes it impossible for citizens to lose the property they need for their normal existence as a result of the forced enforcement of court decisions on the collection of housing and utility debt, and the project proposes to introduce a moratorium on such implementation. The main scientific and expert management concludes that it is appropriate to return the draft to the authors for further work because of a number of substantive observations. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the status of the project was not in line with article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which judicial decisions were approved by the courts on behalf of Ukraine and required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. The Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to adopt the project as a basis. The Committee on Legal Policy supports the legislative initiative and concludes that the draft does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Justice Department didn't support the project. Since the proposed moratorium does not foresee any time constraints, that is to say, it is proposed to make it timeless. The Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing notes that with the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property, it should be accompanied by a definition of the sources on which the debt for housing services should be repaid. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' assets for debt from residential services to be accepted as a basis for further consideration in the second reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the legislators. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u60	I'm asking you to sign up for national MPs who want to discuss this law from factions. I'm asking for the Freedom Union, National Deputy Pankevitch. Here comes the National MP of the Marches, the Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u61	Ruslan Marcinkov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" will support this bill introducing a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for debts from residential services. However, "Freedom" insists that the bill also be aimed at protecting socially vulnerable groups. So we're proposing to limit the estrangement of housing-communal debt solely to the cost, given, of bank accounts. But if there are debtors who own property and real estate that are worth more than the state-guaranteed level of social protection, they have to respond. So we're going to suggest that we do this on the second reading of this right over here. I would like to say separately what is happening today in the residential sector in Ukraine. Today, the authorities, while serving the interests of the oligarchs, are deliberately leading municipal enterprises to bankruptcy for the purpose of further privatization at no cost. The government is sabotaging a timely and full-scale difference in gas tariffs for the population and budgetary institutions, leading to the fact that most of the cities this summer were free of hot water and threatened today’s heating season. There are no real incentives for residential enterprises to introduce energy-saving technologies, to replace gas with cheaper energy sources that we have today in Ukraine, that's coal, that's wood, that's geothermal water. And this is the key to reducing the cost of utilities and stopping the increase in tariffs. However, the Ministry of Profiles did not put any money into these goals. So today, tariff cuts are problematic, and tariff policies are unfair for Ukrainians. Natural monopolies transferred to private hands are inevitably used for the unjust distribution of national resources. So Freedom today requires the immediate introduction of Oleg Tuggnibok's bill, Andrew Mohnik, Michael Golka on the elimination of private monopolies and consider it at the Supreme Council session, and support it. Sadly, though, this bill is being blocked today. That's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u62	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u63	Please give the word to a person who is actively caring for social housing, Volodymyr Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u64	Please, Vladimir Dinner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u65	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies. Vasilovich, I'm sorry. The bill proposes to introduce a moratorium on the enforcement of property belonging to private property rights for Ukrainian citizens. But the issue is relevant, but there is no mechanism in the project to implement the said moratorium. In particular, it is not defined how the debtor should prove that his property must be released from enforcement. By analyzing the position of the bill, one can conclude that the moratorium does not foresee any time constraints. I mean, it's suggested to make it timeless. Thus, the execution of the court’s decisions is postponed to an indefinite period, which violates article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Nor does the bill define the source for which the debt for housing services should be repaid. Thus, the introduction of such a moratorium may add to the financial burden. We should also note at the practice of the European Court of Justice "Dubenko v. Ukraine", "Juriy Mikolayovich Ivanovov v. Ukraine", which is that the right to defence cannot allow the final binding court decision to remain because we are not acting to the detriment of one party. In this regard, the bill suggested that the factions of the Party of the Regions should be rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u66	Please strike Vitalia Calla, National Deputy Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u67	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to stress exactly the difference between the two bills that we are considering today from the Communist faction and what our colleagues are making today is that it's precisely in the previous bill that we didn't vote for, why we didn't vote, why we didn't vote, that it's actually open up the possibility for rich people, the same oligarchs, rich people, not to pay utilities at all. And then by decision of the courts, their property is not actually subject to sale or execution. And so, in fact, he can stand up for these same oligarchs and rich people. What is the principle of the difference between this bill? There is a clear limit that the act of the moratorium will not extend to persons with an annual income of 100 or more, the minimum wage, and the withdrawal of funds from bank accounts. That's why we're here today, the strike faction is going to support this bill, because the problem is really huge. Today, the rate of increase in debt on wages is unfortunately unsatisfactory, and the government cannot resolve the issue of debt on wages. I'll give you only one figure, since the beginning of the year, in economically active enterprises, the wage debt has increased by 17 percent. It's not a bankruptcy company, people work, people go to work, but they don't get a salary for it. And the government can't solve the issue today. The same can be said with budget workers who are unindexed salaries, who are sitting on bare salaries -- teachers, doctors, education workers, the debt of utility services -- 13 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u69	Public service debt is now 13 billion. This only means that people don't have real resources, that real money is not enough to eliminate the debt to housing. Therefore, the strike faction clearly supports the bill and asks colleagues to support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u70	The Fatherland faction of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends, surely any step we take to meet people in the area of residential services is absolutely necessary. Today, we live in a country that uses strange decisions, regulations, laws, and regulations that rob people. For example, you realize that if a person does not get hot water in Kiev because of being turned off for repairs, they automatically start to calculate the double amount of gas that comes into this apartment, which is like a person using to heat up the water. And people have boilers and they don't use gas, they have to pay for double the gas. It's a frost that exists in many areas today, and in housing and utilities, in general. Today, citizens don't know, I'm reporting to all of Ukraine that there's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that allows you not to pay for hot water if within 3 minutes your tap does not go at a temperature above 55 degrees Fahrenheit, but some other water goes at a lower temperature that you can't think of as hot. But people pay, and if you don't have that kind of water, you can make an act directly with your neighbor to stop paying. And no court can oblige you, for there is an effective judgment of Kabmin. I also wanted to say that there are other points in this area, i.e. tariff pricing policy in the LHC is unfair. I'd also like to say that the very sphere of the confiscation of property is somehow tightened. This is total corruption. There's this SPCJust, a company that sells at minimum prices to its people, confiscated badly needed goods. So you don't have to create corruption to take away everything they had and then distribute it under the tables. Let's support this law, improve it to the second reading. But this must be done, and it must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u72	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, a minute, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u73	Peter Cibenko faction of the Company of Ukraine, head of the Council of Veterans Organization of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, as a consistent advocate of the interests of the most disadvantaged sections of the population, will certainly support this bill. We don't want to be like one anti-communist clown who fought off this stand in hysteria, and then his faction of forty votes gave three votes. And I fought, demanding the adoption of this bill. Dear colleagues, I understand as the leader of a veteran organization that today, in the worst position, has been our disadvantaged population. And so the faction will certainly support the adoption of this document. Is there another mechanism to solve the problem rather than describe housing or possessions and then sell? There's another mechanism, and we all know it very well, namely, making debt-scheduling contracts. And this mechanism can be widely used.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u74	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u75	But utilities don't want to get their heads wet, they want to describe housing, they want to describe property, they want to pull people out and they want people out. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u76	All representatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't waste your time, dear friends! I'll put it to a vote. Let's adopt the laws, and then I'll give it to you. He didn't say his name. [[B in m in s a l in]] He called that clown someone and who. Well, he didn't call anyone's last name. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, national deputies? I'm betting on the vote on the draft Law (No. 1083) on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of citizens' property for housing and utility debt. Please vote. [[11:18:45.]] For-170. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 5, Parentage Party 62, Vitalia Klicka, 27, Freedom 31, Company 31, non-fractional 14. There's a second suggestion: Bill 1083 to return to the committee for further development and reconciliation of positions. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:19:33]] For 165 Against - 1, held - 21, not voted - 200. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2454) is under consideration, a very important draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on road mortality prevention. How do MPs want to view it? Please, a reduced procedure, which is in favour, please vote. Please vote. [[11:20:27]] For-154 Against 67, held – 8, not voted – 161. Decision taken. The factions. And I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow MPs! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On August 9, a motorcyclist and his wife were beaten down by a drunk driver named Sergey Schewtsov in the town of Deaf in Suma County. Sergey Moskalenko, aged 25, died, Tetjana Moskalenko, his wife, 24 years old, alive, but unfortunately, he was mutilated. On September 2nd, in the Kyiv region, a coworker of the special division of the DAI "Cobra" Viktor Zaboltny, who was also in a state of drinking on a car killed two people who were riding a motorcycle. Every day, we get the hoarding of the war fronts, every day in Ukraine, people die on the roads. Over 6,000 people died on the road in Ukraine last year. Of these, 37 percent are drunk drivers. I have registered a bill proposing a radical increase in the responsibility of driving an alcohol - based car. A driver who has been caught driving drunk, I suggest that he be deprived of his driving rights for the rest of his life. If a drunk driver has committed an accident and there are casualties, I offer such a driver, not actually a driver, but a killer, for life to be deprived of his rights and at least 10 years in prison. Parliament cannot be away from this tragedy that we are witnessing on Ukrainian roads today. In 22 years of independence, 170,000 people were killed. More than 50 percent of them are young people. These are our children who could live, but unfortunately, because. including drunks, do not live. So I propose that we address this problem radically. And stop death walking on Ukrainian roads. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u78	Thank you. I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement dealt with Bill 2454. The bill provides for amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the liability for acts provided for in article 286 of the Criminal Code in the case of a person who was in charge of an alcoholic transport vehicle. The draft law also proposes to identify one of the ways in which national policy on national security increases road safety prevention, including through the participation of drivers of alcohol abuse. With a view to improving road safety and minimizing the negative socio-economic consequences. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that the need for proposed changes is caused by a high rate of road traffic mortality, particularly as a result of accidents involving drunk drivers. One of the most effective ways to force drivers to comply with traffic rules is to develop a system of effective penalties. At the same time, it should be noted that the law usually does not provide for criminal liability simply because a person has acted in a state of drunkenness. In the absence of material damage from such acts, the law establishes, not criminal responsibility, but administrative responsibility. The only exception is article 276 of the Criminal Code. Nor can we agree with the introduction, the inefficiency of public policy on road safety, and the threat to national interests. Despite all the importance of road safety, these threats do not pose a threat to Ukraine’s sovereignty and do little to the vital material.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u80	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u81	In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council reject the bill. It's also a similar solution to a science-expert device.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u82	I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a faction discussion. Sign up for a faction discussion. I beg you, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the national deputy of Balandin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Zubčevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u84	Pass it on to the Zubchev People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u85	Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Indeed, the road situation is complex, and the failure to comply with the traffic rules, which lead to human tragedy, has led to drunken driving. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports the bill. However, the issue of road deaths and accidents is not only a problem of non-compliance with the VAT or the need to increase fines, well, and often the condition of our roads. I'll give you an example of one of our national disgraces, the Harkov-Symferopol route, which in the summer hours is just overburdened by tens or hundreds of times. In Zaporozhye region, it is called the road of death because of the enormous flow of transport and the two-way traffic, there are dozens of deaths in the summer period, hundreds of road accidents. The Zaporozhye Regional Council has repeatedly appealed to the Cabinet of Ministers to justify the need for funding for the construction of the Harkov-Simferopol motor pool. However, the train is said to be there now. People suffer, they suffer from motorists, it all leads to tragedy. We therefore draw attention to the need for and construction of buses on those routes that are actually overloaded, which today bear heavy loads and do not meet their functional obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u86	Freedom Union, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u88	We give Andrew Mishchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u89	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The legislative initiative is populist and corrupt. In no way will I improve traffic rules and contribute more to preventing road deaths than to increasing the size of DAI’s bribes. Taking into account the state of corruption in DAI, 0.2 per cent, as indicated in this bill, which is within the scope of a statistical error, can also show DAI honest workers the device when drinking potty leaven and alcohol - intensive drugs. In doing so, a person will be deprived of his or her driver’s rights and may be deprived of his or her right to work for up to 10 years. A more appropriate measure of punishment in the form of a ban on driving means of differentiation from the alcohol content of the driver’s blood. For example, in Germany, alcohol is deprived of rights if more than 3 percent of blood alcohol is wasted. It should be borne in mind that the main task of implementing traffic rules by drivers in any country of the world is road safety and prevention, and the penal system is a discipline. In fact, self - denial of driving rights does not allow for a person’s amnesty when he is aware of the violation, nor does it deprive him of his right to work and work. In fact, this bill aims to punish ordinary citizens, but it is not a caste of untouchables: the mayors, the judges, the militias, the employees of the BSS, the deputies, the ministers, the prosecutors. Therefore, it is too early to adopt this bill if we do not have a reform of the entire DAI system at all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u90	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u91	Paul Rosenko, strike faction, please report to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u92	Let's give it to Sergei Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u93	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, 144 constituency, Poltava City. Indeed, Ukraine takes second place in the world in terms of road and wine mortality, because Ukrainian roads, which were not built by Prime Minister Azarov in his prime ministership, along with the majority in the Supreme Council that chose him, are the same problem of corruption in the DAI system, as is the problem of the DAI system that aims to get upstairs, I do not rule out that the President should be given the money that automobiles pay in the form of bribes to dikes. But this issue must be resolved and resolved by a change in Ukrainian behavior on the road in general. With change, with the formation of an anti-corruption culture. I am deeply convinced that we need to learn and borrow the experience of European countries. For example, Ukraine has a driving fine of $5,000. We need to create a system in which we will not throw a simple Ukrainian into the paws of a carjacker who will again pick it up when people are forced to sell their apartments, sell everything they have to pay for a false charge of driving a drunk driver. But at the same time, I would like to remind all of the Ukrainians where and what is the formula for all of these problems. The formula is very simple. We do not have a witty premiere in the country. And that prime minister, who is, was elected only because he was supported by a party, which is actually called the Capitalist Party. And I would like them to support the bill, which is important to the country, not the populist one, when they come out of the rostrum. So I urge everyone to support the bill in the first reading. But to make substantial adjustments to its content and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u94	Please, faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, dear colleagues, I have read this bill, so I will make a point. What I'd like to say is that you could limit yourself to the conclusion of the scientific expertise of our board of directors and the committee of profile. Because the arguments on the basis are powerful enough. However, I have no doubt that the author of Oleg Valeriyovich's legislative initiative is completely sincere in her desire not for a corrupt purpose, not for a populist purpose, but for less road deaths. On the other hand, honourable colleagues, there are two things that we can't get past, these are basic things -- the justice of punishment that defines among others, and the proportionality of punishment for the gravity of crime. Regrettably, this bill, regardless of the consequences of the crime, establishes imperatives: 10 years and a life sentence. And there's still a very important moment, I think a respected colleague will agree with me that it's not cruelness at all, or otherwise the severity of punishment, it reduces crime, and it's a very important thing -- the inevitability of punishment, the inevitability of punishment for all. In Ukrainian legislation, strict rules are sufficient to punish drunkards and even those who have had a glass of beer. More than that, what we have in our legislation is more severe: we have an acceptable dose of 0.2 per cent, which is said to be 0.8 per cent in Britain, Ireland, Switzerland, Spain, Italy. Do you understand? So I think we need to talk about the inevitability of punishment. And I still have a little time, I'll tell you. In a country like the United States, the death penalty in most states is several hundred underages, up to 14 years of age, who are underprivileged without a right of pardon, they do not know it, but there are 100,000 in prison more than anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u97	More than even in China. What this is saying is that we don't like to talk about it, it's not about harshness, it's about violence that reduces crime, it's about what I repeat the third time -- the irreversibility of punishment, regardless of who committed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u98	Thank you. We haven't heard from Fatherland, I'll give the floor to Mikola Tomenko and the minute to Sergio Mishchenko. Please, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, our position here is clear and clear. The idea and the approach are absolutely right, and we are in pain for the problem that exists today, and it needs to be solved. But obviously we understand what the outcome is, not the cause. And I think we need to think today about: (a) stopping the actual propaganda of alcohol as a state policy of Ukraine that is being implemented today. I'd like you to go to the Supreme Council, go there, and go to the MAFI, where it's sold. The only country in the world that sells alcohol and sells alcohol to children. And we still don't have a bill. So stop alcohol as a propaganda of the state. Second position. Selective justice in this matter. We do realize that corrupt police are acting in one way or another with respect to the muddy. So once again, we're thinking about mechanisms, supporting the idea, and we need to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u100	I beg of you, National Deputy Sergei Mishchenko. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u101	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear colleagues, if we ask the question, can we eliminate the problem of drunkenness on the road by raising fines or incarcerated time? It's probably partly true, but the problem is deeper. Unfortunately, today, what we see through the media, when majors, police co-workers, security services knock down drunk people on the road, they don't carry the punishment, that's the main problem, as we say, is that "hand washes." This example that now happened two days ago in the village of Cibli, Kyiv district, is my district, where a drunken co-worker of Cobra knocked down two people in this village of 20 years and his rear number was released, and they say that it's not a police co-worker, and they're now engulfing the case, that's the main problem today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u103	So in this particular case, I ask the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, to address my and Vitaly Jaremi in this case, and to take him to control. And this bill needs to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u104	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'll bet you a vote. He was the first to speak from the Communists. All right, we're done here. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2454) amending certain Ukrainian laws on the prevention of road death as a basis. Please vote. [[11:38:12]] For 118 Against – 0 held – 64, did not vote – 205. Decision taken. F factions, please. Region Party 11, Fatherland 36, Vitaly Klicka Hit 30, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 30, non-factional 11. Can we vote back on the committee, can we put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote on putting draft law 2454 back on the committee for further work. Please vote. [[11:39:11]] For 278 Against 0, held – 5, not a vote – 103. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 125, Parenthood 47, Vitalia Klicka, 31, Freedom 30, Ukraine 30, non-fractional 15. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (on requests from Ukrainian national deputies) is under consideration. Registration number of draft Laws 1172 and 1172-1. How would you like to vote now or consider? I'm asking for an offer to vote, a proposal for a reduced procedure, I think. I'm putting the vote to a reduced procedure. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[11:40:39]] For-142 Against 77, held – 4, did not vote – 160. The decision is not taken. The factions. And I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Volodymyrovich Koshulinski. Please. Then the national MP will be Tetjana Jaroslavna Tear. Welcome, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen, among the legislative forms of parliamentary control over the activities of public authorities, enterprises, institutions, local self-government bodies, the servitude of the MP's right to ask them with a parliamentary request. Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy" stipulates that the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy is sent to the appropriate authority or official, except for the President of Ukraine, subject to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a decision of one fifth of its constitutional composition. At the same time, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 14 October 2003 provides for the referral of a request by the Ukrainian National Deputy to the authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the heads of other State authorities and local self-government bodies, and to the heads of enterprises, institutions and organizations located in Ukraine, does not require the approval of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Part two of article 224 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also states that the brief content of the duly prepared and submitted parliamentary request shall be announced to the chairman at the nearest day following the submission of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at which the time is set for the announcement of parliamentary requests. In view of the above, I propose that the first part of article 15 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy be deleted. Its approval will allow Ukraine’s legislation to be brought into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the established practice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s consideration of questions related to parliamentary questions. The implementation of this bill does not require changes to other laws of Ukraine and additional expenses from the State Budget of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u106	Put it to the vote? I'm asking for another project. Have a seat. I don't see any questions to the reporter. I beg of you, National Deputy Tetjan Yaroslavna Tear.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u107	The honourable ones present in the bill are amended in three articles: Article 15, Article 16, and Article 32. Article 15, changes are made regarding the shortening of the deadlines for the consideration of parliamentary inquiries. To date, this is a valid edition of 15 calendar days. I propose that the deadline be reduced to five working days. Part 8 of this article suggests that the responsibility for examining a parliamentary request be increased. The current version of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy provides that a review of a parliamentary request for today is under consideration by a supervisor or an official. And to this day, we all face very often cases where our parliamentary inquiries are not addressed by heads of departments, but by heads of departments or other officials. So I exclude the rule that this parliamentary request is solely considered by the manager or the person who replaces it on time for a valid reason is leave, hospital leave, departure. Thus, changes are made to part two of article 16 regarding parliamentary appeals. Today, the deadline for examining parliamentary appeals is ten calendar days, and I cut that deadline to five working days. Changes will also be made to part four of article 16 regarding increased responsibility for the consideration and response of problems raised by MPs in the parliamentary appeals. It also excludes the rule that parliamentary appeals are considered "or an official" – solely by the heads of public authorities, local governments, businesses, institutions, organizations. Article 32 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also amended. To date, the current editorial states that Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance is obliged to carry out at least one twelfth of its budget assignments each month to finance expenditure on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am editing this article in part one, and I foresee that funding should be carried out solely in accordance with the rules of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the State Budget Act for the year in question. I make a change to part two of article 32, which says that if the Ministry of Finance counts less than one twelfth of Ukraine’s Supreme Council, it is the Supreme. The Supreme Council’s apparatus collects the corresponding sum from the State Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the incas were still working for us in the last century. There have been no incasual errands for more than ten years. So I propose to delete part two of this 32 article. I ask you very much to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign up for the question, sign up. Aunt Jaroslavna, there's a question for you, in Yavorowski, in Tomenka, in Odaric. Yes, please, Paul Rosenko, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u109	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Well, obviously, we have only one major doubt about shortening the deadline for responding from ministries, central authorities at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Because unfortunately, we don't need them to answer us faster with you, but we need essentially the Ministry to give us. The question asked by the Ukrainian national deputy was answered and given us a good answer. And you were the head of the department there, and I was in this skin too, and we understand with you that in five days, well, I'm sorry, to figure out the problem, the more the bulk of the MP's questions is big. So in this part, we have a lot of doubts about this bill, which, unfortunately, could make it worse for the quality of the answers given to the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u110	Thank you for asking, Reverend Paul Valeriovich. I want to explain the order of the numbers. To date, 10 calendar days are being considered as parliamentary appeals. I'm offering five working days. There could be a stick there for 1-2 days. It's the same on the MP's request. 15 calendar days and 5 working days. We forget with you that there is such a norm that, under the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, if the MP's request or appeal is subject to further scrutiny, the law in force provides for an extension to 30 calendar days. We use that standard. And I also want to say. In fact, when we were working with you in the executive branch, I personally gave very careful and qualitative answers and looked at all the "painful" programs. The problems that have been sent by the national MPs, despite the factions they have been from. And now, unfortunately, I face things like this in person that I have to write both the second and the third and the fourth. And that's why the quality of the consideration of solving all the problems raised in parliamentary inquiries and parliamentary appeals for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u111	The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u112	Vladimir Vasilovich, please pass on the word to Vladimir Yavorowski. He will express our common question before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u113	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u114	Dear Mrs. Tears! Well, the fact that the MP's request today is completely devalued and devalued is quite obvious. I could demonstrate this to the minister's response on how it happened that the firm of Janukovic's son would have 15 percent of the salt gas. But I'm talking about something else. Please tell me, is it appropriate, or should we change the standard that is today? I mean, the President's request, the President's request, should be 226 votes. You know, no request from the opposition in this room is that many votes. Because of this, the President is simply cut off from the opposition. How do you see the same way you vote for all requests, and so does the request to the President?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u115	I fully support your offer. And we can make these changes when we look at the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat. Request time's up. People’s deputies, please, is there a need for discussion? Yes. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Huh? And the committee head hasn't said a word yet. Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP Volodymyr Vladimirovich Makeyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee at its meeting on 17 April this year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies (for requests by Ukrainian MPs) at number 1172, introduced by the National Deputy Kosulinski Ruslán Vladimirovich. The project proposes to exclude from article 15 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" a rule according to which the decision to refer a parliamentary request to the relevant authority or official is taken by one fifth of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the proposed amendments is based on the need to bring the stated rule of law into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the established practice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on questions relating to parliamentary questions. The Committee, attention to Freedom, supported this legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention. Now, as for immediately, probably 1172/1.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u118	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u119	At its meeting on 17 April this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on changes in the order and terms of consideration of parliamentary requests and appeals (number 1172-1), submitted by the National MP, Tear Tetjan Yaroslavna. The project proposes to amend articles 15,16, 32 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", providing for a reduction in the terms of consideration of parliamentary requests and parliamentary appeals according to 15 and 10 days to 5 days, as well as a change in the order in which expenditure related to parliamentary activity is financed. The committee did not support the proposal by the author of the bill to shorten the deadlines for examining parliamentary appeals and requests to 5 days and to change the procedure for financing expenses related to parliamentary activity, since the existing mechanism is one that does not conflict with budgetary legislation, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be reviewed to restore its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The Ukrainian National Deputies are asked to identify themselves from the above-mentioned issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u120	Is there a question for Vladimir Volodymyrovich? Please sign in. Yes, there is a question for you. Please, the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u121	Please pass on the word to Yuri Odarchenk, who is actively concerned that parliamentary questions be considered and answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u122	Please, Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Do you not think it was necessary, apart from the adoption of this bill, that we should clearly determine the obligation to carry out parliamentary requests? It seems to me that it would be necessary to further develop a separate procedure for the protection of the right of a national MP to the right of reply and that it might be possible to compare the wrong answer to a request or a request for corruption. How do you view this as the head of the Standing Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u124	Thank you, dear colleague, both you and I, and many of us are not the first year in this room. I understand your proposal very well, but it's not the wish that it only sounds on the air, but in writing, please refer to the Legislative Committee as the right of legislative initiative and we will work with you on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u126	May I have the floor of the MP to the Peacekeeper?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u127	We give the word to the MP to the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u128	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Volodymyr, I have a very simple question for you. In case we, the hall, support the bill and five working days. How do you think, physically, technically, the authorities will be able to give answers to five virgins, or should there still be a slightly different term? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. Indeed, when this proposal arose within five days, we communicated with government officials and from our experience, and from the experience of our colleagues, we see it as a very small term because there will be discounts. You know very well that the government is changing, the government is changing. So in order to be a good answer, you have to leave the old terms, in five days, an official, especially if it's not just a problem in the central city of Kiev, but in the regions, well, he won't give a good answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u130	Yeah, we got a minute. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u131	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, I am back to this five - day rule. You know, in your argument, you said the right things. But here's another aspect of why you can't do 5 days. If you're interested, my colleague, in the process, then you can have three days. Then there's a nice request, a nice question, I mean, a nice name, then it's clear that no analytics, no serious response to that question, and there's not going to be, there's going to be a write-off. But you could say that I've asked 20 to 30 questions about this topic. If a person is really interested in the outcome, not the process, he is interested in making the answer more than just sound, but in making it objective, which helps the case. So the right decision of your committee is to reject these populist things and to get out of the fact that the answers have to be serious and not just meant to tell their voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u132	Thank you. It's not a question, it's a performance. I can only add that the author of Tetjana Jaroslavovna's bill has also worked in the government for a very long time, and she knows very well what the workload is in order to make a good response to the people's MP, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Have a seat. We continue with the session until the full consideration of this subject, this meeting. Shall we vote or discuss? Discuss. Please sign up for factions. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Caplin Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u135	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u136	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltawa, 144 constituency. In fact, voters need to understand and know who doesn't know that you're actually preparing, signing, to some extent. Because it is you who, when you have a problem, turn to a national MP. The national deputy studies the problem and directs his or her parliamentary appeal or request to a high - ranking official. This was the case when, after receiving a petition from a few dozen people who had been beaten, who had been shot by the chief of staff, I was asked to help them solve the problem, to return to justice and to assess the actions of this high-ranking man who defined the personnel policy of the entire government. Then I went to Prime Minister Azarov, and he didn't answer me at all, and I didn't get any answer at all. I appealed to the court, but the court, the Kyiv District Administrative Court, made up of three judges, ruled that the answer was not for 10 or 15 days, but for 30 days. This was recorded in a court decision. I mean, I want to tell you that there is a whole court precedent when the Ukrainian national deputy, even after such a resonant statement, when people are beaten and shot by ordinary officials of the Cabinet of Ministers, can not be answered or answered at all in 30 days. The same was true when I called on Azarov to return to the people of the microregion of the Red Path of Poltava School, which has an extraordinary historical value for Ukraine, which even the Nazis did not allow their armies, invaders, to destroy. And today, just so you know, the kids of this school didn't go to another school, they're studying in the National Opposition Deputies and waiting for their school to be returned. I want to point out that, more importantly, MPs have MPs and MPs' requests, which are the only weapons that can protect the interests of the common people. And so we need a more thorough, deeper bill, which will take into account, in particular, the possibility of a court-martialed, objective prosecution of the actions of officials who simply write off, sometimes we find answers that have been given to the deputies of previous calls, that officials change just the addressee. There is a need for serious reform, a very detailed work. And that's an extremely important question, because it's a question of ordinary people and the interaction of parliamentarians with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u137	The Fatherland faction. I see Odarchenko has given the word of Knyazevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u138	I thank Yuri Vitaliovich very much for his word. Dear Mr. Head, I'm very sorry that I haven't had the opportunity to ask a question to the head of the regulatory committee, but if you'll excuse me, I'm going to appeal to you. Now we have an unprecedented fact in Parliament when we are asked to vote in favour of two bills as alternatives, although they are not alternatives to the Supreme Council Rules. Because I remind you that 100 articles of the Rules say that alternatives are those bills that essentially regulate the same standards. What do we have now? One bill removes the rule of law one, and the other proposes to amend completely different rules of law. As a result, if we follow the 110 - article Rules, we can no longer vote in favour of the bill in the first reading of the Kosulinsky bill. That's ridiculous. Dear colleagues, what the regulatory committee did, I don't know, but I appeal to you, if it's any other issue, so it's no wonder that we made it easier for them to work yesterday, obviously they really need it. And now, in fact, I thank Ruslan Volodymyrovich very much for actually doing the work of the Constitutional Court. In 2003, the Constitutional Court considered this issue and instead of declaring it unconstitutional, it gave a general interpretation of the Constitution and the law, and forgot to delete the rule of law that it was considering. Now it's been 10 years, this rule has existed, it was essentially dead, but it actually existed. And we're not bringing it to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but to the requirements of the Constitution, because the Constitutional Court seems to me to have failed to properly execute its mandate and not given the right decision. As far as the Muggle bill is concerned, he's referring to something else, to bring the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies into line with the Law on Access to Public Information. Many colleagues here said that it was not enough days for five, at least fifteen. Dear colleagues, aren't we reading what we're receiving? The Law on Access to Public Information has already set a five - day deadline, but it does not extend to requests by national deputies and to appeals by deputies. She now proposes another law to bring into line with the Law on Access to Public Information, no more, no less. And with regard to the budget, so-called "suspension" was spoken from the head of the committee's mouth, she, including, proposes to adapt to the budgetary legislation that has already been amended since the adoption of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. This bill was adopted at the dawn of parliamentaryism in 1993; it is morally outdated; it needs to be changed radically. Of course, it's an attempt to do something about it, although I think a long time ago there's a need to change it in general. So on behalf of the faction, we insist that these bills be individually put to the vote, and we ask for the individual support of both the bill and the other bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u139	Thank you. I think the committee's heard a point that's right. Party of regions, National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u140	May I have the floor, Herman?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Annie Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! And your actions in the early days of this session, and the principle of asking the President of Ukraine, show that the course is to raise the role and authority of the Ukrainian Parliament and its significance in the life of the state. And the parliamentary question as a mechanism to enhance this authority is certainly of great importance. And I would support the opposition here to destroy the devaluation here, which was for the MP's request. To that end, it seems to me that we need to be able to call here to Parliament those leaders who do not respond adequately to parliamentary requests and have one day in Parliament when we can here listen to the head of the state of all levels that deal with either write-offs or do not respond accordingly. That is, to raise the reputation of a parliamentary request is the same as to take the next step towards raising the role and importance of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd support the opposition here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u143	Thank you. That's a good offer. Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u145	National deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u146	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The bills that we will now consider 1172 and 1172-1, in fact, as said by colleague Knazevitch, should not have been considered and registered by the Supreme Council's apparatus as alternative because they have a different plane of legislative settlement. Laconically speaking, Bill 1172. Ruslan Kosulinski’s bill was unanimously supported. And it was a perfectly normal response essentially to correcting a mistake that has been preserved in our current legislation for several years. It's about the Tetjana Tears bill. It contains a different plane of legal regulation, but this plane should also be considered in the context of the work of the executive authorities. I would like to point out that after yesterday, after the start of the new session, I would like to encourage colleagues to take a different view of parliamentary questions. And I'd like to go separately to the Cabinet of Ministers and the ministries. Because in the first and second sessions, all the questions that came along, we received a letter at the right time. So this area needs to be regulated, but above all, we see the reluctance of no ministries, no district or district administrations to provide comprehensive information. A number of examples can be cited, but the fact remains: 9 of the 10 parliamentary questions announced at the High Council meeting on Friday do not find a proper settlement. As for the substance of the vote. I ask my colleagues to support Law 1172 on the basis of which I ask that I also be determined by Law 1172-1, because they are not alternatives. The committee really had a complication in their consideration. I'd like to put it to a vote separately and be determined on each bill separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u147	Thank you. From the faction they all spoke. You two are non-fractional. I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, don't shout! [[B in m in s a l in]] Deputy Lazko, you're hindering the deputies from working. They're coming out of factions now. He's asking for a non-frustrational word. And then I'll put the floor to the vote. Sit down! I'm asking you so much! Please, Sergey Mishchenko, give me a minute. We'll make it work!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u148	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Lvivščina. As far as the first bill is concerned, it is clear, and it needs to be supported, because we have lived de facto for 10 years without this article, because we have never put one fifth to a vote in order to send a parliamentary request, but in the Rules this rule existed. There are no questions. I must urge the Hall to support this bill. As for the other bill, well, agree with me that no matter how much money we put -- at least three, at least five, at least 40, at least a year, but in an inappropriate way, our petitions and our questions are being answered. Why? And what can you say to yourself, and how much of the disciplinary responsibility for an improper response has been drawn to officials on our behalf and to our questions? I can say zero! And as for the false answers that exist, so does zero. And it's a corrupt component, and you don't need any legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u149	Thank you. He wants to come out of Lashko. Is there still an MP on the show or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, there is! Then please sign in. Please sign in. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Calchenko. Where's Calchenko? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u151	Now let's do it. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! The question that we're discussing today may seem to someone, well, very petty, something about MPs is being discussed. In fact, the MP's appeal, and especially the MP's request, which goes through the Supreme Council and is signed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, is coming. And it goes to the officials, in fact, it's one of the most important tools for the execution of parliamentary powers. I remember very well how all of this, what was the significance of the MP's questions somewhere, let's say, at the beginning, in the mid-1990s, they were operational answers, they were the exact answers that gave the MP some tools, the informational ones I mean first, and they responded very quickly. What we have today has become absolute formality, to some extent even the beating of a national MP. Because I could now quote here the answers that I get from very important today for Ukrainian society and annoying questions, and from what is being built here, on this Park Hall, and what is there going to be, a pool hall, is there going to be this helipad? I had no answer. I mentioned here that the problem with the same solar gas that created some completely mythical structure that is drawn to the President’s family today. I wrote back, I got, literally, a Jesuit answer, where there's nothing completely accurate. In doing so, journalists sometimes accumulate a lot more than we are given by an official. I, Vladimir Vasilovich, am addressing you, in fact, over the years. You've never asked a very important question about this cadence: it's an MP not satisfied with the answer of an official. He has the right to go to the rostrum for three minutes and tell us why he is not satisfied. And I would support, there was this one statement about, really, and the law stipulates, calling that official to the Supreme Council and asking him here: why is he, why is he so responding, why isn't he responding? I'm talking about a high-ranking officer, not, let's say, some kind of cleric. I'm also convinced that we should open up to the MPs and the President, and we don't need to get 226 votes. If the MP raises an important question to the head of state, regardless of who Janukovic is, not Yanukovic, there will be other presidents, but the MP has the right to address this important issue to the President himself. I think it's very important and we need to put both of these bills to a vote today. And I am convinced that the national MPs, although I now see the half-empty hall on this side and on this side, but these bills must be voted for. Then, perhaps, unify them, supplement them, accept them as one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Ask for the word of the Turk, Alexander Valentinovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] He asked for half a minute. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! We've talked to you about our country's strategic priority for European integration. The Conciliation Council should work from 12 hours. Today on the committees, we need to identify and prepare a European package for tomorrow's vote. As far as these laws are concerned. They're important, we need to support them, and we're going to define them by voting now. I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote and to work on European integration, as we have decided yesterday and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-04-m0.u155	The MPs support this proposal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Let's let the hall determine. Then don't shout. I ask you to vote in favour of the Turkinoff proposal. Please vote. [[12:16:43]] For 233 233 people's deputies made decisions -- most of them, and I'll do it. Do you have a deal? I put to the vote by law, as requested by the MPs. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 1172) amending the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" (for requests from the Ukrainian National Deputies). This is a project by the national deputy, Ruslan Volodymirovich Kosulinski. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[12:17:49]] For-170. Against-0, held-1, not 181. The decision is not taken. Factions, factions. The second draft of Act No. 1172-1 amending the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" (for requests by the Ukrainian National Deputies) is put to the vote. This is a project by the Ukrainian national deputy Tetjana Jaroslavina Tear. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:54]] For 109 Against-1, held-49, didn't vote 206. The decision is not taken. What are the proposals for deputies? Both of you? Is there a proposal for MPs number 1172, we're going to vote separately? 1172 to be sent to the committee for further work. 1172 votes. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:19:50]] For 172 Against 0, held – 12, not a vote – 173. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm betting on the vote, as you suggested, namely, Vice-Deputy Kyle, to send a bill to the committee for further elaboration (1172-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[12:20:31]] For-140. Against 0, held – 12, not a vote – 200. The decision is not taken. The factions. The laws are rejected. I wish fruitful work to the National Committees. And I declare the morning session closed. I wish you all the best.
