ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:52]] A total of 329 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let's get back to work. The Ukrainian Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22 June 2012, is being considered. The report is given by Yuri Romanović Miroshnichenko, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 24 May 2012, the Law on the Development of Biological Fuels and Consumption (registration number 0978) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The low law does not correspond to the constitutional principles of the organization and to the exercise of State executive power. This law significantly duplicates the rules of the current Law on Alternative Fuels, including the application of the same terms, the definition of the same principles of public policy in the field, the definition of the same sources of financing, and so on. The law does not propose a new approach that takes into account the real state of biological fuel production. According to the Head of State, it is unacceptable to lay down a law on the definition of the terms "biological fuels" and "bioethanol" because they do not comply with other provisions of this law, as well as with the rules of other legislative acts: the issuance by the authorized executive authority of an additional document on the identification of fuel, as it is not specifically defined which body of the executive authority should issue this document; the definition of a mechanism of State regulation for the production and consumption of biofuels produced in Ukraine, because only the State Budget Act defines any expenditure of the State on common needs; the increase in the proportion of biofuels produced in the general range of traditional fuels by 2015, because Ukraine does not have the necessary powers of the State to produce any expenditure on the common needs; and the increase in the proportion of the share of biofuels produced by the legislative organs of the state, because of the traditional fuels produced by the state. In connection with the above, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u3	Is there a question for Yuri Romanovich? None. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Mikolayovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! We are facing an extraordinary challenge in Ukraine to find alternative sources of energy and introduce energy-saving technologies, because it is not a secret that we are today an import-dependent state and more than half we import either oil or oil for its processing. And one way to reduce the use of traditional kinds of energy in Ukraine can be by energy from biomass, which is widely used in the world. It is a pity that our country, with considerable potential for producing energy from biomass, does not use it to this day. At present, major investments are mainly in the raw materials sector, since foreign investors are interested in increasing exports, such as rape seed and other crops that are processed into biofuels abroad and could be processed in Ukraine. Moreover, it is important to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with the European Union’s legislation on environmental protection. The direct consequences of ensuring the production and consumption of biological fuels are to increase the level of energy security of the state and to reduce dependence on energy imports. The steady development and sustainability of the agro-industry complex, the creation of new jobs, and the increase in income from all levels, and the improvement of environmental security. The committee carefully considered all the comments made and prepared in the President’s veto. To a large extent, we can agree with or disagree with them, but in the end, the discussion committee expressed its willingness to work on further improvement of this issue and decided to agree with the President of Ukraine's proposals to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u5	Is there a question for Gregory Mikolaiovich? None. To the author of the Kirilenko Bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u6	Dear friends, colleagues, dear Mr. Head! It's very unfortunate that in turn, this is no longer the first bill to apply to the energy independence of our state, promised by the President. It's very sad and very sad. I just want to name the numbers so that we understand that we're rejecting. The potential of biofuels in Ukraine is six times greater than the current energy consumption of our country. No country in the world has that potential. We walk on free energy given to us by the nature given to us by the Ukrainian motherland, our countries. A six - fold supply compared to what we are eating today. Dear friends, bioenergy, biofuels, ecology, once. In Europe it's Euro-5, we've got Euro-2. We continue to poison the environment, poison our children. Let's get drunk. It's too bad. "Euro-2" Ukraine produces and imports what? We import where Euro-5 is made from our bioresources. It's from our rape, it's from our corn, it's from our soy. The second question is the energy independence that we all dream of with you. Tens of billions of currencies each year go for gas, oil, and petroleum products. We walk by ourselves in the land that today provides so much plant produce that we can provide both biodiesel and bioethanol. The third question is that we give a new, powerful motivation to our agricultural producer. Have you ever seen American farmers strike somewhere in the last 5 to 10 years? No, it's not. They grow corn and grow soybeans. 60 million tons of corn in the United States is produced at least annually by bioethanol. Great support and subsidies by the state of these processes. 60 million tons, by the way, is the need for an African continent with a billion people to eat. Americans go for this: biofuels, energy independence, ecology. And finally, dear friends, the biofuel is a huge perspective of ours, not just energy, but in general our sovereignty, our independence, this is the future of Ukraine. We don't have to promise, and if there are any suggestions that we can work on, let's really look at them and work on them. But this is the energy and national independence of our nation. We will not support the repeal of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine proposes rejecting Ukraine's Biofuel Development and Consumption Act. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, after considering the proposals of the President of Ukraine, also proposes to reject this law. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 135, part 1, of the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to reject the entire Ukrainian Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[16:13:58]] For-143 Against 61, held – 75, not voted – 95, only 374. So let's ask the question of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. I'm willing to vote against the veto of the President of Ukraine under this law. Please vote. [[16:14:42]] For 113 Against 47, held – 83, did not vote – 132, total – 375. The decision is not taken. The factions. The law has been rejected! Region Party 3, Fatherland 63, Vitala Klitschka Strike 7, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 7. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 06.08.2012. For a report on the subject, please contact the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (Registration No. 0980) adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 July 2012 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First, the provision proposed by law for the purchase by the Agrarian Fund of services related to the storage, transport, processing and insurance of public price facilities will enable the purchase of such services at any cost, including higher market prices, at the expense of public budget spending and the application of corruption schemes. The state price regulation will require substantial additional costs from the state budget. However, no public expenditure is foreseen. Secondly, the proposed legal mechanism for implementing or transferring free of charge to the Agrarian Fund of State Price Regulators from the State Intervention Fund of a designated supplier violates the constitutional principles of competition in the agricultural product market, contravenes the Budget Code, as it may lead to a breach of the principle of budgetary balance, entails risks of using corruption schemes in the management of public price facilities and may also result in unforeseeable budget losses. It must be added that outside the scope of the law, there is a question of a mechanism for setting up a designated supplier that can be implemented or transferred free of charge to public price regulators, as well as the issue of their liability. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u9	Is there a question? Please sign up for the question. Let's do factions so there's a possibility. Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u11	Leonov's passing it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u12	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Hmelnicka District, District 189. The draft law does not deal with the mechanism for setting up a designated supplier that can be implemented or transferred free of charge to government price regulation objects from the State Investment Fund. The mechanism of responsibility of the designated supplier has not been regulated. [[B in m in s a l in]] The designated supplier for the non-refundation of the relevant state resources in the same amount, in the same quality as it is to be supplied to the State Innovation Fund. [[B in m in s a l in]] This does not indicate the source and extent of the budget needed to implement the bill. There are other openly corrupt schemes in the bill. This law is corrupt! So we think he's bad. And that's why we think we should reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u13	Thank you, fellows of honor! In fact, it is very difficult for me to answer questions when I do not hear them. But at the same time, in fact, my dear colleagues, I understand that you support the position of the President of Ukraine regarding the rejection of this law. Because the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, of human rights and freedoms and of the citizen, primarily ensures that the norms of the Constitution, which governs the basic principles of the life of our society, are respected. Moreover, the legitimate interests of our citizens have not been affected by our mistakes. That's why this only proposal to reject this law was made. I, my honourable colleagues, will tell you who do not have experience working in the previous House of Parliament, that very often the President of Ukraine, without paying attention to whose suggestions there were, whose arguments there were, whether there were representatives of the majority or opposition, always carefully analyzes the arguments and approves the relevant decisions. So I invite you to cooperate with us so that our laws can be quality and for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u14	From Tomenko's Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u15	Volodymyr Vasilovich, please hand over to my colleague and a well-known agricultural expert, John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u16	Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u17	Dear Yuri Romanovich, you remember when we adopted this law, as we protested, the left side of the hall, and what we call opposition, as we protested against the adoption of this law. And even the President concluded that the law that had been passed contained clear signs of corruption. Remember how the Agrarian Foundation was created and why it was designed. It was designed solely to avoid disturbances in the consumer market, on the one hand, so that prices would not rise, but, on the other hand, that peasants would not be destroyed when they were reproducing. Now the Agrarian Fund is a tool today to get rich, to steal. The President has made a perfectly logical commitment, and we support that he has made a commitment to such a law that contains completely corrupt schemes. We need to avoid it. Because he voted in favour of this law and the authors of this law are representatives of today's majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u18	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. I want to emphasize once again that you've actually illustrated my words. When the President gets our approved laws with you, he doesn't look at who the author is, he sees how this law will contribute to the continuation of reforms, how it will respond to the interests of the Ukrainian people. And in fact, you've now seen that opposition representatives have been heard in their arguments, and the President has applied his veto power to improve the quality of the approved laws. That's why I urge you not to see each other as enemies, but to work on the quality of the decisions we make. And in fact, thank you for supporting the President's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u19	Faction Impact, Capplin. A corner of the people's MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u20	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u21	Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u22	Alexander Mirny. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Igor, I am answering your question. We have drawn your attention to the shortcomings in this law, which we believe have a significant impact on the content of the law. Unlike what you've been commenting on. And all you were asked to do was comment on the flaws we see. But we didn't say that we supported the President's position. Please. Your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u23	Thank you. My name is Yuri, Yuri Miroshnichenko, and this is for help. As for the content, as you've noticed, I'm trying to avoid the political aspects of my speech, not just in the rostrum. In this case, you actually share the position of the President, and he shares the position of those experts who paid attention to the risks associated with the document. We are not trying to find the guilty or the right today. We must work with you to ensure that the laws of Ukraine are in the interest of Ukrainian citizens. And this should be done both by the faction of the Party of Regions and by the faction of Freedom, as well as by the other factions in our Parliament. We're not enemies, we're colleagues. And the quality of our work depends on harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u24	Have a seat. Have a seat, Yuri Romanovich. The report is given to Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 10 January 2013 considered this bill with proposals by the President of Ukraine on State support for agriculture, which he returned to review. The Committee agreed unanimously that in the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, the mechanism for implementing or transferring free of charge to the Agrarian Fund for State Prices with the State Intervention Fund defined by the Supplier is such that it violates the constitutional principles of competition, contravenes the Budget Code of Ukraine, risks the application of corruption schemes with the provision of public pricing facilities and can lead to unforeseeable budget losses. To the honor of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, the decision of the committee on the bill was also negative when it was first and second reading. Therefore, we consider it appropriate to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u26	Any questions for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up. Grizzenko is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to teach the President or the Presidential majority, but purely for justice. Such disgraceful things as they are now, they are a breakthrough in your work. Because when the government introduces a bill, there is a representative of the President sitting at the government meeting who can at this stage block corruption schemes. The other one. When one of the factions' leaders doesn't call his name, raises his hand to the mountain, he's got a piece of paper that says the president's position, a plus or minus. And the President's representative is also sitting in the hall. So you gave twice the good for corruption schemes. You've passed the law, and now you're taking time in all of us to spot your corruption schemes. Be honest until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u28	Any more questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Bondarenko. Chewchenko, Fatherland. And then Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u29	I'm asking you to pass the word to Taras Kutov, faction of "BACK."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u30	Thank you. Taras Kutov, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u31	I don't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u32	Please don't take my time. Taras Kutovov, Vitalia Klicka Faction, Poltavska District, 151 District. I want to give a little bit of attention to how this law came about in the first place, which it had a sequel to, and what we've come up with now. This law was passed in the run-up to the elections, and accordingly it was dedicated to the President. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to set a minimum price of 220 milk for Ukraine. Today, we have to talk about why we are as a strike party today, because milk production since independence has dropped twice, from 24 million to 11. This question is extremely important, but it is not working. And we're against milk being listed as price regulation in a proper way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u33	Taras Viktorovich, thank you, this will be the next bill, not the bill, but the law, this is the Agrarian Fund Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u34	Bondarenko, Fatherland. Anna Mikolayevno, I have to sign up, I can't give it to you. You're not written down. I'll give it to you now. Bondarenko, Fatherland. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u35	Dear reporter! I have one simple question. Every time we encounter documents submitted by the President regarding a veto or a disagreement with a position, we notice that corruption schemes are working. And there are so many national deputies, as well as government officials, who are promoting their lobbying interests. Don't you want to make proposals about violating the criminal case of one or more to start with by stretching corruption laws first, and then by overcoming the veto or by rejecting the laws of return to the status quo. I think such criminal cases would be useful.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u36	Thank you very much, colleague, but this is not the subject of our committee's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u37	Have a seat, thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. According to part of article 135 of the Rules, I am voting for a motion to reject the entire Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[16:30:53]] For 206 Against – 2, held – 80, did not vote – 96, only 384. I'm willing to vote against the veto of the President of Ukraine under this law. Please vote. [[16:31:32]] For-9 Against 55, held – 161, not voted – 151, all of it – 376. Factions: Region Party 8, Fatherland, 1, Vitalia Klitka, 0, Freedom, 0, Company, 0, non-fractional, 0. The law is rejected. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the Regulation of Buying Prices for Milk is being considered with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 03.07.2012. Reported by President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u38	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich! You know, I'm going back to the last vote, and I was so sorry when we all talked about the imperfections of the law, but we're still going to get the motivation for voting out of our political preferences or prejudices. Dear colleagues, this is about Ukrainian citizens. The law is signed or approved, not for our own ambitions, but for the benefit of our citizens. So I invite our colleagues from all the factions who are very principled about issues of our integrity to come out conscientiously, according to our oath, during each vote. Thank you for your attention. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 7 June 2012 by the Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (registration of purchase prices for milk) (registration number 0981) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The head of state is not supported by the proposal for, firstly, the placing of raw milk and milk products on the list of government price regulation objects. Under the law, the Agar Fund will be obliged to purchase nearly two million tons annually, I stress, of all, without exception, of dairy products. Given the limitations of their storage time, it is not possible to ensure the intervention of these products through the Agrarian Stock Exchange. In addition, additional expenditure on the budget will require purchases. Saving and transporting this product. This will lead to an increase in both wholesale and retail prices for milk and milk products. In addition, it is quite controversial to establish for enterprises that carry out ready-made activities a period of accounting with suppliers of no more than seven bank days from the date of receipt of the product. This may lead to a significant deterioration in the balance of payments for processing enterprises, since the technological conditions for the production of individual products, such as raw materials, require some time to obtain goods. This creates a risk of washing off the company’s circulation costs, reducing production by reducing the volume of raw materials and reducing such periods and volumes, which will result in lower purchase prices for milk and lead to higher prices for production in a fragmented network. The President still has a number of comments on this law that cannot be corrected by reworking in the session room. That is why, while understanding and supporting the concern of the people's deputies and the resonance of this problem, the President proposes to reject this law without avoiding the analysis of the problem. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if this decision is adopted today, namely the President's position on the rejection of the law, we will have legislative possibilities to resolve this issue. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u39	Any questions with the deputies? Yes. Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Yavorowski, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u40	I'm handing the word to my colleague at the "Fatherland" faction Kravczuk Vasilev, who is very aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u41	Kravczuk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. I want to go to peasants for whom milk production is probably the only source of income today. Everyone promised before the elections, especially the authorities that would adopt the law, and voted before the elections on the fact that the price of milk would already be fixed. They promised that when the majors drove around, the price of milk would be better for the peasants. But the elections have passed, and all the problems of peasants are once again not needed by the government or the President. The president found that there was no budget, according to Yuri; the president found that he had 7 days to calculate that this would lead to the laundering of the costs of the factory. Nobody cares about the village. That's why I'm asking you to overcome the veto. In case of irresistible transfer to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u43	What question do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u44	Thank you for asking. And actually that was a comment. Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to the president's position. It is that it shares the concerns of many, including the national MPs, who represent our regions, who have passed major elections, who know how resonant this issue is in rural areas. But let's say the standards that are here, they can't be localized, they have to be comprehensively regulated. Well, let's say I was already giving an example of ours. The rules of ours, which we have foreseen for the Agrarian Stock Exchange to purchase and the Agrarian Fund to buy all kinds of dairy products and then to intervene. That's impossible. The president takes note of the shortcomings of the law. The president says it's best, considering our Rules (I'm already adding myself) to prepare a comprehensive and complex law that would take into account, on the one hand, the course of reform and deregulation in the economic sphere, but on the other hand, he guaranteed our peasants to receive funds, which is very often the case because.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u45	Please, Freedom Union, Kyda, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u46	Thank you. Please give the floor to Igor Sabia, deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u47	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u48	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, election district number 189. [[B in m in s a l in]] The All - Ukrainian Freedom Union held protest campaigns for three years to raise milk prices. [[B in m in s a l in]] In fact, the adoption of this law was caused by the whole country’s milk mafia boycott. In this law, the Party of the Regions evaporated very well, telling how it supported Ukrainian peasants when it adopted a not very good law. When the emperor passed, on July 4, when the language law was passed, the president promised this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a question: when will the Party of Regions stop lying and finally give any support to the villagers? Because it's all a lie and a vile pianist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u49	It was of course a comment, but I can take it as a question. But I'm stressing and pointing out to you, my distinguished colleagues, that I'm not reporting on the position of the Party of Regions that you just accused, and I'm reporting on the position of the President of Ukraine, who's referring solely to the violation of the rights of our citizens. On the one hand, we're talking about the need to ensure that peasants can implement their milk, their production; on the other hand, we don't give in law mechanisms to ensure that this area works. That's why we're not talking about accusations right now. We're talking about adopting quality laws with you. And in those colleagues who have warnings or suggestions or a desire to participate in the legislative work, that right arises from the moment we support the President's veto. Then we have the right to legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u50	Thank you. One last question. The Fatherland faction, Blackwolf. We've got a minute, we won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u51	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko and do not comment to the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u52	John Kirilenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u53	Dear Yuri Romanovich, how will you respond to such facts? The cow’s head in Ukraine has fallen to a critical limit. The peasants are desperate to cut out the last one. Remember, 82 percent of milk is a population farm. That's the first one. Starting in the past year, imports of dairy products amounted to $250 million. We don't have any money to go to? We import dairy products. Third. You've seen for yourself what's going on. Four. The benefits that existed after 10 years of VAT for dairy production were cancelled. Prices went down even more. You say the Agrarian Fund has no right to buy dairy. Five years ago, the State Reserve purchased oil, during a period of mass milk production. Yuri Romanovich, we need this law, we're gonna beat the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u54	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. I know you as really one of the best professionals in the agrarian sector. And thank you very much for your initiatives, for your suggestions, both professionally and professionally. But I want to pay your attention, and I'm sure you'll agree that this law is not perfect. And I invite you, as an expert, really an expert in this field, to engage in active norm-making when it comes to drafting a new law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u55	Have a seat. The word is given to the Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Also on January 10, 2013, the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations discussed this law with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Let me remind you that the purpose of this law was to improve the State support mechanism for an agro-industry complex to ensure access to the dairy product group of all types of people, regardless of the level of their monetary income. First, it was suggested that milk and milk products should be taken to price - regulating objects that would provide a legally sound control mechanism. And these are the norms in the European Union. The other one. Ban milk production without properly documented documents. Limit the activities of intermediate structures that unjustifiably increase the price of milk and milk products. Thus, after considering the causes of the veto, members of the committee did not come to a clear conclusion by completely sharing concerns about the threats posed by the formation of the Agrarian Fund of the State Intervention Fund regarding milk and dairy products, some of its comments sparked a heated discussion. Having different political preferences, all members of the committee agreed that the market in milk and milk products needed State intervention. The market needs a law that clearly regulates the work of the chain "producer-producer-trade network" because, according to practice, only two chains that produce nothing work with a positive balance, namely: a broker and a trading network. For the Agrarian Fund to be an institution that does financial and freight interventions in the internal market, i.e. buys or implements surpluses, is not subject to regulation of this law. However, the lack of State control in this area has led to the creation of a whole clan of speculators who regulate purchasing prices, lowering them so that peasants become uncomfortable to support cows, and annually in Ukraine they cut out 70 to 80,000 cows or 200 cows a day. With a view to remedying this situation, we insist on banning businesses of wholesale and retail trade, processing companies, manufacturing companies, and manufacturing organizations, buying milk and dairy products from suppliers without written contracts. Thus, taking into account the ambiguous position of the committee members, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a final decision on the matter in the Supreme Council. And as the author of this bill would ask, Sir Vladimir Vasilovich, in the absence of a vote of 226 on the rejection of this law, to put the second question to the vote on the return of this law to the committee for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u57	Is there a question for the deputies? Please sign up, five minutes. Freedom Union, Kyda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u58	Thank you. Please give the floor to Igor Sabia, deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u59	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, District 189. Grigory Mikolaiovich, I'm very interested, you've said it so well. Why was not all of this taken into account in the preliminary consideration of the bill when it was adopted? Was it specifically done, or was it once again cheap populism? We believe that it is necessary to go back and finalize this bill in order for the peasants to finally receive State support from, at least, a minimum of State support from the State. To destroy corruption schemes and constant monopolistic conspiracies among processors on milk prices. All these mediocre schemes are to be destroyed. And there have to be contracts. And it's supposed to go not to the big producers, but directly to the people, to the peasants. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u60	The Fatherland faction, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u61	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u62	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I do not want to go to the head of the committee and not to the author of the bill, but now to address the billionaire MPs and millionaires who went to the Ukrainian villages, who cried bitterly, put their hands on their hearts and said, "Dear Ukrainian peasants, we have come to you to swear on behalf of the President of the Party of the Regions that, from the moment you vote for us, we will begin to defend you poor, unhappy, abandoned." I was at dozens of such meetings when representatives of the Party of Regions said that they would finally help the Ukrainian village. That milk will not be bought as cheap as water, but it will be purchased at the prices that Ukrainian peasants deserve. And so the Ukrainian peasant was looking forward to one of the first decisions of the President, which is a very clear right law in support of the Ukrainian village. We demand a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u64	Please. Any questions? Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the first speaker had a question. I want to answer to the Sabia People's Deputy that, if a decision is taken by the Supreme Council, then together we will be able to take into account the proposals that you have, in order to form a more perfect law that could bring about all the participants in this important process, including it could be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u66	Thank you. It's a cornered, Vitalia Callore faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head! Corner, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina. I have a question for Grigori Mikolaiovich, which is, is there any alternative bills to this bill now, so that we can look at them on the agrarian committee? But before that, I did have a question before Yuri about it, because we can't see the President in Parliament, so there was a question, maybe he can answer for it at all. Is it true that today the bracelet of fifty peasants in Poltavščina, the Cherkščinas, gives milk and buys all the water at 9:60 a.m. in the store? And should milk tin be settled today, in their opinion? We absolutely agree that this should not be the subject of price regulation and include a corrupt scheme related to the Agrarian Fund. But all of us today should think that today the vast majority of the village live on milk. They raise and teach their children for this money, they live in a farm, and they have no other job. So this is a very important question, and we think we should go back to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u68	Dear Taras Viktorovich, thank you for asking. Yes, there are now two bills registered that are already on our committee, and they will be considered as soon as possible at the committee meeting. And if this bill is returned, all these three bills can be combined and we are being worked on in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u69	Fatherland faction, Brigine. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u70	Brigitte, Fatherland faction. Please give my word to my colleague, Mikola Kucheruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u71	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I understand that milk is irrelevant to you because you don't know its price because you don't know the price of that peasant work. But I fully support our colleagues who really say that in the village, like I'm a major, they live only on it. Now the president says that the processing costs are being washed away. But if you'll excuse me, where does the money that the VAT was from milk processing go? Why aren't they here now? Why don't you at least increase the price for ordinary peasants? Why is there no answer? Dear professionals, you take the lead and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u73	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u74	Thank you. In fact, I take it, there was more support in the presentation about the need for a settlement of the issue. And I thank my colleague very much for supporting this issue, for taking your suggestions into account when working on the committee on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u75	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. According to part of article 135 of the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to reject the entire Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture on the regulation of purchase prices for milk. Please vote. [[16:54:17]] For-126 Against – 113, held – 36, did not vote – 117. There's a total of 392. The chairman of the committee suggested that the law be sent to the committee for further work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u76	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The question is: Does this law need to be done? It is necessary, but with the addition that it should be more severe, because people do not receive massive amounts for their milk supply, and they must live and raise their children at this cost. And all of these are answered: settle the questions in the courts. If you follow that logic, you need people to get bread, buy cars, food, including the same milk with a 7-10-day pay-as-you-go. So the suggestion is: understanding that the law will now be rejected, entrusting the committee to develop this law, to introduce it into a new edition, and people should get the money. That's all they have to live for. Otherwise, such a law will be passed before the next election. And let's not show cynicism here and tell each other stories. Before the elections, people were voted on and enlisted support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to address my colleagues. We understand that there is a regulation. If we put the veto to the vote now and we don't get 300 votes, the law will be rejected and it won't go to the committee. I'm asking you, let's vote on a second proposal, for bringing the bill back to the committee, that's what the colleagues said. It's really going to have to be worked out, it's going to be the best way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on this bill to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:57:09]] For 133 Against 20, held – 78, not voted – 159. Based on Hannah Herman's vote, on motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u79	Vladimir Vasilovich, today we have done a very sad thing because instead of taking care of the result and taking care of the peasant and listening to the Presidium. [[B in m in s a l in]] to suggest that this law should be directed to the committee, we went along the way, you know, to those to whom the opposition proposed and as a result buried this law and harmed the peasants. I propose to go back to the vote and direct this bill to the committee. The village needs him very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u80	Yuri Miroshnichenko, what are the suggestions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u81	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm in a rather delicate situation, as you understand. On the one hand, I have a clear position of president, which is that we need to prepare a system-wide new bill. Moreover, there are already two bills on the committee. Nothing will change significantly if we now support the President's proposal and allow the committee, taking into account the standards that were, the good standards that were already in the bill, to take them into account and to prepare a system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u82	On the basis of the vote, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u83	I'm addressing the majority that's in this room. Each of you who has failed this law is responsible for our peasants living as beggars. I understand that for you the price of milk, you don't even know what the price of milk is today, from the bracelet of 50 in Poltavska to two bracelets of 20 copies in Chernigovina. Milk is not paid for months, and milk income is the only income in the family. I'm talking to MPs who have millions, cars, houses: let's think about the simple people you're all sitting here with. Therefore, the law must be voted on, whether in a new edition or for further work. Because before the election, everyone said that you thought about them, and after the election, everyone forgot. Millions of Ukrainian peasants are now looking at you and disrespecting your decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u84	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Nothing's lost. I'm asking you, Supreme Council, we're out of principle, always right. And now we're going to take 400 votes in the hall. Send a draft to the base committee immediately and put the bill to the vote in two weeks. There are three positions to change everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting this motion to the vote: to put the law on the committee for further consideration. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:01:09]] For 285 Against 0. We're holding on to the 31st. They didn't vote 78. It's 394. The factions, please. Region Party – 158, Fatherland – 79, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 32, Ukrainian Company – 0, Postfaction – 16. Decision taken. On the basis of the vote, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The fact that this law had to be passed is obvious. But I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the fact that today the real support of the peasant will only be complete if we today strictly control the prices of the oil products that come to the Ukrainian village. When we control hard prices for mineral fertilizers, prices for technology, and so we will provide comprehensive assistance to the peasant. What he survives is the result of 20-year-old politics, abuse and destruction of the Ukrainian village. And we rejoice that today we have the right to survive the Ukrainian peasant?Oh, my God! And the fact that the library is being destroyed today, there are no hospitals, there are no field office, there are no obstetrics, there are outpatients, there are no hospitals, there are no hospitals, there are no hospitals, there's no hospitals, there's no hospitals, there's no hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, there's hospitals, And you and I must remember that this will definitely benefit the oligarchs, raise the price of milk products for the population of Ukraine. This will surely result in much more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u87	On the grounds of the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we have now voted and it is very important to explain why the strike party has held up. My colleagues who supported this bill. There's a new bill that regulates the price of milk, which includes the drafters of the bill and the MPs of "The Fatherland" and the deputies of "The Strike," and the MPs of "Freedom." When we go back to this bill, we're going back to the model where the Agrarian Fund should intervene to support that price. We're going back to a corrupt scheme that shouldn't work. In the previous year, the price of $2.20 a liter of milk was regulated. We have to go back to it, add inflation index, and the peasants will be satisfied. We do not need to go back to the fact that it will not work again and will again keep the corruption component inside us. And that's why we want to vote for a new absolute law that will protect the interests of citizens rather than defend corruption schemes for the greater interests of peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u89	We have considered the question. Here's the question: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 05.10.2012. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, of course, that we had a little emotional consideration of the previous bill and heard neither my arguments nor the arguments that Taras Kutov just made. Because if we're talking about the quality of the laws, there was nothing wrong with the initiatives that are already registered in the Supreme Council, which were good in this law, and this law was good in some part, but in some parts it was very, very bad. That is what the President and those who commented on the law stressed. Because sometimes it turns out that for good reasons we're taking our way to a completely different place, to hell. But at the same time, I'm absolutely convinced of the qualifications of our committee colleagues, and I think they'll figure it out and those good intentions will be able to implement the legislative initiative, which will be the only one that will be submitted to the Supreme Council. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act (Registration No. 0990) adopted by the Supreme Council on 18 September 2012 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First of all, the law provides for amendments to the Labour Protection Act, replacing the words "central authority of the executive branch in charge of labour protection" with the words "central authority of the executive branch that implements state policy in the field of labour protection." In this way, the central executive authority is empowered to carry out regulatory activities and coordinate the work of ministries, other central executive bodies, which are not in line with the laws "For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" and "For the central executive authorities." Moreover, according to the Act on Central Executive Authorities, the central authority that ensures the formation of the state in one or more of the areas defined by the President of Ukraine is the Ministry, which determines the priorities of development and provides for regulatory regulation. It's different. Apart from the law, the applicable rules of the Labour Protection Act have been left out, which define the separate powers of State labour protection authorities and executive authorities to oversee the protection of work, i.e. in the law itself, there is a contradiction of the concept. The absence of a comprehensive solution to the issue of the State Labour Protection Authority in part of the identification of the relevant central executive authorities in practice will complicate the proper regulation in this area. In this regard, the President made some adjustments to improve the quality of this law. But, dear colleagues, there was a strange situation. We don't have a table, so we don't have a committee amendment for which we have to vote. So it's probably going to be very difficult for me to ask you to make an undrafted amendment. I therefore propose that we postpone consideration of this issue by asking the committee to formulate this amendment. And then we'll vote for her in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u91	The question is to the reporter? I can't see. I can't see. Let's support and remove this question and send it to the committee for processing. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. I'll give you a motive. [[17:08:26]] For-161 Please, head of the committee, Cibenko Petr Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Well, I think it's the right thing to do, not get the right number of votes, and that's why. This is a little bit different. The problem that existed in the Pay for Work Act, and it did exist and tried to regulate it by Bill No. 0990. It is already regulated by another legislative act. And then this document just has to be rejected. She was. But it's regulated by another piece of legislation. I mean, she's not here right now. And this bill really needs to be rejected. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u93	Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! I'm reporting to the President's veto. Unfortunately, I would like to remind you that it has been several plenary weeks since the Supreme Council's seventh call, and in fact every plenary week has provided for the President's veto. I don't object to the arguments presented by our colleague Zibank, but I think the committee should be commenting on this proposal, because the committee was looking at this issue. And if he gives us objective information that this issue is already settled, and we're just looking at the President's veto late, we won't have a problem if we reject that law. The President won't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u95	Rosenko, Vitaly Cliché's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u96	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Clicko faction. Yuri Romanovich, I'm addressing you. What Peter Stepanovich just said is the position of the Committee on Social Policy. And this bill and the President's veto have lost all meaning. Because, indeed, the previous Supreme Council, not yet our Supreme Council, has taken these proposals into account in other bills signed by the President. So you don't have to invent anything. We're on our way. Let's put the President's veto to a vote. We reject this bill, and nothing bad will happen in the country, and we will reverse the decision that has already lost both relevance and any meaning.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u97	Thank you for your comment. But, dear colleagues, for ethical reasons, you understand that a representative of the President cannot report the position of the committee. That's why I brought you up to date with the arguments that the President of Ukraine made when he received this bill, and he returned the bill with a note to the Supreme Council, but the Supreme Council passed another bill. I think now we're going to listen to a report by the committee head or a committee representative and we're going to make a decision. Once again, the President will not object if we solve this problem in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u98	Thank you, have a seat. Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In accordance with article 133 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules and the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on Social Policy and Work reviewed Presidential proposals for the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act (Registration No. 0990). We report that the law provides for a division of powers in the field of labour protection between the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of state policies in the field of labour protection and the central executive authority, which implements state policies in the field of labour protection. On October 5, 2012, the law was returned with proposals from the President. According to the President of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 September 2012, the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act cannot be signed because its positions do not comply with the Ukrainian Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Central Executive Authorities. This applies, in particular, to the changes to paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 33 of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act, which confers upon the central executive authority the powers to carry out regulatory activities: the delimitation and approval of rules, regulations, instructions and other legal and regulatory provisions for the protection of work or changes thereto, the coordination of the work of ministries, other central authorities. However, in view of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated by the responsibility of ministries since 16 October 2012 (No.5459). By the way, the author was Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. This issue has already been settled. In other words, the problem really existed at a time when the law was passed. But as soon as the President's veto was imposed, another law was passed that settled the problem. As a result, the committee at its meeting considered the situation and decided to reject Law 0990. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u100	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. According to article 135, part one, of the Rules, I am voting on a motion to reject the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act as a whole. Please vote. [[17:15:21]] For-153 Anti - 19. It's been held up to 95. There was no vote – 120. It's a total of 387. The factions. Region Party - 145, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 6. Shall we consider breaking the veto? I'm betting on voting under this law to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:16:13]] For-58 Against 39. Abstaining is 121. There was no vote of 167. The law is rejected. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislation on Restrictions on the Use of Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies is being considered with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 02.11.2012. Representative of President Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 16 October 2012 the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies (registration number 0989) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First of all, the law provides for changes to the basics of Ukrainian health legislation on the settlement of issues related to the application of auxiliary reproductive technologies. It uses such terms as "replacement surrogate mother", "genetic connection of a child with a surrogate mother", "replacement surrogate motherhood method", "assistant reproductive technology". However, the definition of these terms does not contain any law or existing standards of health legislation. Secondly, the law provides that the procedure for dealing with the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies for a woman over 51 years of age, as well as the procedure for their application and the list of documents submitted by persons for their application, shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, an important drafting of the health - protection framework for the use of artificial fertilization is being carried out in an order established by the central executive body in the field of health. This creates internal competition between the rules of one article on the subject, which sets out how to apply auxiliary reproductive technologies. And that's why we have a contradiction: one law will say that the Cabinet of Ministers should do this, and another law will say that it should be done by the Ministry of Profile. Thirdly, the law does not determine the number of circumstances in which women are opposed to the use of such technologies, and the age of the woman from whom such auxiliary reproductive technologies can be applied. Such an approach is not in line with the principles of legal certainty or ambiguity. As a result, the application of the relevant rules and the unlimited treatment of them may not be the same. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u102	Is there a question for the deputies? You don't? Have a seat, thank you. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the head of the subcommittee on family, youth policy, sports, and tourism, Zuk Mikoli Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u103	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Mikola Jouk, faction of the Party of Regions, 129 constituency, Mikolayivsk district. Dear colleagues, allow me to make a statement to the decision of our committee of profile. The purpose of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislation on the Limitation of the Use of Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies is to protect children's rights through the legislative introduction of restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies, including through the use of these technologies by foreign citizens. On October 16, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the bill in a second reading and adopted it as a whole. On November 2, 2012, the President of Ukraine returned the Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine on restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies with a view to rejecting it. The President believes that the law can lead to violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens who are subject to auxiliary reproductive technologies, and therefore the law cannot be upheld. The President's proposal is a valid one, but given the importance of sending out measures to protect the rights of children born as a result of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies, which are directed to this law, he suggests not rejecting it, but working on taking into account the comments of the Head of State. The Committee considers it inappropriate to reject the law, since the introduction of restrictions on women’s rights to use auxiliary reproductive technologies to protect their health and, above all, to protect their child’s rights to be born healthy and to have parents who can raise them. In addition, the prohibition of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies by alternative surrogacy for nationals of a country in which such a method is prohibited by law is caused by the fact that children born as a result of the use of these technologies are outside the legal field of both Ukraine and the countries of their parents. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the prescribed law be amended with the proposals of the President of Ukraine to work with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on family, youth policy, sport and tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u104	The question is to the reporter? None. Yes, please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u105	Dear reporter, would you please tell me if the opinion of the church and religious organizations is taken into account in the drafting of such bills? And can we, if not taken into account, put in place such practices in this Parliament so that interfractional association with the expansion and protection of freedom of conscience can act as an expert in this situation? Because the opinion of the church and religious organizations in this matter is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u106	Thank you for asking. Thank you for asking. In fact, what you said was just discussed on our committee and all the experts, including the public organizations that were present at the committee meeting, said that it was necessary to work on it, because there were a lot of comments in this bill. Therefore, we will also take into account if it is supported by the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u107	Sit down, thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. According to article 135, part one, of the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to reject the whole Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies. Please vote. [[17:23:59]] For-152. Against zero, with 122, there was no vote of 110, only 384. I'm betting on the vote to beat the veto of the President of Ukraine under this law. Please vote. [[17:24:34]] For-67 Against 35, held – 130, not voted – 153, total - 385. The law is rejected. It's a proposal: a third decision to try. To amend this law to the committee for further work. Please vote. [[17:25:36]] For-76 Against 7, holding – 125, not voting – 177. The decision is not taken. The factions. The law is rejected. Region Party 9, Fatherland 6, Vitaly Klicka, 26, Freedom, 32, Company 0, Postfaction, 3rd. Here's the question: a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the anti-constitutional review of the will of the Ukrainian people in the 2012 parliamentary elections. The committee did not consider the matter. Registration number 2568. What will be the suggestions? Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u108	Dear Mr. Head! The very name of this document has already given rise to conclusions. If it is a commission of inquiry, it should first make an investigation and then make conclusions later. In the very name of the draft document, conclusions have already been drawn, as for the Bolsheviks: the conclusions of the committee are already known. I don't want a paper like that to be considered in this room at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u109	I ask you to sign up to discuss this matter. Please sign up. Unmerciful, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u110	Please pass the word to Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u111	Let's give it to Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u112	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to remind you that Parliament has voted on the schedule for this week, according to which the adoption of two decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the commission of inquiry was included in the schedule. First decision to set up an investigative commission to falsify the elections in 2012 and unlawfully deprive the mandates of individual Ukrainian national deputies. In that case, if our political opponents do not support what needs to be fought for the honest will of the Ukrainians, they may not vote in favour of this decision, regardless of the fact that the President of Ukraine, who is the leader of their party worldwide, has promised that he will deal with these abuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u114	..with the abuses that were at and after the elections. The second decree was that there are two Ukrainian citizens in the House of Parliament who, without legal grounds, exercise the right of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and who did not take the oath of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, are the citizens of Tobalov who were absent. Therefore, we need to take the oath of Ukraine’s new national deputies, and we need the commission of inquiry to establish the absence of these deputies in the Parliamentary Chamber, to transfer the material to the Central Electoral Commission, so that there will be two parliamentary deputies. So we're going to consider the issue of both election offences and the TSC on the table, and that's included in the schedule, and that's what we agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u115	Thank you. Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u116	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this decision, the establishment of a commission, will not solve the main issue, the question of how to remove the oligarchic capital from the election, which initially seeks to falsify the elections, and no democracy is involved. I'm very surprised how the question of honest will is resolved, of honest will, of those who submit these projects, while millions of dollars were included in the party lists of their parties. And today there are MPs who bought these seats from these so-called leaders. Therefore, the issue today is completely different, there is a need to change the political system, and there must be changes in approaches that would not allow oligarchic capital today to actually manage this process and deprive the people of the choice of reality. And one more moment. I further reaffirm that the faction of communists now requires the lifting of pension reform, the lifting of medical reform and the payment of salaries, which has been detained and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u117	A party of regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u118	Dear friends, we've noticed that once the word "election" is heard in the hall, the opposition is very active. Less active opposition when it comes to the interests of the people. And I'd like to go to the leader of the Fatherland faction and tell him that he's obviously not listening carefully, because it's not about not considering the substance of the matter, it's about correctly formulating the name of the project in the document itself, which should not have predetermined the conclusions of the commission. We need to work properly, without undue emotion, Arsenius Petrovich, calmly and justly. And it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u119	Blackyakov, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u120	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u121	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u122	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. The Society, at this time of the creation of such a temporary commission of inquiry, is justified, necessary and, for now, is essentially the only one that, from the end of the election, will give us the opportunity, first, to call, and secondly, to go to the punishment of forgers. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] This is particularly important in the context that I received an open letter today from the employees of the Luhansk district television company, where they point to numerous violations by Ephraim, the Rodion of Miroshnik, who simply trampled freedom of speech even in those regions that they considered to be their own control. Today, the creation of such a temporary commission of inquiry is an urgent need of time and an opportunity to punish those forgers who want to hide from the end of the election problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u123	Vitaly Klitschka, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u124	Paul Rosenko, hit. Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u125	Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u126	This question is extremely important and should be considered in this room. In fact, no oath was made to the Ukrainian people. They made a secret oath to the lair, called the majority. It's a political party and it's personal to the President. A large number of Ukrainians have no right to visit city councils. She's being thrown out of the clerks' offices. And there's like two MPs here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u127	They've turned off the microphone, I say again. You keep an eye on the agenda, that's the second question and the second commission. I'll give you my word later. Do we have a deal? Let's make it about how it's supposed to be. Please. Hanna Mikolayevna Herman made her offer. Please, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, please. You're the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u128	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, no matter what's in the Party of Regions, but on your offer, I can still respond. If you're willing to vote in favour of this order, and you've told me that you have a name in your eye for what's included here: the facts of the anti-constitutional review of will expression. Then I suggest you as a compromise: we clean up the word "anti-constitutional review," we write "illegal review." And so it is not so important for us to have the name, but it is important for the commission to start working, and that our obligations to the people of Ukraine and to the international community regarding the establishment of justice in the electoral process be fulfilled. So let's go vote under these circumstances. Let me out to the rostrum, I'll report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u129	It's a matter of examining the facts of the review. Did you remove the anti-constitutional? Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u130	Dear Mr. Head, we need to remove any definition at all and leave only the word "review" and the commission of inquiry will answer the question whether it was legal or illegal; whether it was anti-constitutional or anti-constitutional. You don't have to define ahead of time before the commission of inquiry starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u131	Yeah, what's the offer because I can't hear anything here? Is there any suggestion to be determined by a reduced procedure to address this issue? Short cut. I'll bet you a vote. Deputies, please prepare. The proposal to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:37:32]] For a hundred and 114, held – 10, not a vote – 108. It's a total of 388. Decision taken. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Please report. Short-term. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u132	Give the chapel a word, if you please. Caplin asked for a word, let him speak, and then I'll speak. Well, a man asked for a minute. They asked you to give them your word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Capplin, you come here, you come for me for 30 seconds, and then I'll come after you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u133	Mr. Speaker, I would like to conclude and remind you that you are not the director of the Supreme Council, you are the same MP, the same citizen as all of us. And I'd like to finish. The tabals did not take an oath to the Ukrainian people; they swore an oath to Yanukovic and the majority. First. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u134	Turn on the microphone. Please report by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u135	Honorable Members of Parliament! There have been parliamentary elections in Ukraine, and there is a result in these parliamentary elections. In addition to receiving more than half of Ukraine's support, President Yanukovic lost control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And these are the results of these elections. (Front) [[Applause]] But in addition, the elections and elections were followed by a review of the elections, both by the authorities and by the law enforcement system and by the so - called courts, and more specifically by corrupt judges, who, under the direction of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, denied mandates in the five districts of elected deputies, which became the subject of special attention not only in Ukraine but also abroad. But the authorities went on and decided to disqualify the two deputies who are here in the Parliamentary Hall because this removal is unconstitutional, this is Mr. Baloga and this is Mr. Dombrowski. And the third was Yulia’s lawyer, Timoshenko, Sergey Vlasenko, who was deprived of a court mandate solely for political reasons. We believe that an investigative commission should be set up in Parliament to investigate the activities of every member of the TVC, every member of the District Electoral Commission, every prosecutor, every militiaman, judge, every person who stole votes from Ukrainians. And this commission will bring to the new Attorney General's Office a report on the criminalization of all the thieves who stole the votes. They're thieves. A thief, as we know, should be in prison. It's in Russian for the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u136	By the name of everyone to hear it. Read the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u137	Give me the microphone, although I can do it without the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u138	Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u139	In order not to worry about the name, we suggest you call it "anti-constitutional" and replace it with "illegal" if you don't like it. Well, then we'll write the word "opposite view." Where the election results were established. I understand you're in opposition. Please calm down. As for the results of the elections that have been established, which have been determined according to the law, we do not need to investigate them. Really? The parliamentary commission of inquiry should only deal with the illegal outcome of the elections. That's what she's after. So we suggest that you remove the word "anti-constitutional," and we're ready to call it "opposite review of the results of the will."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u140	Please, Hanna Herman. Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u141	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, you must. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Arsenija Petrovich, if you think you can insult journalists with carrots, talk here and throw the lines at my address my colleagues won't allow. So I ask you to behave properly, to teach yourself not to be excessive and to respect all the people and all the deputies, because you are neither the wisest nor the best. All we're asking is to remove the evaluation judgements to say is simply review, and if the commission of inquiry decides that it was illegal or illegal or unconstitutional, then we'll talk about it. Now we just have to talk about looking at the facts, and the follow-up committee will come to a conclusion. This is absolutely fair, Arsenija Petrovich, the statement and I ask you to leave my irony and my disdain for your wife.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u142	Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u143	Dear Anna Mikolayevna, you are such a beautiful and intelligent woman, I think President Janukovic is grieving in his administration for you. [[Applause]] Dear friends! There is an offer: To move from funny conversations to making a serious decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u144	Have a seat, thank you. There's an offer: to register two deputies -- for two -- against factions. Please sign up. And the committee wasn't looking, but I told you all. I told you everything at first. Yes, Koleschenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u145	Only in Russian. Dear colleagues! Thank you neo-fascists for their support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear voters, we see another political show called “The Rabbits destroy the democracy and legal awareness of our people”. For everyone, it is obvious and clear that the name of the commission of inquiry is not entitled to indicate the fact that it has already been resolved. That's the first one. Any respectable lawyer knows that a fact must be established in order to speak of something or to claim something. The Supreme Council is not authorized to administer justice, especially if I ate carrots like rabbits every day, I would not be allowed to do that either. That's the first one. Second. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation, which is the law for all: both for beautiful deputies and for the unbelievably handsome, and for those who love carrots. No documents may be voted on. Therefore, the original version is not acceptable by definition, and in order for us to really be able to understand for the Ukrainian people, not for the sake of the rabbits, we need to get a normal document, which clearly, from the point of view of the law, contains the name of the commission, its purpose and its purpose. And then, of course, we can vote for her because she's very important. Once again, however, the Rules prohibit the voting for hearing documents without a specific document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u146	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u147	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u148	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, the idea of opposition is simple and understandable. If we forget today how the elections took place in five districts, where our colleagues, like us national deputies, are not in this session room, we have nothing to do here in Parliament and in the next election. The members of the commission who suddenly and insolently copied the results of the election and today they go and say, "We took the money, we worked properly. We're showing an example in rural areas of how to make money." If judges who have taken the choice of people in the Kyiv region, in the Cherkas region, or in the Mikolai region are now boasting that they have been promoted for falsifying elections, can we miss it? If in the situation with Vlasenko, where several deputies decided that they would do such a service to the President and set a precedent that any MP without a decision by most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for what he or she said was wrong, or wrongly thought that they could deprive the mandate, can we miss it? I would like to remind you that article 81 of the Constitution has motivated us to do so all our lives in the Ukrainian Parliament. If we have claims against the MP, I apologize if there is a situation: the MP died without the decision of the Supreme Council, we have never thrown away a member of the Supreme Council, who was elected by the Ukrainian people. A terrible precedent has been created when every human is created. Each MP is subject to a domestic sword, monitored, listened to, and at some specific moment may be removed without asking who. Therefore, as an opposition, we generally insist that everyone who was involved in falsifying the elections of Ukrainian citizens should be held accountable. It's the right of the opposition to create an investigative commission, and I'm sure there will be a time when those people who forged people's elections will answer to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u150	Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Heroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u151	Vital Klitschka Faction, Irina Heratschenko. Dear Mr. Head, I must say that with all due respect to you, you are equal among equals and the same MPs as all the members of the strike faction. And so we're protesting, we're protesting that our colleague, Sergey Kaplin, has taken the word. It is his right to speak on the subject that he considers necessary, because so far the Ukrainian Parliament is a place for discussion, and he has the right to express his position. As far as the commission is concerned, it is essential. Here is Foreign Minister Leonid Kojar, and he can confirm to his colleagues in the Party of Regions that the question of election, more faithfully, falsification of the elections in the five districts is the one that can just stand at the hurdle of Ukraine’s signing of the Association Agreement in November 2013. What's more, I want to remind all of us that the majority factions in the last Parliament voted for a billion dollars to install Webcams in areas where we were supposed to track voices like that. And so far, we have not followed up on this corrupt scheme that has benefited from billions of dollars in five districts that have not yet counted the votes. And for 30 seconds, I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Capplin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u152	It's not a word. Turn off the phone. The word is not passed, read the Rules. Go read the Rules; the word is not passed on! So you want the Rules, and you want the way you want them. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u153	Dear colleagues! On the Conciliation Council, I agreed on behalf of the faction that we are “good” for the establishment of this commission and have delegated our comrade to the commission. But I am pessimistic about the possibility of obtaining results from an investigation conducted by this commission. I'd like us to study the following today. In 20 years of independent Ukraine, we developed traditional and systemic violations during the elections. The so-called democracy for years of independence has actively used voter bribery, blackmail and intimidation, helicopters, punchcards, home voting, banning voting for veterans. They call for objectivity, respectable colleagues, today those who, and require an objective investigation, those who form lists and sell places on their lists. How will they investigate? Or at first they have sold the soul of the devil instead of doing the will of the electorate. The objectivity is discussed by those who have bribed members of the commissions in the majority districts, whether in the East or in the West. That's true, and that's the truth to be considered. When it comes to the responsibility of those who have taken these funds for listing and forming future corruption within the Supreme Council. I would like to reiterate the principled position of the faction of the Company. Today, we demand that the Supreme Council respond first by deciding to abolish pension reform and to restore the retirement age of women to 55 years of retirement, for men to 60 years. We are demanding today that medical reform be lifted. As well as pay wages today. The payment of salary in a billion dollars alone makes it possible for 300 million people to benefit from the Pension Fund, 150 million from local budgets. This will be a real contribution from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u154	The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Review of the will of the Ukrainian People in the 2012 parliamentary elections (No. 2568). Please vote. [[17:55:08]] For-166 The decree of the Supreme Council has been adopted. [[Applause]] The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 87, Vitalia Klicka Hit 33, Freedom 30, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 13. Decision taken. On the basis of the vote, Baby. You, too. And I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u155	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I have voted personally to create this commission. Because I think that the parliamentary elections that took place last year were forged, they don't reflect the attitude of the citizens. Because the vast majority of Ukrainians are against power. And in Parliament, we have the majority of what we have. But I would like, Vladimir Vasilovich, to address you personally, among the members of the commission that are indicated, there is no non-faulty MP. I want to remind the initiators of this decree, in Parliament, two dozen non-faction deputies. You took away our right to discuss drafts, you took away our right to be represented on committees, you took away our right to work on committees. I want to remind you that there is a Constitution that provides for equal rights for all national MPs. As a non-fractional MP and hopefully supported by my colleagues, we are protesting against discrimination against the rights of non-members.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u156	Please, Rudzkowski, and then Kaplinov on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all the members of the commission who have now joined the commission of inquiry. We need to consider not unilaterally the abuse that was done during the election campaign. I'm also asking, Vladimir Vasilovich, that we ask a question before the commission of inquiry, that the commission of inquiry investigate the abuse during the electoral process in the 11th constituency, everything that happened and how it happened, and on 71 constituencies in Zakartat, where houses were burned and money distributed, and they intimidated people. I want all these questions investigated and brought to justice by the Supreme Council because abuses are in different regions. And those who have done so must bear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u158	Capplin, please, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u159	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I want you to note that not only did you take the speech of a national MP, you took the right to express your position as a national deputy from the spiritual capital of Ukraine, from Poltava. That's the first one. The other one. I want to talk to all the ordinary Ukrainian people. This year you have taken and stolen the right to have a decent, adequate, pragmatic, pro-Ukrainian, intelligent parliament. Instead, the President's Administration appointed the so-called majority of those who voted in favour of pension reform, and now women cannot retire, will die at work; under the Tax Code, they have destroyed virtually small and medium-sized businesses and many other laws that are generally incorporated into the Party of Regions program called genocide over the Ukrainian people. In addition, the Communists who had gone there somehow escaped.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u160	Please, just a minute. Bondar's national deputy and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u161	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Masterful colleagues! I also voted in favour of this draft decision, for I consider it to be a democratic person who needs to be objectively and objectively sum up the vote. I realize that there was an extremely tense situation in every district. I'm still in the district, trying to get a copy of the videos that were posted to the district television company, and I'm not being asked who was paying for them, these videos, they're not giving them. I mean, the situation was really tense. But once again, I want to support here, there are thoughts that were heard that there is no need to be prejudiced about putting, in the titles there already write the results of the commission's work, and the commission has to objectively give names, who did what they did, what they ended up doing, and hand over relevant materials for consideration to the Supreme Council. And then we'll fix them if we see how the crimes are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m1.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our session. Thank you all for your work!
