ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:07:15]] There were 375 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! We have the birthday of the National Deputies today. Today Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok was born. [[Applause]] Let's welcome him. And Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening was born. Let's welcome Vladimir Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] I think it's a greeting for Vladimir Mikolaiovich. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking for your attention. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is with the deputies. I had a conversation with the faction leaders. We need to consider very serious questions today. So we agreed with the faction leaders that I would announce a 30-minute recess so that we could agree on the order of today's meeting. That's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And the faction leaders, please come into the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down and have your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Your attention, please. I'll make an announcement. Give the director a minute of the faction Arsenia Petrovich Yatzenyuku word. And we'll make a decision, we'll vote. I'm asking you to listen. The Conciliation Board of Faction Managers makes a proposal to the Supreme Council. First. To include in the agenda today the bill on the prosecutor's office number 3542 and 3542-1. That's the first question we're going to have to vote on right now. The other one. To continue consultations on the agenda of today's session and to continue for 16 hours the session of the Supreme Council and to present the first laws of the Euro-Integration Package for consideration. These are four bills for the treatment of convicted persons abroad, these are bills for the prosecution (3541 and 3541-1), these are amendments to electoral legislation (laws 3396 and 3396-1). Do you understand? Please turn on Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk's microphone. If you'll excuse me, you've got a minute. Then I'm all the faction leaders. Please, the faction leaders are asking for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u3	Honorable Members of Parliament! The historic moment is whether or not Ukraine will sign a treaty with the European Union. We claim to be opposition. We're willing to make any compromises in order for Ukraine to sign a treaty, which requires the release of Julia Timoshenko. We offered a package of three decisions. First. Adoption of the bill in the first reading on the release of Yulia Timoshenko, introduced by the national deputy of Labunsk. The other one. Adoption in the first reading of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. And the third. Adoption in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. We propose to adopt these three bills immediately. In the shortest terms, we can work on them, and up to 18, we can adopt these three laws in the second reading and in general. The President of Ukraine will now meet with the mission of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u4	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u5	Then the head of Parliament will have a meeting at three o’clock. We await the political decision of the President of Ukraine, the opposition has just declared: we are ready to support all the bills. Now this must be said by the Party of Regions and President Yanukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u6	Vitaly Klitschka Faction, you have a minute. National MP, faction manager, Vitaly Klitschko. And then Oleg Pullibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u7	I want, honourable Members, to thank, first of all, the thousands of citizens who have now come under the walls of the Supreme Council to express their position regarding Euro-integration. We are confident that Ukraine should become a European country. It's not enough to just declare it -- you have to take steps to do it. And we understand that so far, much depends, and the Party of Regions cannot make a personal decision, waiting for the results of the conversation that is now taking place by President Yanukovich with the Cox-Kwasniew mission. We hope that all the laws will be voted on, and the strike party will vote in favour of all the bills relating to European integration, and we will be able to make the association agreement signed. If it is torn down, the full responsibility lies with the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u8	"Freedom" faction, named Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u9	God, how nice! There are no Communists in Parliament! It's easier to breathe!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u10	This is not the order of the day, Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u11	All very much, Volodymyr Vasilovich, on a daily basis, because before 7 November, the day of the bloody Yellow Revolution was "a beautiful day of the calendar." But today, society, we have a historical responsibility, before each of us. We can make this day not "a beautiful day of calendar," but a day in the calendar of sky and wheat, the day when we vote on the three most important bills: the elimination of political repression in Ukraine (as regards the release of Mrs. Timoshenko), the new Electoral Act and, of course, the Prosecutor's Office Act. And it'll tell us, it'll really tell us another whole future. The future of a European civilised family. We Ukrainians are a European nation and our way there. Today, our responsibility -- both on the one hand and on the other -- and we definitely have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u12	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u13	Let's make sure that Ukraine's fate is decided not like in 1917 -- beyond Ukraine -- but today we can do everything here, in that Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament, to decide the real, right, light fate and the future of the Ukrainian State. And we'll do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u14	Representative of the President of Ukraine Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u15	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, well, in fact, we all understand the degree of responsibility that is before the Ukrainian Parliament today and all of us. I want to say that the leaders of all factions have given their responsibilities quite a responsibility. And for today, we have three laws left in the Euro-integration package that we have to consider in this room. Two of them have the understanding and support of what we've heard from our colleagues who represented the opposition, they're willing to vote. And this is the Law on Public Prosecutions in the new edition, this is the Law on Amendments to Electoral Law. The question that is causing the debate today, and so far there is no understanding, is the question of treatment for those who are convicted abroad. But there is a political will to consult and seek a way out. A party of regions is proposing to create a working group where this issue can be reconciled and signed by a bill all along from all factions. So far, there is no such desire and willingness on the part of opposition colleagues, but the dialogue is ongoing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u16	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u17	We hope that by 16 o'clock these consultations will be successfully completed. But we should not forget that those bills that stand in order of the day should be considered. And by those who have voices to be voted upon even today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-07-m0.u18	Thank you. Did everyone say that? I ask the deputies to prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. Don't yell, you're not at the rally, my friends! Well, we made a deal! Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on voting: to include in today's session, in the agenda of the day's Procurator's Bill (numbers 3541 and 3541-1). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:48]] For 383. Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 16. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 191, Parenthood - 90, Vitalia Klicka - 38, Freedom - 33, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 31. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's continue our meeting at 16 o'clock today. I'll invite everyone to my session at 4:00.
