ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:27]] A total of 346 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zirkin Igor Markovich. Let's say hello to our colleague. [[Applause]] In accordance with part two of article 27 of the Rules, I report to the National Deputies who are absent from the plenary for important reasons: Dracher Andriy Leonidovich, Orobec, Helevej, Pavlovsky, Popescu, Sobolev, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich. Honourable National Deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Pursuant to article 230 of the Rules, I report to the Cabinet of Ministers who are taking part in the meeting of the "hour of questions to the Government": Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janovich (in international action); First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Arbusov Sergey Gennadiovich (in part); Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Boyko Yuri Anatoliovich; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Wilkull Alexander Yuriyevich; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Gristenko Ivanovich; Minister of Agricultural Policy and Food of the Juridical Community; Vice-Prime Minister of the Russian Federation; (Minister of the Interior is in charge of the Hungarian Government of the Interior) Foreign Minister Kožara Leonid Aleksandrovich is in the process of taking part in the work of the President of Ukraine, and instead he is Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mother Viktor Anatoliyovich. Minister of Infrastructure Kozak Vladimir Vasilovich; Minister of Culture Novojatko Leonid Mihajlovich; Minister of Youth and Sports Safiullin Ravil Safovich; Minister of Defence Lebedev Pavel Valentinovich; Minister of Education and Science Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich; Minister of Health Bogotirov Raisa Vasilovna. Minister of Industrial Policy Queen Mikhailo Konstantinovich on vacation Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing of Temnik Hennady Pavlovich on Vacation. Minister of Social Policy Royal Natalia Jurievna; Minister of Finance Kolobov Yuri Volodymyrovich; Minister of Justice Lukash Olena Leonidivna; First Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich. I'm reporting that Popescu's national deputy is in the workplace. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m., are held "the hour of questions to the Government". Dear colleagues, the subject of questions to which government members will answer today, was determined by the Conciliation Council on Monday. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the preparation of housing and utilities for the heating season and the provision of fuel and energy resources, the state of compliance with trade agreements with the Russian Federation, the overall impact of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. All parliamentary factions, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have notified in advance the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the questions that will be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". The answers to questions from the deputy factions will be: First Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Samchuk Grigory Mihajlovich, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Stavitsky Edouard Anatoliyovich, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Prasolov Igor Mikoalyovich. The next order is proposed for an hour of questions to the government. Give the first 10 minutes to Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Samchuk Grigori Mikhajlovich for answers to questions from MPs about the preparation of housing and utility and 10 minutes to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for answers to questions from MPs regarding fuel and energy supply. Take the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine up to 20 minutes, as he will answer a question that concerns two subjects. For the rest of the time, i.e. 20 minutes, to ask the people’s deputies to join the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a specific subject. It is suggested that one minute at a time each oral question and two minutes at a time be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions to the government from the MP factions. The rostrum invites the first deputy minister of regional development, construction and residential agriculture of Ukraine, Grigory Mihajlovich Semčuk, who will answer questions from the deputy factions about the preparation of housing and utility for the heating season. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Let me briefly report on what was done by the government, the ministry, other structures in preparation for housing and social work in the autumn period, the autumn-winter period 2013-2014. In order to prepare for work in the autumn-winter period 2013-2014, all necessary organizational arrangements were made. I'll give you a quick comment. As early as April in the city of Sevastopol, the College of MINREGION summed up the past heating season, where narrow cities were identified and assigned tasks to be done in the current year. The plan for the comprehensive training of Ukraine as a whole and the headquarters of the MINREGION operational headquarters was approved at the exit college in Winnica on May 13. On June 26, the issue was addressed by the government and a decision was taken, an order was taken, to prepare for the industrialization of the fuel and energy complex, housing and social facilities for a stable autumn-winter period of 2013-2014. Specific measures have been approved to be taken and an interdepartmental working group has been set up to control these issues under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Yuriovich Vilkul. The state of preparation was reviewed by the Ministry twice in July in Donetsk at the exit college and recently in Ilchivsk in August of the Odessa region. With the aim of effective coordination twice a month, this is the first and third Fridays, all the Ukrainian selector boards are held by Vice - Prime Minister Alexander Yuriovich Wilkul, on which all current issues are addressed and relevant decisions are taken. The microregion is made up of four mobile groups that go to the region before a selector’s meeting to verify the real state of preparation in places. The government's task is clear, by September 1st to complete the preparation of the social sphere of schools and preschools, by October 1st all housing and utility facilities, you see organizational arrangements. In general, there is a positive trend in technical training. I want to point out that all regions today keep up the pace of their preparatory work, and they do it by exceeding the planned rate. As of September 5, the planned 85 percent rate of training is actually 95 percent. It was planned to prepare for operation in winter conditions of 205,000 housing units, in fact, 191 thousand or 93 percent of the planned ones have been prepared. A total of 185,000 homes (97 percent) have been issued. According to the schedule, 23,000 700,000 were prepared from the planned 24.5 (97 percent). We got 22,000, 22,000 acts of heat production or 95 percent of what's actually being prepared. A very important question this year was asked, if we're talking about heat supply, modernization, reconstruction of the boiler farm, that is, the heating industry. In the reconstruction plan, 663 boilers have actually been repaired by 636 or 96 percent. In addition, it was planned to replace a thousand 113 boilers. So far, 67 or 96 percent have been replaced. 972 boilers or 91 percent of scheduled boilers have been repaired. By the start of the heating season, it is planned to replace 477 km of heat grids, with two trumpets, and this task has already been completed by 95 percent. A total of 5.3 thousand central heat points have been prepared. Water and sanitation have already been repaired by thousands of miles of water between networks, nearly 2.5 thousand sewage pump stations, 235 water treatment plants, 800 sewage treatment plants. This year, it's planned to capitalize on 6 million square meters of road network, prepare 6.5 thousand units of specialized technology, and buy 1.1 million tons of waste material and reagents. These problems go in the planned ones, I'm not going to call them numbers, they're in the planned ones. For the preparation of housing and utilities, it is available from local budgets, the cost of own enterprises to allocate 3.5 billion dollars. According to the housing fund, 960 million, 1 billion 200, water and sanitation facilities, almost 50 million, and road and bridge 957 million. Work has already been done and 3 billion dollars have been won. In view of the above, you can confidently report today, honourable national deputies, that there are no technical issues today, and by October 1st the branch will be ready for work during the winter period. Yet today the issue of the timely start of the heating season and its 2013-2014 season is on the agenda. This remains a serious, problematic issue, which is primarily the debt of heat-energy enterprises for the natural gas they consume. This issue was discussed yesterday in the government under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Mikli Janović Azarov. As a result of the discussion, a government decision is being prepared, a project is being prepared, and yesterday we reported to Alexander Juryovich on the evening. What will be settled is the issue of covering the difference in tariffs, the repayment of debt on benefits and subsidies, the repayment of debt on public and local budgets. In addition, a number of other measures have been taken that will allow the final period to complete all the issues related to the financing of energy consumption. Thank you for your attention. Let me answer the questions I have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u3	We're done. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Eduardo Anatoliyovich Stavitsky, is invited to the rostrum to answer questions from the MPs about fuel and energy security. The questions will be, the ministers will be asking questions from the MPs, then we'll sign up from the national MPs. It'll be 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u4	Good day, distinguished chairman, good day, distinguished national deputies, good day, distinguished colleagues! In order to ensure the success of the autumn-winter period 2013-2014 by order of Minernergogil (from 26.11.2012 number 922) on the preparation of thermal power plants for their reliable efficient operation in 2013. In 2014, the United States There are 81 power plants with a power supply of 21,667 megawatts. The fossil fuels are 76, and the power is 18,357 megawatts. Gaseous blocks are 5 with a capacity of 3,000 megawatts. At the thermal power plant, all kinds of repairs were made with nine power - sourced power plants of 1,600 megawatts, 35 steam boilers, and three water - heating boilers. At hydropower plants, there are major repairs and reconstructions of at least 60 hydro-aggregates. In the heat grids, some 20.2 miles [20.2 km] of pipelines were repaired. With regard to the fuel supply of TES and AES, according to the Cabinet of Ministers' order of 26.06.2013, number 494 on the preparation of fuel-energy plants of the residential and social sectors for stable work in the autumn-winter period 2013-2014 until 1 October 2013 at the heat power plants of the power-generating companies, it is necessary to create a carbon reserve of an appropriately high-quality marco size of 5 million tonnes. According to the projected balance of electricity, fuel and costs of the generating companies TES for 2013, agreed by Deputy Prime Minister Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich of Ukraine, at the heat power plant warehouses of Ukraine with a state of 1.10 coal reserves planned in the range of 5253 thousand tons. The actual figure for 01.09.2013 is 4 thousand 631 tons, that is, 4 million 631. And we're going to the heating season balance -- 5 million 2008 tons. That is, all the commitments entrusted by the government are fulfilled. It's about putting natural gas in the PSG. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that as of 1/09/2013, 12 billion 200 million cubic gases have been added to the PSF. Of these, about 5 million, 800 billion cubic gases of their own are fully provided for the heating season. As for the individual issues that came from the factions. First: will Ukraine's combined energy system withstand the test during the 2013-2014 fall-winter peak? The energy repair company is running according to established graphs, and we have now passed about 90 percent of the area needed for repair. As to the question, how is the question of connecting electrical installations to electricity networks addressed today? With a view to regulating the issue of electrical integration of consumers since 22 June 2012, the President signed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Payments for Networking of Natural Monopolies, No. 5021-6, which took effect on 1 January 2013. The law that amends article 12 is the main tasks and mandate of the KRE Law on Electricity, namely, Ukraine. Development and approval of rules for the integration of electrical installations into the electricity networks of the default forms of connection contracts, the default forms of technical conditions. To date, the National Commission's decision to regulate the state energy sector, in accordance with Order No. 1695, has registered all the necessary rules for the integration of power plants into electricity networks and approved by order and registered with the Ministry of Justice on 08.02.2013 No.236-22768. On the question of the state of rehabilitation in the Hungarian TEZ. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that recovery is complete and that in November-month, the first two blocks -- 1st and 4th -- will be connected to the Ukrainian OS network. What will be the next questions? Ready to respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u5	What questions are there for the Minister of Fuel and Energy? Sit down, Edward Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich is invited to the rostrum to answer questions from MPs about the state of compliance with trade agreements with the Russian Federation and the general consequences of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u6	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! There were 14 questions about the development of the Mine Economics. In order to answer some of the questions that have a common theme, I am uniting into blocks. Block one is Ukraine in SOTA. We have six questions from the faction of the Party of Regions: "How does membership in the SOT contribute to the increase in exports of Ukrainian products? Is there reason to believe that foreign investment in Ukraine will accelerate as a member State of the WTO? What new opportunities have emerged for Ukraine since joining the multilateral trading system?" From the Vital Klitschk political party: "What exactly has been done in the last year by the government to promote Ukrainian goods outside the borders of the customs trades of the countries of the Customs Union, which implement an open, unfriendly policy on Ukraine? Is the government planning to protect national economic interests by using WTO mechanisms? The introduction of a recycling assembly actually contrasts Ukraine with the WTO member countries. How will the government remedy this situation? I recall that Ukraine has been a member of the WTO since May 16, 2008. At present, the WTO now has 159 countries and customs territories that account for more than 95 percent of the world’s trade. Then, membership in the WTO is a prerequisite for the full integration of our economy into the world economy. Ukraine’s introduction to the WTO allowed it to start negotiations on free trade zones with other countries. In particular, on June 1, last year, the free trade agreement between Ukraine and the countries of the EUVT Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein became effective. On October 16, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified a free trade agreement between Ukraine and Montenegro. Negotiations are under way for entry into the markets of those countries that have intensified negotiations to obtain WTO membership. This is Yemen, Kazakhstan, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Free trade agreements with Turkey, Canada, Serbia, Israel are under way. The prospects for such a treaty with Vietnam are being studied. Programmes for Ukraine’s exit to new markets in Asia, the Pacific, and Latin America are being developed. Negotiations are under way on Ukraine’s accession to the WTO Treaty on State Procurement. This should give Ukrainian companies access to public purchasing markets in 43 signatory countries. For example, to the U.S. market, where transactions involving foreign operators are estimated at more than $178 billion. The European Union market is $352 billion. Japan is 27 billion dollars. WTO membership is evidence of the creation in Ukraine of a transparent environment for foreign investment. Yes, considering the five - year period leading up to Ukraine’s entry into WTO from 2003 to 2007, the annual volume of foreign direct investment coming to Ukraine on average amounted to $5.3 billion. Between 2008 and 2012, despite the global financial crisis, as a result of the world’s capital flows, the arrival of foreign direct investment increased to $7.5 billion on average per year. Speaking of promising benefits, Ukraine's participation in the WTO increases the attractiveness of Ukrainian companies to foreign investors, the opening of world markets strengthens export-oriented production positions. As for the utilizational congregation. In accordance with the mandate of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, work is being done to eliminate certain provisions of legislation that do not comply with the principles of the WTO. This includes changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Transport Means and the Ukrainian Tax Code on Environmental Taxation. The adoption of appropriate amendments will ensure that Ukraine fulfils its international obligations. Ukraine is actively using and will continue to use the rights it has received in the WTO, as well as the mechanisms and tools that it provides for membership in the organization. The second block is commercial and economic production, cooperation with the SND. We have three questions. First from the faction of the political party, Vitalia Klicka. Last year, Mikola Azarov spoke about Ukraine’s benefits from entering the SND free trade zone. A treaty was signed. What is the value of this agreement if recent events at the Ukrainian-Russian border have shown that Moscow is simply ignoring it? Dear colleagues, it is no secret that the SND is the largest trading partner that has ever been established in Ukraine, as well as technological compatibility and close commercial ties. Then, Ukraine simply needs to have an appropriate contractual base that regulates the movement of goods in free trade with SND countries. This agreement has ensured that a regulatory framework for cooperation is implemented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the WTO. Thus, the States parties to the treaty have confirmed their willingness to trade according to WTO standards. Today, in addition to Ukraine, there is Belarus, Russia, Armenia, Moldova, Kazakhstan. As for the second part of the question, let me point out that the SND Free Trade Agreement contains provisions for the administration of customs procedures. This is article 17 of the treaty, which regulates customs administration, formalities related to imports and exports, and the application of trade rules in general. Above all, this article refers directly to the situation of SOTA (8 and 10 GATT 1994). So the contract provides for the direct use of WTO standards from this point of view. The way the Russian side applies risk profiles to Ukrainian goods is unacceptable to the civilized world. But this is not a contract issue, and it is certainly not a WTO issue, but a party that has taken such one - on - one action. Second question from the faction of the Party of Regions. Is it possible to resolve the trade dispute arising under the SND Free Trade Zone Treaty of 18 October 2011 using WTO rules and rules? Of course, it is possible. Article 19 of the Treaty provides that if a trade dispute by the parties has failed to settle through consultation, there are still three ways to do so. The first is the economic court of the SND, the second is the transfer of a dispute to the panel of experts created under the procedure provided for in Appendix 4 to the Treaty. Third. If a dispute arises between members of the social groups that are governed by the WTO treaty, such disputes must first and foremost be resolved in accordance with the order envisaged by the relevant WTO agreements. I will point out that in order to address these issues, the Government of Ukraine is doing work using all available tools, both the WTO agreements and the SND Free Trade Agreement, as well as the Joint Intergovernmental Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation. Third question from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. What measures are being taken to review the provisions of the SND Free Trade Agreement with a view to abolishing customs duties on certain types of Ukrainian goods that have been removed from the relevant Agreement today? Thesis one. For this, the Free Trade Agreement does not need to be reviewed. Article 2 of the Treaty provides that the parties have agreed to negotiate the reduction and phase-out of the expert duties provided for in Appendix 1 to the Treaty. Thesis two. In accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty, a negotiating process has been initiated with regard to the development of a protocol on the reduction and phase-out of export duties in the trade of the States parties to the treaty. The said talks are attended by the Ukrainian delegation. Today, rounds of negotiations have taken place in March and June of the current year. The meeting of the expert group is scheduled for October 2013. The third block is the 2014 forecast. We have 3 questions from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom regarding the forecast of macroeconomic indicators for 2014, such as the forecast of exports of Ukraine's trade balance, inflation levels, etc., and the projected financial provision of the State's economic growth programme in 2014. First. Under the uncertain development of the world economy, it is extremely important for us to develop a realistic forecast for Ukraine's economic and social development with a view to minimizing budgetary risks. This is final work. The other one. The government does not predict significant price fluctuations in the consumer market in 2014. Third. In 2014 there is forecast to increase the implementation of measures aimed at financial incentives for exports, optimization of export-import structure, diversification of export markets. This will in the future shape a long-term trend, increase the competitiveness of the national economy, and positively affect the export dynamics of goods. The increase in imports will primarily be due to an increase in investment demand. As a result, the growth in exports of goods and services is projected to exceed the rate of import. We realize that today the potential for Ukraine's economy to grow is limited by external factors. So we will continue our policy of stimulating the development of the internal market and domestic production. To this end, the government was adopted in 2013 and is currently implementing a state programme to boost economic growth for 2013-2014. The projected funding volume of the state programme in 2014 -- 207 billion 159 million 100,000 dollars, including at the expense of the state budget -- over 23 billion dollars, local budgets -- over 5 billion dollars, loans from international financial institutions -- over 13 billion dollars of other sources, including government guarantees, is the main resource of the programme. Two last questions. The first is from the faction of the political party Vitalia Klicka on the Society's limited responsibility to the Mechanical Plant. At the direction of Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov of Ukraine, the company was involved in the development of the economy. The results of the hearing were informed by the Ukrainian national deputies, Mr. Nastawajchenka Valentina Alexandrovich and Mr. Putilova Andrija Stanislavovic, as well as by the company. That's the point of the Ministry's position. The export of products of color metals is subject to licensing according to Ukrainian legislation in the field of external economic activity. Then there is the way to solve the problem in the enterprise, to comply with the requirements of legislation and to obtain the right license. The latest question from the Communist Party of Ukraine's deputy faction on economic impact calculations from Ukraine's accession to the EU free trade zone. I will note that research on the consequences for Ukraine since the implementation of the Association Agreement has been carried out since 2007. A total of 23 studies were carried out during this period, of which 6 were carried out by the leading scientific institutions for the order of Minoeconomic Development. Research involved both the general consequences of the implementation of the agreements, including the impact on the economy and the state budget, as well as individual sectors, such as health care, education, the labour market, international migration. In preparation for Ukraine's economy, seminars and round tables for industrial, business and scientific community representatives have been held in all areas of Ukraine since 2011 to discuss the basic positions of the agreement, advantages and risks. 7,000 74 national standards have been adopted, harmonised with international and European standards, and 42 technical regulations have been developed on the basis of EU legislation. The increase in the competitiveness of Ukrainian goods in the European market should, first of all, be achieved by increasing quality requirements. Reforms are under way in areas such as sanitation, public procurement, state aid, and so forth. At the final stage of the preparation of the implementation programme of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, which will form the basis for Ukraine's integrated and coherent economic development towards Euro-integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for not attending yesterday's meeting because I was at a meeting where the country's very important issues were resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u7	Please sit down, Igor Mikolaiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, questions to the government from the MPs have been considered. Let us turn to the questions raised by the government from the Conciliation Council of the National Deputies of Ukraine. People's deputies please sign up for questions. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u8	Thank you. I have a question for Eduardo Anatoliovich and the Minister of Energy. Honourable Eduardo Anatoliyovich, in Ukraine, especially in the Kyiv region in the Borispol region, continues the practice of chaotic, systemsless destruction of populated areas. The past fall-winter period has especially been marked by such a decline in weather conditions, such as the fall of trees. Please tell us what is being done by the Ministry to improve energy supply during the difficult weather conditions that may have a place this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I'd like to inform the distinguished people's deputies that the government has made a decision that allows for the expansion of electricity networks that go within forest lanes, namely 1.5-2 meters, which will allow more efficient use of electricity lines in periods of heavy rainfall. Secondly, my report said that we had made a big case-prevention package, and I think that we are fully prepared for the next fall-winter season 2013-2014, and that's why we're convinced that there's not going to be such a detour that when there was a big fall. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u10	National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u11	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, faction of the Party of the Regions. I have a question for Deputy Minregionbud. Dear Grigory Mikhailovich, I know that a large complex of work was carried out in the country before the heating season. It really is. But in order to do more effectively in preparation for the winter, the reform of the LHC, you need to involve more boldly the major MPs who know best where the problems are and how to solve them. It's a wish. Now let's ask you a question. What will you do with the hot water supply, the heat supply for the heating season, are there costs for it, and what are the debts for the work done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u12	Well, with regard to the involvement of majorists or deputies, we've created a regulatory framework for housing and utility reform. We've set up two independent expert groups in the ministry that will involve experts who understand and assist us in this matter. One group is headed by the former First Deputy of Bilansky, and scientists and experts are involved. And the second group is the organs of local self-governance, the deputy corps, which you are known for being the second member of Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. In terms of heat and hot water supply, I reported that three billion has already been won, and I've reported on what we've achieved this year. By the way, for this period we've analyzed over the past few years, we've had a slightly lower rate, thanks to the organizational work that we did. Three billion have already been won, 1.5 billion have been planned, and a billion 200 have been earned for their life - support system, primarily heat and hot water. So we're confident that this heating season should go through, well, without serious breakdowns and I think it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u13	Zarubinski National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u14	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. In fact, respectable colleagues, three speeches directly or indirectly, rather directly related to one problem: both the LHC, and the trade relationship, and the energy issue is the question of energy supply, it's the question of energy imports and the question of self-sustainment. If you reject any emotion, the dynamics of your own production are positive in Ukraine. I found figures that, from 2009 to 2012, the amount of capital investment in the production of Ukrainian hydrocarbons doubled from 5.3 billion dollars to 11 billion dollars. It's positive for me, and the dynamics of reducing imports of gas, imported, expensive gas, are planned for 27.3. I have a question for Minister Stavisky. Mr. Minister, what are you predicting further dynamics in investing in the production of its own oil and gas, its own Ukrainian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u15	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP, distinguished national MPs. Well, first of all, I want to really thank you for the very right question, because the government is working hard on its own production. You know, this year we signed our first strong investment contract with Royal Dutch Shell in Yusse Square, and we're counting that only in the next two years will there be at least about $500 million in geological exploration and further investment in about $10 billion in industrial production. Now we're looking at issues in the District Councils of Ivano-Frankovsky and Lvivsky. We find an understanding. I personally took part in several meetings, received all the necessary comments, which the interdisciplinary commission carried out in the production distribution agreement, namely, on Chevron Oleska Square. I think that this year we will also complete all the issues regarding the signing of this agreement. The government's development also raises the issue of a chapter contract with AxelMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, ".".. It's on the deep-sea shelf of the Black Sea. This is also a very serious question. We're waiting for the signing of the fall. And the fourth. We have applications from leading companies, namely Italian companiesENI, for the development of a freshwater shelf. So, in summary of my statement, I expect that in the near future, between 2014 and 2017, the production will be made in our nation's own production. A geological exploration of only about $3 billion, which will give a powerful boost to our country's future full supply of gas and oil. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u16	National MP Oleg Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u17	It's a
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u18	Passes the word. It's a
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u19	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society! Question to the Prime Minister, but since he's not here, to the First Deputy Prime Minister. The other day, we sounded our faction's position on the incident that took place on July 17th in the Azov Sea. According to our firm belief, the videocads and individual statements of Minsk and the Ministry of Health have been proved. In fact, Russian border guards attacked a fishing barge with Ukrainian fishermen. On the part of the government, separate actions were taken that did not guarantee the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Question to the Prime Minister or to the First Vice Prime Minister. What action does the government take to properly investigate the incident with Ukrainian sailors? And what will be the return of Ukrainian fisherman Alexander Fedorovich? And what payments have been made to families killed by the Russian Federation's naval pirates.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. The process is not completed today. We continue to work with the Media of Russia. The negotiations are now in progress, and decisions are pending. In the near future, it will be accepted to give to relatives of people who have suffered in this case financial, financial, and financial support. So the process is not finished. And I'm going to give the word "MIA" right now to explain what negotiations are currently going on at the level of MIA Russia and our country. Please, Mr. Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u21	Thank you, Sergey Hennadiovich. Today, Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking maximum measures to return Ukrainian citizens to their homeland. This involves active contacts both through the external political authorities of Ukraine and Russia and through the work of our Ministry of Public Prosecutions. The consul on the spot, Moskalenko, is constantly working on this issue. He recently met with our citizen. He had a meeting with the prosecutor. There is constant contact with Russia’s strong forces. I think we'll have a decision soon, hopefully a positive decision about our citizen's fate. At least today, I can assure you, honourable national deputies, every effort is being made to bring our citizen back to the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u22	The National Honcharov, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, gives his word to Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u23	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Dear colleagues answered questions about the results of Ukraine’s entry into the U.S. secretary of U.S.A. I thought you, Igor Mikolaiovich, were a responsible man. Why do I make that assessment? Following Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, a negative balance is growing year-on-year in Ukraine’s trade and economic relations. And that means that imports are much higher than exports, which means that the Ukrainian producer is being destroyed, which means that small and medium-sized businesses are being destroyed. So I wanted to hear from you the specific reasons for the growth of the negative balance, which commodity groups, or goods, have suffered from it and what it does, coming out of this very ministry of yours. Because when you made a statement that you were discussing the risks and advantages of joining the WTO, you should have done so before entering the WTO, not after entering the WTO. I am raising this issue in connection with Ukraine’s preparations to join the association.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Regarding the results of Ukraine’s joining the WTO. As you remember, when negotiations were held between Ukraine and the WTO on Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, for example, agriculture was said to have some negative consequences. As you recall, there were very difficult discussions. But today, as you can see, nothing like this has happened, and Ukrainian agriculture is producing high-quality products that have a very good demand for the world market. What the Ministry of Economics is doing, no, the second question was about trade balance. Indeed, the situation is very difficult because of the decline in demand in countries that are the permanent recipients of Ukrainian exports. This includes Europe. As you know, this year it was planned that Europe's economy, which has a very high value added, would increase GDP not only in the European Union but also in the European Union. But that didn't happen. As you know, the prognosis has worsened again. And that's why things aren't getting any better for our exports. However, I would like to point out that the rate of decline in exports that we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u25	National Deputy Gerasimczuk Mikhailo, faction of the Ukrainian Company, gives the floor to the National Deputy Oksani Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u26	Oksana Kaletnik, 16th constituency, Winnitsk district. I have a question for the Minister of Energy and the coal industry of Mr. Stavitsky. Your report said the figures: the natural gas of the ASG is attached, you said 12 billion, of which 5 billion are your own. I have a question: tell me, what is the cost of own production, and what is the cost of implementing the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. The cost of own production varies in the fixed tariff of NCRE, namely, about 340 grivens. This is the tariff that works for our population as a whole. As far as TKE is concerned, we have a leave of absence in price policy -- about 1,300 dollars at fixed tariffs. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u28	National MP Dorokhov gives the word to the national deputy of Cibenk, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u29	Thank you. A faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. I want to address my question to the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Ukraine. And here's the thing. During this week, I prepared a request for the Prime Minister to provide financial budgetary support for the execution of court decisions on behalf of millions of black people, Afghans, war veterans, children of war. So what I want to ask you is, how is this going to work out? Because in the past 2012, the Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice had to execute 441,000 court decisions in the amount of 8.4 billion dollars. A little over 1.5 billion is actually done. So once again, I want to emphasize how the government is going to account for the decisions made in the name of Ukraine, I emphasize?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. You know, yesterday, the question of a bill that regulates these issues was resolved. and now that this law has come into force, we will act as required by this law. So this decision will already be governed by another law altogether. Because we are set to make all the decisions and to obey the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u31	The People's Deputies of Dirov, the faction of Fatherland, pass on the word of Yatzenjuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u32	I'd like to contact the Cabinet. First, today, the President of the European Council and the European People's Party have made clear their support for Ukraine in its Euro-integration course. Our Russian partners have unfortunately broken four basic agreements between Ukraine and Russia regarding our bilateral cooperation. It's a so-called big deal, it's nuclear security assurances, it's the World Trade Organization Agreement, and it's our Free Trade Agreement. I would like to point out to you separately, members of the government, what the next actions of Russia will be with regard to Ukraine to block Ukraine's entry into the EU. Labour emigrants whom they will try to send out of Russia, consider the introduction of a visa regime, remove Russian capital from Ukraine and the final trade restrictions on Ukraine. We're talking to you next. What must we do? First. You have to sign the contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u33	Finish up, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u34	The agreement between Ukraine and the EU needs to be signed on 28 November. The other one. Start negotiations with the World Trade Organization and resolve trade disputes with Russia, with our partners. Third. Credit support for Ukrainian businesses and diversification of markets. We must become stronger after Russia geopolitically pressures Ukraine. Our tasks today are to make Ukraine a truly European state. Both you and the government and most of you depend very much on it. We have demonstrated, as the Ukrainian opposition, unity and desire to join the European Union. We require you to be professional and professional, to protect every Ukrainian exporter, to protect every Ukrainian producer, to protect every Ukrainian job, to go to Europe, to get credit from the International Monetary Fund, to get the EBRD, to get macro-financial assistance from the European Union, not to fear anyone, but to protect only Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u35	One last question. People's deputy corner. The Faction "KARPUNCH" gives the word "KARPUNTSOV".
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, regarding the question of the Mechanical Plant of Hersonian. Minister Prasololov's answer is cynical. A company that employs more than 500 of our citizens, a company that pays taxes in a depressed region, an enterprise that exports 14 years, has all the licenses, has been artificially pressured, blocked by strong methods. I have a question in my mind right now, not to the minister, but to the government's leadership, perhaps to Sergey Hennadiovich. Please tell me if the government will do anything to unlock the factory's export. What responsibility will be borne by the management of the BSS and the customs office of the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I'm not ready to answer the question right now, because please let me ask you a question, and next Friday I'll answer that question. We need to study this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Arsena Avakov to the President of Ukraine on the use by the President of Ukraine of his constitutional powers to implement the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Julia Timoshenko for the purpose of signing an association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. I'm asking you to vote in favour. Please vote. [[11:03:21]] For-89 The factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 31, Vitalia Klicka Hit 22, Freedom 27, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 7. Request not supported. Denisov's people to the President of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to stop the destabilization of the work of the Special Clinic Victory. I'm asking for your support. Please vote. [[11:04:06]] For 128 The factions. Region Party 8, Fatherland, 31, Vitalia Klitka, 24, Freedom, 30, Ukraine, 28, non-fractional, 7. Request not supported. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of numerous violations of the rights of Yulia Timoshenko and the cessation of political repression. Vladimir Litvina Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov for the implementation of the State Budget Act 2013 as part of the allocation of subsidies for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the failure of the Ukrainian authorities to enforce the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the "Timishenko v. Ukraine" case before the signing by Ukraine of the Association Agreement with the European Union. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of the inhabitants of the village of Petrik, Malinov village council of the Latin Region. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for an immediate response to criminal acts involving the smuggling of cars and the collection of budgetary funds by the head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Sergey Bogchenk. Prior to the head of the Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Kilinkarov was informed about the fact that the head of the Lviv Court of Appeal, Sergey Bogchenk, had committed corruption and other illegal acts. Alexander Sr. to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Volin District State Administration for the Investigation of Crime and the Involvement of Officials of the Lutsk City Council and the Private Enterprise Gloria Boud Plus in front of the members of the Lutsk House Co-operative. Alexander the Jury to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the head of the Provincial District Administration for the payment of debts on salary to employees of the Public Shareholders Association of the Orutsky Mining and Enriching Combined Quarcite and for the involvement of officials in the combination who committed violations of workers' rights. Anton Dorokhov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of crimes involving the abuse of power and official status, the excess of power and official powers by Valentina Semenyuk-Samsonenko, and a number of other service crimes during his tenure as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, as well as the legalization of funds obtained through criminal means. Anton Dorokhov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Reconstruction of the Hydrotechnical Building in the village of Pledni Tashlik Malovsky district of Kirovograd. Oxana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Order of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine "For the Approval of the State Register of Accountants" dated August 2, 2013 No 317. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for payments made by the city budget administrators of the city of Chernivci. Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the National Fisheries Agency of Ukraine on Ukraine’s position on the creation of a protected natural zone in the Ross Sea and on part of the eastern coast of Antarctica. Basil Samylenk to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the insufficient supply of drinking water to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster in the region of Brussels. Vasil Samylenk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the unwarranted closure of the Jarun village hospital in Novograd Wallin district of Žitomir district. Vitalia Chugunikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of employees of the Ddolbuni district police department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Plain region. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the failure of Ukraine’s State Railway Administration to carry out its duties and functions. Olga To fight with the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of compliance with Ukrainian law-abiding standards by the citizen of the United States of America Bronkem Galai Valentina Romanovna in carrying out her economic activities in Ukraine. Olga Fight with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the rules of law by the executive committee of the Izasl City Council when deciding on the formation of tariffs for centralized water supply. Victoria Babic, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Suma Region, which has resulted in the suspension of the commemoration of the memorial date at the state level and shows the Government's disrespect for the rule of law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u39	Viktoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the blocking of the Ohtiri National Treasury Office accounts, which makes it impossible to repair the important social object of the Ohtyr Public Education School No.3 and the negative impact on the economic activity of the Communion Company of the Ohtyr City Council. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine regarding dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal of 22 July 2013 on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian tax legislation by some enterprises, whose separate units are located in the territory of the city of Fastov Kyiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need to carry out a comprehensive examination of the circumstances regarding the long-term non-execution of a court decision passed on behalf of the persons with disabilities of Anatolia II and Alla Bulavko. Eugene Marmazov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the situation around the National Institute of "Specialized Health Part No.19 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine". Valentina Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine on a gross violation by the management of the newspaper "Ternopel evening" of the constitutional rights of her former chief accountant, Ludmila Marchak, not paying for more than three years due to her in the release of her salary. Mikoli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director General of the Ukroborprom State Concerto on Payables in Enterprises of the Mikolai region, which are part of the Ukrobanprom State Concert. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of coercing shareholders of the Stock Exchange to buy government treasury liabilities. Sergey Topalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-deployment of the 16th Military Hospital (the city of Feodosis of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea). Roman Shugal to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to verify the illegal increase in tariffs paid by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine "Poltava-Inform Resources" for the storage on special sites of temporarily delayed means of transport. Romana Shugal to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Chernobyl District State Administration, head of the Watch Tower District State Administration of the Chernobyl Region for the consideration of a statement from the community of the village of the type of town of Krasnoiłsk Storzyzinetsky district of the Chernieweck region regarding the retraining of a local hospital with a hospital and an infirmary of general practice of family medicine in the general practice of family medicine. Arsen Avakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal seizure of private property by a group of officials in Kharkiv. Valentina Queen to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the financial security of employees of local self-government basic level (rural, village councils). Valentina Kraluk to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, U.K. Attorney General's Office on the need to establish conditions for the illness of citizen Roman Stryhaluk during his term in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and pay him compensation. Alexander Zubchevsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the urgent problems of the inhabitants of the village of Obilyal Melitopol district of Zaporozhye. Alexander Zubcevski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for housing of military personnel in the city of Melitopol Zaporez Region. Bogdan Benyuk and John Stoyk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the killing of fishermen in the Azov Sea and providing political and legal support to Ukrainian citizens. Bogdan Benjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful seizure of the property of the Holy Christmas parish of John the Baptist of the Ukrainian Autocaphal Orthodox Church of the village of Zlota Balka in the region of Herson. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of bribery and abuse of office by officials in the district of Suma. Olega Lalashka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the prohibition of entering Ukraine as a citizen of Russia, a member of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, Volodymyr Girinowski. Irina Spirina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the labour rights of employees of the Private Shareholders Association of the Dnipropetrov Pipe Plant. Irina Spirina to Vice Prime Minister Alexander Vilkula of Ukraine on civil rights violations and the inaction of local authorities in the city of Dnipropetrovska. Lilia Greenevich to Prime Minister of Ukraine on inadequate funding in 2013 for the State’s targeted social programme for the development of extra-school education. Lilia Greenevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the construction of a public educational institution in the village of the town of Chabana Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region. Petra Cibenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial provision of social security payments following court decisions resulting from amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 and the adoption of the budget for 2014. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Society's Novokahov Institute with limited responsibility for the Berislav Farm of the Hersonian Region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of changing the status of the radioactive pollution zone as a result of the Chernobyl disaster in the territory of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for contributing to the provision of additional subsidies to the district budget of the Žitomir Region for the completion of the construction of a preschool facility in the village of Pechanovka in the region of Žitomir. Valentina Nastavajchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the renovation of the building of the people's house in the village of Lapshin and the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Velika Hodáčkyv Ternopil district. Valeria Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the preparation and adoption procedure by the Poltavian District Council of the decision "Acquiring to obtain a special permit without auction to the Society with limited responsibility "ALRON" for geological research, including research and industrial development with further oil and gas extraction (industry development) The Eastern Opishnian Block of the Natiszczin Square in the Kotelev region of Poltava." Sergey Greenewecko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the status of fulfilling the requirements of article 6 of the Law on Social Protection of War Children of 18 November 2004 on the payment of pension benefits or monthly life support or state social assistance paid instead of pension. Sergey Firemarck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of an official clarification on the application of specific provisions of the Order of Collection, Removal, Disposal and Disposal of Worked Oil (Olive) approved by Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 17 December 2012 No.1221, "Some issues of collection, removal, destruction and disposal of sentinel oils (Olive)". Alexander Guerrega to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for financial compensation for the transport of citizens of the extended category by carriers of the Hrrodocké, Jarmolinetske, Danube, Cemerovetske region of the Hmeljni district. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the renovation of the premises of the Ukrainian ophthalmotramatology centre and the All-Ukrainian Eye Care Centre of the National Institute of Eye Diseases and Tissue Therapy of Vladimir Filatov National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt of social benefits due to the temporary loss of employment for the residents of the Ternopil region. Vladimir Bidyovka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the organization and experimentation of the All-Ukrainian level on the basis of the children's house of the Mariupol Children's Centre. Vladimir Bidyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources for the continuation of the construction of the "Species Vertical Skypowl Complex" of the "Shits of Olchowatska" of the State Enterprise "Orgenikidevugil". Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the robbery and threat of murder of members of the Associate Counselor's family, Anton Loginov. Mr. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the examination of the inaction of Ukrainian security officers and the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, the cessation of their criminal activity and the removal of life threats of Assistant Counsellor Alexander Boltian. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the critical situation of providing the population of the Poltava region with a bubble gas, which affects more than 30,000 subscribers. Groups of National Deputies (Gordienka, Barwinenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to solve the problems of Bender High School No.3 (Dniesteria) with the aim of creating a positive image of the Ukrainian school abroad. Ruslan Skarbowiyczuk to the first deputy head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Calancean district of Hersson County in part of the pension payment of a citizen of Ivan Naumenk and the consideration of his information request. Anatolia Vitova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the distribution of road repair costs in Ukraine. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on possible abuses in the preparation of the three-dimensional edition of Ternopolska. History of cities and villages".. Jury Wozniak to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the protection of the rights and interests of Love the Ripper from violations committed by the authorities of the judicial investigation and the court. Yuri Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure that the population receives digital (telephones) signals. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the subject of bodily harm and the threat of physical execution to the participants of the meeting on 24 August 2013 in the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankov District Government Administration, on the situation surrounding the village of Mikulicin in the area of Ivano-Frankov in connection with the illegal change in the target destination of the Carpathian Forest Fund, the failure to comply with Presidential Decree No.215 of 23 February 2010 and other violations. Juriya Orotyuka to the head of Zaporozhye District State Administration, Zaporozhye City Head, for support of the public's initiative to establish a granite ceiling to honor the 788 children who died in Zaporozhye in the Infant House from May 1932 to November 1933. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures for the execution of court decisions by the Dobrobud building company and the removal of the violation of the rights of residents of Apartment No.81 A, located on the avenue of Stephen Bandera in Ternopol, which is to carry out illegal construction in the instigation area. Omelyana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency condition of the teaching corps No.4 of the Cherka National University of the name Bogdan Hmelnick. Sergija Goncharova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the wrong decision of the Alcev City Council regarding the allocation of land in Lenin Square. Sergija Goncharova to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the Kabmin regulations of Ukraine since October 31, 2011 No.1185 by the Agricultural Society with limited responsibility for the conduct of agricultural activities in the region of Lugansk. Valentina Nastavajchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of officials of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in pensioning persons who have been rehabilitated under the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. Alexander Mocchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the need to take immediate action to stop the illegal pressure from the local authorities on the Kerch radio station of Brice and the Internet edition of Kerch. eFm." Vitalia Klicka and Alexander Mochkov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of an objective investigation into the attack on the leader of the youth wing of the Luhansk Regional Political Party, "Klitzka Vitalia" by Pavel Lisianski in the city of Anthracyt. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Kowalczuk and others) A total of 29 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to eliminate manual mechanisms for regulating external economic activity that inhibits investment activity in Ukraine and creates conditions for abuse of service and corruption. Peter Simonenck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless change in the status of the Ukrainian population in the area of radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take appropriate measures to ensure that children with or prone to tuberculosis can be treated and cured. Groups of National Deputies (Putilova, Klitschka, and others) A total of 28 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service staff in the Herson region, which led to the blocking of the sale of Ukrainian products, the non-receiving of foreign exchange earnings for the country, the failure to fill the payroll fund for workers. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Poltava City Head, for not allowing the closure of the branch of the Poltava City School No.12 village of Red Road. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the examination of the facts of the improper investigation of fraud committed by officials of the Poltava Credit Society. Vladimir Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the exceedance of official powers by the head of the Laneweck District Council of the Ternopil region of Alexander Blazeychuk. Victor Gubar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response of law enforcement agencies to the village of Talayevka of the Chernigiv region to repeated complaints by citizens. Victor Gubar to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the case was approved by the judges of the Court of Appeal of Montenegro. Anton Dorokhov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of crimes involving the abuse of power and official status, the excess of power and official powers by Valentina Semenyuk-Samsonenko, and a number of other service crimes during his tenure as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, as well as the legalization of funds obtained through criminal means. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the disclosure of payments from the city budget by the authorities of the State Treasury Service and for the immediate repayment of arrears from salaries in front of employees of the municipal and transport companies of Kirovograd. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds from the State budget for full-time accounts with employees of educational and health institutions in Kirovograd in 2013. Igora Alexeieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal seizure of the land area located in the area of the "Mlinovo" ceremony of the Kyiv region of Boripil. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the negative effects of the manufacturing of the Lviv coal mine in the Sokal region and the cost of repairing the road painting. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of works for the repair of the Mikolaiov-Grodok-Jovka-Kamyanka-Buzka-Bibrka road in the Kamyanko-Buzka district. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on energy conservation measures for socially vulnerable areas of the population. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring a continuous timetable for the admission of citizens to government and local self-government. Taras Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of the annual district literary award for Vasil Simonenko's status as National. Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine and the executive authorities of the Žitomirsk, Hmeljna and Ternopil regions. Vassila Petovka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the compliance of the acting Director of the State Enterprise, "Brusturian National Forest Fisheries". Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of creditors' debt, which was established under the State programme "Convention of the State Budget for Local Programme Finance – Winners of the All-U.S. Project Competition and Local Self-Government Programmes" during the financing of the project "Building of the Stadium in the village of Panivanovka in the Seminal Region of Poltavian Region". Mikli Dzardanov to Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander Vilkul on the situation that has arisen in the heat-generating enterprises of the Mikolai region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for specific answers to the painful problem of the inhabitants of Trojščina – building a metropolis ground line, namely: what are the specific sources of funding; the number of State guarantees provided under credit; the dates of the beginning and the end of the construction; the readiness of the final project and its copy; the amounts of the funds that were set up and allocated in 2013 (state and local budgets); the work planned for 2013; and the three-year-olds were fed up with long-term empty promises. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Prohibition of Entry into the Territory of Ukraine, a citizen of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Žyrinowski, who publicly encroaches on Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty, considering Crimea, Donbas, and Harkushkin as Russian lands, and resents that Ukrainian lectures are being read in higher educational institutions. Paul Kirilenko to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the need to respect the state status of the Ukrainian language in the field of tourism. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the search and identification of new budget sources for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of public roads. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on financial resources to ensure the financing of the protected expenditure of the local budgets of education, health, culture and local self - government in the Lviv region. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on logging in the Suburban Forest and taking personal control of the situation with the Olympic training base from the biotlon in the village of Suburban Ternopil. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney-General Alexi Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit the Government's Programme of Action to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to prevent the Supreme Council from exercising parliamentary control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dmitry Schlemka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-execution of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Kudri to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the requirement of the inhabitants of Heivoron, Ulyanovski, Golovanski district of Kirovograd, and the Bershad region of Vinnitsky district to resume the course of the Hayvoron Winnitz train and the trailers of other trains. Vladimir Kudri to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the return of work books and the payment of debts on salary to employees of Morozowski's former State Holding Company Alexander Burugilla. Tetjana Tears to the Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the completion of the construction of pedestrian bridges on the M-06 Kiev-Chop road. Tetjana Tears to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the conduct of the thermal water treatment test. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the illegal placement of IAFs from the sale of alcoholic beverages at the educational institutions of Kiev. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rightfulness of evicting troops from the Cherka district administration and the legality of the repair work in the building of the Cherka district administration for the initiative of the head of the Cherka district administration, Sergio Tulub. Mikoli Soloszczenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation within the State budget of Ukraine and a special fund of $125 000 for the capital repairs covered the New Moscow PTU no.48. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the facts of ignoring by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine the provisions of the Cabinet's Ordinance on the Question of the Change of Medical Transfers to Medical Devices and Products of Medical Purpose, which are purchased at the expense of State and Local Budgets. Paul Petrenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of failure by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to perform the tasks and actions of the Public Health Programme to combat cancers until 2016. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response and inaction of the law enforcement authorities and prosecutors of the Mikolai region in violation of the current legislation of Ukraine. Valery Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the concealment of the person involved in the crime, the kidnapping of a civil case from the premises of the Alexandri District Court of Kirovograd. Viacheslav of the Road to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to help care for mentally ill persons with disabilities. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration and restoration of the temple of Nizhina, Chernigiv. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations by the State Treasury Service of article 43 of the Ukrainian Budget Code in part of the timely provision of settlement and cassation services for the city budget of Ivano-Frankivska. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for rational use of budgetary resources. Andrija Mishchenka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the presence in the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine of Alexander Jacobine's name sign of a foreign state. Valerija Černjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of property rights for the residence of Julia Bilinec, resident of the town of Zacarpatsk. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the central executive authorities and local self - government and the violation of effective legislation when considering appeals by the inhabitants of Poltava about providing people and social facilities with hot water supplies. Jurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal closure of the School's branch No.12 in the village of the Red Road of the Lenin district of Poltava and the inaction of officials of local self-government. Alexander Sic to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to ensure the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens who have legal status as children of war. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of local executive authorities in the Montenegrin region regarding the closure of schools in the Zastavnov region of Cherniewec. Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Montenegrin District Council. Oleg Tajnibok to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the commission of illegal acts, which contain signs of obstacles to the exercise of powers by the Ukrainian National Deputies, journalists and the beating up of the Ukrainian national deputy, Eduardo Leonov, and the overriding of official powers by law enforcement authorities during the events of 19 August 2013 near Kyivrada. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of forcing employees to obtain certificates of treasury debt at $500 a.m. Sergey Topalova to Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of the sportsman of the assembly team of Ukraine from the Greek-Roman struggle, master of international class sports, silver champion of the 2013 European Championship of Eugen Orlov. Sergia Topalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for the development of children's sports schools, specialized sports schools of the Olympic reserve, comprehensive sports schools of children's and boys' schools, and higher sports skills for the development of the sports sector of Ukraine. Eugene Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal sale of the property of Lubomilsky’s inter-household specialist forestry company and the failure to carry out the decommissioning procedure after the liquidation. Eugene Melnik to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the non-payment of wages to employees of the Society with limited responsibility of Luganskshachtóstro, who were involved in the construction of mine No.10 "Novolinska". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u40	Please invite the deputies to the session room. We will now have a very important issue to consider with regard to the selection of out-of-order local elections. People's deputies please come into the session room. Honourable National Deputies, the word for this report, is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and the local self - government of Zvania, David Važajevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meetings on 20 March, 17 April, 19 June 2013, considered a total of 95 concerns of the individual local councils regarding the appointment of the 83 rural and 12 village heads on the basis of the early termination of their powers, in accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The relevant draft Regulations were registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with registration numbers: 1201-117, 1201-129 and 12101-133, 1201-215. And they have different dates for the election. Taking into account the untimely consideration of these draft regulations in the session hall, taking into account the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections, as part of the first article 15, which provides that the successive local elections are to be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than 60 days before the elections, the Committee decided at its meeting on 4 September this year to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft regulations with registration numbers: 1201-117, 1201-129 and 1201-133, 1201-215; to amend the date of the early local elections proposed in these bills on Sunday 15 December 2013. The materials were given to you. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, will there be questions? Is there a need to discuss the matter? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, yes. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u43	Request to the chairman to mobilize the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u44	The Freedom faction, the Peace People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u46	The word is given to Orotyuk, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u47	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Supreme Council was very slow in the process of appointing local elections. In fact, there are many popular places in rural, rural councils waiting for those elections. But likewise, the Supreme Council must do its constitutional duty, which relates to the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head in Kiev. These are the choices that are absolutely necessary. These are the elections that citizens have the right to be elected in their local communities to be responsible for the respective communities and for the state of affairs of the respective rural, village and city councils. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support the appointment of local elections. And this is the only form of providing the peoples of the government in places like the only form of ensuring the rights of the territorial communities at the local level to solve the issues of local importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor! Together, we made decisions in all cities, villages, village councils. And we really took a long time. So let us give all the factions today a friendly vote in favour of these issues that stand in order on the village councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u49	People's Deputy Dubnevich Jarosla, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u50	I ask you to pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u51	The word of Caplin Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u52	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, 44 constituency, Poltava City. Our faction will support this important document. Of course, this is necessary; we need to put serious order in local self - government. But at the same time, I would like to ask you as an expert responsible in Parliament to comment, for example, on the actions of the people we have already chosen. For example, the mayor of Poltava yesterday at a city council session for the fact that the councilman tried to force him to turn over the money he had set aside for repairing his way to school, so he told him in better traditions the mayor of Harkov. He says, "I'll multiply you by zero!" I'd like the whole country to know about these facts. We gave a proper assessment and turned to the city heads of all Ukraine not to embarrass the country in front of Europe where we now want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u53	Thank you. We are approached by many subjects of local self - government with various suggestions. In general, there are shameful phenomena that appear. Therefore, the committee responds to all these matters. We send out how we respond to these letters, even send them to the commission. Commissions regularly work on local self - government subjects where such issues arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u54	National MP Blackwolf, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, look. You're looking at a lot of election assignments. But the main local elections in the country, you understand that, are the elections to the city council of Kiev and the city's head, and you won't argue with that. At the same time, there's my appointment for October 27th, you haven't considered it, there's my decision in co-authorizing the appointment for November 10th, you haven't considered it. I think that the issue of elections in a capital where there's no city head for a year and a half and a half and there's no city council, that's a very important question. We don't need to refer to any decisions of the Constitutional Court, because that's where the next election is, let's go to 2 years of Kiyevrad for the next election. I, you may vote in favour, against or against, but you must not leave the authors of this bill with the right to have their bill considered in time. That's why I have a question for you. Why does the committee not bring this matter to the Supreme Council for voting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u56	Thank you, colleague. You've already sent a sixth bill to the committee, and all your bills have been considered in time. Many of them were considered positive, many were rejected. There's your bill on the committee right now. The committee next, two bills, next week the committee will be considering all the bills that come from the national MPs. So far, we haven't had the case of pending drafts coming to the committee in a timely fashion. So we'll keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u57	National Deputy Sabi, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopilish. David Vážajevich would like to remind you and your colleagues and all Ukrainians, two and a half years later, about 20 members of the Ternopil District Council cannot take up their duties. And I want to go to you personally and to the committee of profile, and now we have the new leaders of the Central Electoral Commission, and I think that maybe the situation will change somehow, and we'll have a formal request for or a replacement of the territorial commission, which is the second that can't do anything about it, and in principle solve the matter in fact. Because the Constitution of Ukraine is being violated, the legislation of Ukraine, 20 defenders, more than 100,000 Ternopilans are not represented in the highest representative body of the Ternopil region. Please take personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u60	Thank you, colleague. This is a matter of personal control on the committee. And we are doing everything we can to resolve this issue. And we'll do everything. We have even addressed the CLTC and will again address the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u61	National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u62	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear David Vážajevich, at the last meeting of the committee, a number of decisions were adopted regarding the elections. For a long time in Ukraine, this issue is unfortunately not being addressed, and up to one and a half hundred such decisions have already been accumulated. And the last decision we make is that to announce the election day in Ukraine is the only one on December 15. It is confirmed by yesterday’s decision on the five districts mentioned yesterday. And today there are village councils, village councils. But there is a small number of city councils. There are only nine of them here, except for Kiev, which has just been talked about by Blackwolf. Why we don't carry out even though these 9 are already in Kiev, let's say there are some problems. What are the problems with the 9 cities of Ukraine and another village council to select deputies? Why not confirm today and hold the December 15 elections in Ukraine at the same time?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u63	Thank you, colleague. We work with you on the committee. So we unanimously decided to assign December 15th to the elections in Ukraine, the early elections that will take place. So I think we're voting fruitfully today for all the factions. There is no politics here, in villages and village councils. People have been waiting for six months, after a year of this decision. And next week, I think we're also going to make a fruitful vote in places, according to measures that have already been taken by the committee's decisions today. It is very important for us to have a consensus found in the hall so that we have enough votes. So today let's vote in favour of villages, rural and village councils on elections, then we have seats, and we'll decide on Kiev. I would like to reiterate that next week the committee will be discussing the issue of early elections and in Kiev. If a consensus is found in the hall, it will be relevant and considered in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u64	Thank you, David Vajaevich, please sit down. I am voting on the draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of Catherine’s Rural Head (Catherinian Village Council of the Hersonian Region) (Registration No. 1201-11) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:46:37]] For 226 [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Region Party 95, Parenthood 42, Vitalia Klicka 24 and Freedom 30, Company 28, non-fractional 7. Decision taken, decision taken. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Golubov Rural Head, the Global Rural Council of the Kalinj district of Winnitsk district (registration number 1201-118) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. We've been invited ten times. [[11:47:22]] For 232 Decision taken, Order taken. On the appointment of the secondary elections of the Starakovrai Rural Head (Starakovrai Rural Council of the Cherkas region) (registration No. 1201-11) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:47:56]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the midterm elections of the Minyelian Rural Head (Minyal Village Council of the Saratsk district of Odessa) (Registration No. 1201-120) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:48:24]] For 232 Decision taken. On the appointment of consecutive elections for the Newcomoroche Rural Head (Newcomoroche Rural Council of the Galician Region of Johno-Frankow Region) (registration No. 1201-121) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:48:55]] For 230 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Minsk Rural Head (Minkow Village Council of the Donetsk Region) (registration number 1201-122) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:49:23]] For 228 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Goncharov Rural Head (Honcharov Rural Council of the Swatov District of Lugansk Region) (registration number 1201-123) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:49:52]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Tereblène Rural Head (Teblène Rural Council of the Głboecki Region of the Cherniewets region) (registration number 1201-124) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:50:22]] For 227 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Zabuyan Rural Head (Zabuyan Rural Council of the Makarov Region of Kyiv) (registration no. 1201-125) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[11:50:51]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Region Party 87, Parenthood 48, Vitalia Klicka 25, Freedom 31, Ukrainian Company 28, non-fractional 6. Let's go back and re-vote the decree. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote in favour of the ruling. Please vote. [[11:52:06]] For 230 We're back. So we have voices, we don't have to line up on the button. I am voting for the appointment of the Zabuyan village head (Zabuyan village council of Makarov district of Kyiv district) (registration no. 1201-125) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:51:32]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Privolenski Rural Head (Privolensen Rural Council of the Vilnius Region) (registration number 1201-126) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:52:38]] For 228 Decision taken. I'll take the order. On the appointment of the next election of the Privy Village Head (Pricuttowska Village Council of the Alexandrian Region of Kirovograd) (registration 1201-127) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:53:10]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 92, Parenthood 44, Vitaly Klicka Impact 24, Freedom 31, Ukraine Company 28, non-fractional 6. Shall we go back? I'm betting on the vote to return to the vote in favour of the ruling. Please vote. [[11:53:51]] For 234 We're back. To - 234. I bet for adoption as a basis and as a whole the Order (1201-127). Please vote. [[11:54:14]] For 232 I'll take the order. The appointment of the Fashtiv Village Head (Fashtiv Village Council of the Preval Region of Lugansk Region) (registration number 1201-128) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:54:43]] For 230 Decision taken. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Simei Village Head (Simei Village Council of the Yaltin City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (registration 1201-129) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:55:13]] For 229 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Rosdol Rural Head (the Rosdol Rural Council of the Pervomay region of Kharkiv Region) (registration 1201-133) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:55:42]] For 231 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the village head of Petrov (Peterov village council of the Shevchenkov district of Kharkiv district) (registration 1201-134) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:56:12]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Corobchin Rural Head (Corbin Rural Council of the Novomirgrad Region of Kirovograd) (registration 1201-135) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:56:41]] For 231 I'll take the order. About the appointment of successive elections of the Kudashiv Rural Head (Kudasiv Village Council of the Krynica District of the Dnipropetrovsk Region) (registration 1201-136) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:57:09]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of the Starosanjar Rural Head (Starosanjar Rural Council of the Novosanjar Region of Poltava) (registration 1201-137) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:57:39]] For 228 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Gordiya Rural Head (the Gordiya Rural Council of the Romani District of Žitomir Region) (registration 1201-138) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:58:07]] For 230 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections for the fishing head (Fishing Village Council of the Tatarbunar Region of Odessa) (registration 1201-139) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:58:35]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Podlisnomkarov Rural Head (Pedlisnomkarov village council of the Danube Region) (registration 1201-140) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:59:06]] For 232 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal for us to work without interruption, to do a fine job with you, and to vote for the election. Is it supported? Thank you. It's about assigning out-of-order elections. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote: work without interruption in order to vote on the rulings. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:58]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? Let me do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, let's use these 30 minutes to let our voters know we're working here, 30 minutes. And so half of the national MPs don't know where it is -- the semi-arid hall. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? We work all the time. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:00:39]] For 230 Decision taken. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Dniprovski Rural Head (Dniprovska Rural Council of the Chernigiv Region) (Registration No. 1201-141) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:01:07]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Horlub village head (Horlub village council of the Kivertsk district of Volin district) (registration number 1201-142) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:01:39]] For 229 I'll take the order. The appointment of the Kodakovsky Rural Head (Kodakow Rural Council of the Basilk district of Kiev) (registration number 1201-143) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:02:07]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 92, Fatherland 43, Vitaly Klicka 25, Freedom 31, Ukraine Company 28, non-factional 6. I'm betting on the vote to return to the vote in favour of this issue. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:02:43]] For 229 Decision taken. We're back. I make the decision for adoption as a basis and as a whole (1201-143). Please vote. [[12:03:07]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections in the Pleseck Rural Head (Plesec Village Council of the Basilk district of Kiev) (registration 1201-144) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:03:34]] For 229 I'll take the order. The appointment of consecutive elections of the Lehman Rural Head (Lehman Village Council of the Tatarbunar Region of Odessa) (registration 1201-145) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:04:02]] For 232 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Strukovsky Rural Head (Strukow Village Council of the Mikolai District of Odessa) (registration 1201-146) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:04:30]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Pirate Rural Head (the Pirate Village Council of the Radehiv Region of Lviv) (registration 1201-147) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:04:59]] For 232 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the secondary elections of the Oldomayorian Rural Head (Staromayorian Village Council of the Velionovosilk Region of the Donetsk Region) (registration 1201-148) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:05:30]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 95, Parenthood 42, Vitalia Klicka 26, Freedom 29, Ukraine 27, non-fractional 6. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote in favour of the ruling. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:06:10]] For 237 We're back. For 237. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole (registration 1201-148). Please vote. [[12:06:35]] For 239. I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Andrijaszov Rural Head (Andrijaszów Rural Council of the Berdichov District of the Žitomir Region) (registration 1201-149) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:07:07]] For 236 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Ivankovetsek Rural Head (the Ivankovetsk Rural Council of the Lanovets region of the Ternopil region) (registration 1201-150) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:07:38]] For 237 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Commission’s Rural Head (the Commission’s Rural Council of the first-level region of the Donetsk Region) (registration 1201-151) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:08:09]] For 237 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Primorski Rural Head (Primorje Rural Council of the Tatarbunar Region of Odessa) (registration No. 1201-152) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:08:37]] For 237 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the red-seated elections of the Red-Costantinian head (Red-Costantinian Village Council of the Kirovograd Region) (registration No.1201-153) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:09:10]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the secondary elections of the Chernechchin Rural Head (Chernechchin Rural Council of the Krasnopol Region of Suma Region) (registration No.1201-154) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:09:40]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Rygorodorecki Rural Head (Rajgorodorotic Rural Council of the Žitomir Region) (registration No.1201-155) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:10:11]] For 230 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Opišnjan Village Head (Opšnjan Village Council of the Zinkov Region of Poltava) (registration 1201-156) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:10:42]] For 232 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Tivrov village head (Tivrov village council of the Tivrov district of Vinicka region) (registration 1201-157) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:11:10]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the election of the Stone Village Head, the Stone Village Council of the province of Zaporozhye (registration 1201-158) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:11:40]] For 235 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Gorišnoslovobidski Rural Head (Horišnosvolobidje Rural Council of the Monastery Region of Ternopil) (registration 1201-160) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:12:13]] For 237 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Novoborisian Rural Head (Novoboris Village Council of the Great Bohemial Region of Odessa) (registration 1201-161) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:12:42]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Semerjek Rural Head (Semireżek Rural Council of the Heisinsk Region of the Winnitsky Region) (registration number 1201-162) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:13:10]] For 233 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Voivodship Rural Head (Vojevodska Rural Council of the Triotic Region of Lugansk Region) (registration number 1201-163) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:13:38]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive election of David’s village head (David’s Village Council of the Kitzman district of Cherniewec) (registration number 1201-164) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:14:06]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the next election of the Shepherd's Rural Head (Pastushiv Village Council of the Ternopil district of Ternopil district) (registration number 1201-165) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Shittowsky district. [[12:14:36]] For 227 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Osijek Rural Head (Osnińska Rural Council of the Kirovograd Region) (registration No. 1201-166) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:15:06]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Sudan Rural Head (Sudilla Rural Council of the Gluhiv district of Sumsk district) (register No. 1201-167). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:15:34]] For 227 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Urban Rural Head (Grodishtishten Rural Council of the Biolovod Region of Lugansk Region) (register No. 1201-168). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:16:05]] For 230 I'll take the order. The appointment of the Cropinian Rural Head (Cropivnian Rural Council of the Zolitani region of the Cherka region) (registration No. 1201-169) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:16:35]] For 232 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Bagachani Rural Head (Registration No. 1201-170). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:06]] For 229 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Swedish Rural Head (Switkow village council of the Drabów district of the Cherkas region) (Registration number 1201-171). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:17:35]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the extra-ordinary elections of the Ostapian Rural Head (Ostapius Village Council of the Mirgrad Region of Poltava) (registration number 1201-172) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:04]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of the Sredina Rural Head (Serdina Village Council of the Chernigiv Region) (registration number 1201-173) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:18:33]] For 231 It's been decided. On the appointment of successive elections of the Seminian Rural Head (Semenian Rural Council of the Lviv Region) (registration number 1201-174) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:19:04]] For 230 It's been decided. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Bushev Rural Head (Bushevo Rural Council of the Rockitnian Region of Kiev) (registration number 1201-175) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:19:32]] For 232 It's been decided. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Midanite Rural Head (Majdanetsk Rural Council of the Talniv Region of the Chernish Region) (registration number1201-176) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:20:00]] For 228 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Kolodystin Rural Head (Colodist Rural Council of the Talnivian Region of the Cherka Region) (registration 1201-177) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:20:30]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Pridniprovski Rural Head (Pridniprovska Rural Council of the Cherkas region) (registration 1201-178) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:21:01]] For 233 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Perejmian Rural Head (Perejmian Rural Council of the Baltic Odessa Region) (registration No. 1201-179) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:21:31]] For 232 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Keleberdian Rural Head (Keleberdian Rural Council of the Kaniv district of Cherkas) (registration number 1231 - 180) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:22:02]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Stepani Rural Head (Stepani Rural Council of the Lugini Region of the Žitomir Region) (registration 1201-181) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:22:33]] For 231 I'll take the order. About the appointment of the successive elections of the Hotiyev Rural Head (Hottiv Village Council of the Chernigiv District) (registration 1201-182) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:02]] For 236 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Ivashkovetski Rural Head (Ivashkovetske Rural Council of the Chargograd Region of Vinnitsk Region) (registration 1201-183) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:32]] For 233 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections for the Dubovetsek Rural Head (Dubovetsk Rural Council of the Galician Region of Ivano-Frankov Region) (registration 1201-184) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:02]] For 233 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Lazarkovsky Rural Head (Lazkow Rural Council of the Orzic Region of Poltav Region) (registration 1201-185) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:24:33]] For 235 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Malaysian Rural Head (Malayiv village council of the Krasnooknian district of Odessa) (registration 1201-186) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:02]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of the Monastiretian Rural Head (Monastiretic Rural Council of the Jewish Region of Lviv Region) (registration 1201-187) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:25:32]] For 232 Decision taken. The appointment of the Matiasov Rural Head (Matyasov Rural Council of the Berezan Region of the Mikolai Region) (registration 1201-188) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:26:01]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the United Rural Head (United Village Council of the Novgorod-Siberian Region of Montenegro) (registration number 1201-189) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:26:32]] For 228 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Island Head (Ostrian Rural Council of the Rokitnian Region of Kiev) (registration number 1201-190) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:04]] For 230 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of Rogachev village head (Rogachev village council of the Baraniv district of Žitomir district) (registration number 1201-191) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:27:35]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of the Towkačov Rural Head (Tukkatov Rural Council of the Prilutski District of Chernigiv Region) (registration 1201-192) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:28:06]] For 232 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the alternate election of the Mitchenkov Rural Head (Mitchenkov Rural Council of the Bachmatic region of Chernigiv Region) (registration 1201-193) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Bachmite. [[12:28:36]] For 226 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of Strumkovsky Rural Head (Strumkow Village Council of the Tatarbunar Region of Odessa) (registration 1201-194) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:07]] For 228 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of the Inter-Irerickiv Rural Head (Mežyricivska Rural Council of the Golovanov Region of Kyrovograd) (registration 1201-195) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:29:38]] For 229 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Nitsach Rural Head (Nitzach Village Council of the Trieste District of Suma Region) (registration 1201-196) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. May I have the people's deputies vote? [[12:30:13]] For 227 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Bannunin village head (Bannunin village council of Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv district) (registration no. 1201-197) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:30:45.]] For 234 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Ribin Rural Head (Ribin Rural Council of the Chernigiv District) (registration 1201-198) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:31:15]] For 230 I'll take the order. About the appointment of successive elections of the Mostensian Rural Head (Morsten Village Council of the Kovell district of Volin Region) (registration 1201-199) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:31:44]] For 229 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Lubakhiv Rural Head (Ljubachiv Village Council of the Volodymyrecki District of the Plain Region) (registration 1201/2001) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. There's not much left, there's 20 decrees left. [[12:32:15]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 94, Fatherland 37, Vitaly Klicka Strike 27, Freedom 31, Ukraine Company 29, non-fractional 6. I would like to vote on the motion to return to the vote of this order. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:32:53]] For 233 Decision taken. We're back. I'll bet the vote on the basis and in general the decree (1201-200). Please vote. [[12:33:18]] For 229 I'll take the order. The appointment of the Connonian Rural Head (Connon’s Rural Council of the Biological Region of Lugansk Region) (registration 1201-11) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:33:46]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Wesselkian Rural Head (the Wesselkian Rural Council of the Lubar district of Žitomir district) (registration 1201-2012) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:18]] For 228 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Lublin Rural Head (Lviviv Region’s Ljubljana Rural Council) (registration 1201-2013) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:34:48]] For 231 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections of Timchenkovsky Rural Head (Tymchenkow Rural Council of the Cherkas region of Cherkas region) (registration No.1201-2004) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:19]] For 229 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the next election of the Lisnołobidsk Seine Head (Lisnołobidsk village council of the Cologne District of Johno-Frankov Region) (registration No. 1201-2015) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:35:49]] For 227 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Balkan Rural Head (Balandin Village Council of the Kamyan District of Cherkas) (registration No. 1201-2016) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:18]] For 228 I'll take the order. About the appointment of the Ugrinjski Rural Head (Ugrinivska Rural Council of the Ternopil Region) (registration No. 1201-2017) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:36:49]] For 229 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the Kopankovsky Rural Head (Copankow Rural Council of the Kalu District of Johno-Frankiv Region) (Registration No. 1201-2018) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:23]] For 228 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Apollonian Rural Head (the Apollonian Village Council of the Sahnovština District of Kharkiv Region) (registration 1201-2019) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:37:55]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Mirnów Village Head (Mirnov Village Council of the Eupatoria City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (Registration 1201-210) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:26]] For 233 I'll take the order. About the appointment of consecutive elections of the Clevan Village Head (Clevan Village Council of the Plains Region) (registration 1201-211) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:38:57]] For 234 I'll take the order. The appointment of the New Fedorian Village Head (New Fedorian Village Council of the Sachs district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (registering 1201-212) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:26]] For 230 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Bilolutsk Village Head (Biolutsk village council of the Novopskovsky region of Lugansk Region) (registering 1201-213) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:39:56]] For 234 I'll take the order. On the appointment of successive elections for the New World Village Head (New World Village Council of the Donetsk Region) (registration 1201-214) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:27]] For 232 I'll take the order. On the appointment of the successive election of the Komsomol Village Head (Comsomol Village Council of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv) (Registration No. 1201-215) for adoption as a whole and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:40:58]] For 233 I'll take the order. A total of 95 decrees have been voted on to appoint out - of - turn local elections. Dear National Deputies, the draft Order (registration number 2364a) on the renaming of the village of Binov in the region of Lviv Region is under consideration. Shall we discuss it? I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2364a) on the renaming of the village of Binov in the region of Lviv for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:42:08]] For 231 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have almost 20 minutes to begin with on the agenda for the "Variance" issue. There are three suggestions. First offer. We can continue to announce the questions that have come. Second offer. We can consider the answers to the requests of the national deputies that left them dissatisfied. Third. We can start speaking to the National Deputies of the Miscellaneous. Enquiries? I'm putting these motions in order of order of order to vote, honourable national MPs. I'm betting on a motion to continue the call for proposals that have been made. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:17]] For-141 The offer is not supported. For 141 people's deputies. I am voting on the proposal to consider the answers to the requests of the national MPs that they have remained dissatisfied with. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:43:45]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The offer is not supported. I'm betting on voting the proposal to start speaking to the national MPs on a variety of issues right now. People's deputies, please vote. We have to, according to the Rules. [[12:44:11]] For-191 We didn't make any decisions. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u65	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, calm down. The last third vote was to be voted on, or not to be voted on. Because, according to the Rules, on Fridays from 13 to 14 o'clock we've got "Virgin." Since you and I have voted to work without interruption today, we have every reason to start "Virgin" 15 minutes early. This is one moment. The other one. We've done a full day's work today, except for the last question that stands in "The Difference." So, Igor Grigorovich, you have every reason to make a recording on "Rizzna." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Faction Hit, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Vice Speaker! Dear colleagues! We're still suggesting that we use these 15 minutes to announce requests, those that haven't been able to read. We've come back from our summer vacations, and a lot of colleagues and you all in this room, including preparing enough parliamentary requests, which are also an important part of our work. And so we ask, let's go back to Mr. Kaletnik for 15 minutes to read the MPs' announcements, the MPs' requests, and from 13 o'clock we'll start speaking to the Ukrainian national MPs. Please return to this question and use these 15 minutes to announce your requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u68	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Žuravsky, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we have democratically voted for three proposals. The highest number of votes in the rating vote was 191, and the third sentence was to move on to the Vulnerable. I'd like to start with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u70	From the Freedom faction, the People's Deputy Kyle.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Now we've seen from the vote how anyone wants to work. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union voted in the same way for all three proposals in full stock. Since there is a question, questions need to be answered. They're not happy with the answers. Instead, the faction of the Party of Regions, let's open the vote and see how they voted. And Giurabski's goodness is not to be misled by the Ukrainians, as if you wanted to look at both. You've ruined the first question, both the second and the third. Your faction is practically gone. Maybe a third or a quarter is. That's how you want to work, that's how you feel about the Ukrainian people, so you want to look at and answer them. In itself, you don't want to hear any claims against your leaders who are currently writing to the national MPs and who don't want to solve the essentially painful issues of our electorate. And yours, including, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u72	By the faction of "The Fathers" Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, Mr. Igor Grigorovich, I understand what an awkward situation you're in right now, because in fact, it is clearly written in the Rules, at which time the "Variance" should begin. And here you're absolutely right. The other thing that might happen is that we're offered an examination of the issues, and it's very clear that these issues will be dealt with by the time the Rules begin. I'm making a new proposal, Yuri Grigorovich, if we already have a lie of time, why don't we continue to consider the assignment of local elections? Because the committee has prepared two decrees, and today we've only considered one -- rural, rural, respectively, heads. And there's two dozen more city heads. Let's at least vote on some of them, and then we can find a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u74	Everyone made a statement. Perhaps we can see that there are fewer national deputies in the hall. Therefore, your offer may hardly be supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't stop working! Don’t interfere! the required number of votes of the national MPs. That's why I'm putting the people's deputies in line for the day at the Miscellaneous's. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the People's Deputy of the Dove. He gives the word to the national deputy Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u75	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. On September 2, 2013, the judge of the District Administrative Court of Kiev, Schramko, opened proceedings in the case of the so-called political party "The European Party of Ukraine" to the Company of Ukraine to prohibit the holding of meetings of Ukrainian citizens on the organization of the All-U.S. referendum at the National Initiative and the Central Electoral Commission from sending representatives to these congregations. We consider such actions by judges of Schramko to be notoriously wrong, and the adoptions are notoriously unjust in view of the following. By revealing the conduct of this case and prohibiting the holding of congregations, the judge disregarded the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which sovereignty and the only source of authority in Ukraine is the people (art. 5); social life in Ukraine is based on the principles of political, economic and ideological multimanity; and no ideology can be recognized by the State as compulsory; the State guarantees freedom of political activity not prohibited by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine (art. 15); citizens have the right to participate in the administration of state affairs, in the entire Ukrainian and local referendums (art. 38). In addition, by establishing such a prohibition, the court violated the constitutional requirements for freedom of meeting set out in article 39 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The resolutions were also accepted by Shramko in violation of administrative law. Thus, the judge disregarded the rules governing the jurisdiction of the administrative courts and the jurisdiction of the disputes, since, in accordance with articles 3, 17 and other Codes of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, the stated dispute could not be dealt with before the administrative court, and the European Party of Ukraine was not a proper challenger in such a case. In its illegal adoption of the prohibition of assembly as a measure of judicial security, the judge noted, inter alia, that the court concurred with the arguments of the plaintiff, i.e. the "European Party", that, through the organization of the All-U.S. referendum on Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union, obstacles could be created to the implementation by the State of foreign policy, in fact, its decision by the judge severely violated administrative and procedural law since it had declared the actions of the ICPO unlawful before the start of the case. In addition, the actions of the judges severely violate the legislation on the U.S. referendum, which provides for appropriate congregations of Ukrainian citizens to be held in the presence of members of the CLTC. The Company's actions to convene citizens' assemblies to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum did not violate the rights of any party, especially legislation, because according to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, the Ukrainian people can not only determine the principles of foreign policy, but also implement their exclusive right to adopt Ukrainian laws. We believe that all the violations noted allow you to assess Shramko’s actions as criminal, and we will take appropriate action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u76	People's MP, the Freedoms faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u77	Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u78	The orphan has been given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u79	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainian community! From this rostrum, I would like to address the senior officials of the Ukrainian authorities as to the situation that arose with the thorphobic industry in Ukraine. I've written repeatedly questions about MPs, appeals, all sorts of possible institutions about the situation in this area. What do we have to do with the thorphobic industry? In fact, Ukraine has huge reserves of peat and briquette. These stocks are estimated at trillions of dollars. With these stocks, we can cover the population of Ukraine with domestic fuel for 100 years. The government’s interest in this area today is seen in the decision to simplify the provision of pears. Tuesday we voted, unfortunately, without discussing tax benefits for the peat industry. But other things happen at the same time. In the spring of this year, all thorphobic factories, which are legally state-owned, were captured by raiders who entered Wolinthorf, Rulforf, Cherkasitorf and methodically work to destroy the peat industry. I just want to tell you about the situation that took place in Smigatorfi, the only working thorphobic factory in the Plain region. In the spring of this year, management was changed. A working business where people received over a thousand dollars more than the average salary in the area was converted into a bankrupt enterprise over a six - year period. Two million dollars from the company. Over the past week alone, he stole 70 tons of torfobriquet for more than 20,000 dollars! Unfortunately, my appeals to the Attorney General's Office, to the police, to the Ministry, have no effect. David's former director, Igor Mikolaiovich, destroyed a similar enterprise in Cercasitorf, where they separated production from sales. Where people have made huge money, and today the company in Chercas is on its knees, it has millions of debts. The same is true today with Smigatorf, where 20 percent of the group are trying to drive out. Where fictitious accounts are created. All of this is a sign that, unfortunately, under the cover of a state - owned enterprise, a company today has acquired raid structures and is being alienated from state property. Regrettably, the Supreme Council gives undue attention to this situation. Because on an industrial policy committee where we, freedom deputies, tried to propose changes to the law and leave these enterprises state-owned, even some of the deputies from the opposition for reasons that were not clear voted and created a way to corporateize this enterprise. And today, from this rostrum, I would like to warn all the raiders that they will be personally criminally responsible for what they do. For example, today, the director appointed by Smigatorf, director of Irina Ivanovna Timoschuk, is a government official who is assigned to arrange a situation for Smigatorf, who does nothing to bring the situation back to normal, to leave the business to the workers. That's why I want my speech to be evaluated as a request to the Attorney General's Office. So that the raiders, the buyers of these businesses, are properly criminally responsible and claim that Freedom will protect every employee of the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u80	People's MP Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Yuri Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u82	Yuri Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Today’s secondary education in Ukraine has reached its climax. From different parts of Ukraine comes information as if it were from the war fronts of closing secondary schools. Ivano-Frankovščina, Bogoradčany district, Rakovets village. More than 200 children are trained in adapted facilities, some of them over 100 years old, in accommodations. For several years now, executive authorities have promised to build a new school, but the foundation of the matter has not gone away. Volinsk oblast, Kamen-Kashir district, Osovtsi village. School is falling apart. From September 1, parents refused to send their children to school. To this day, most children do not go to school. Harsh. Lubotic High School No.5 closes the 10th grade. This is the first step towards closing the school. In the current year, 12 schools in the countryside have been optimized. Starting with the closure of small-scale rural schools, Yanukovich’s regime reached full - size secondary schools in villages, reicenters, and even in our district center of Poltava. Motivating the economy, between 30 and 40 children are taken to classes. According to the official website of the President of Ukraine, I quote: "Vektor Yanuković's command successfully implements the fundamental modernization of all the links of the preschool, secondary and higher education system. The government and local authorities are spending considerable money on restocking schools, repairing premises, and purchasing textbooks. The Cabinet of Ministers is doing everything to ensure that the new school year starts in a timely manner and becomes a bright and meaningful holiday for children and parents." They are soft but sound in their sleep. In fact, for children and parents of the village of the Red Road in Poltava, this educational year has really become vivid and meaningful. Children were expelled from primary school, the school was robbed, and the children were provided with an emergency bus, which was placed on their parents. The village of the Red Road in Poltava has had its primary school No.12 since 1947. More than 50 children are enrolled in school. Preschool children are potentially forming full - time classes of 25 to 33 children. The nearest school is located three miles [3 km] from which bus traffic is banned because the road is in an emergency. At the end of the school year, in June, the village’s parents ’ community from their poor salaries prepared the school for the start of the new school year alone. But Mr. Mama, the city head, did not like it, so he ordered the school to be robbed to force his parents to take their children to another school three miles [3 km] away. The Marauders ripped the decorative panels off the walls, took the chandeliers, ripped off the switches, even snatched the water cooler that was purchased at the parent's expense. During the summer, the community of villages conducts more than one congregation, caresses the city council, tries to get into the city’s head, but the latter ignores the community. Parents fail to reach out to the authorities. Thus, the first bell festival is held under the walls of the city council. Power can't hear. Today, the children are in my community center, and parents do not generally take their children to school. I'm talking to the benefactors from the Party of Regions. Please mind your city head from the Party of Regions so he can finally hear the community and open the school. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u84	The National MP of the Yanks is handing over the Zelik People's Deputy, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u85	Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! On the basis of the facts I have found during the visits to the region of Visniwski and Zastava, the issue of medical reform in Ukraine is extremely acute. Medical institutions at all levels are seeing massively the restructuring of hospital hospitals due to the sad reform of the medical sector. The most suffering is in the countryside, because there's a massive complaint about the closure of the field and obstetric points, and in order for the ambulance to arrive, we have to pay for the money. In local hospitals, the salaries of health - care workers are declining, and the number of medical posts is decreasing. The situation at the Viknian district hospital of the Zastavnov region of Cherniewec region is extremely lamentable. Despite significant financial cuts, the number of patients does not decrease, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of medical care for patients. An example of the sad consequences of the first step in medical reform. and there are lost human lives in the Vashkovetssky district hospital, where on July 1, 2013, the TB ward was closed. A month later, a patient who was constantly on the payroll was asked to receive immediate assistance, but he was denied assistance in connection with the absence of a Tubdispanser and was sent to the district center of Chernivci. As a result of the failure to provide such needed and immediate assistance, the patient, Andrew Roche, died in the yard of a hospital on the doorstep of a hospital. On July 24, however, another ridiculous death of Andrew’s sister, Julia Rohoch, was observed to have suffered from tuberculosis. These and many other unacceptable consequences of medical reform have been reported to me by doctors at the Vashkovetssky District Hospital during the reception of citizens at a community center on August 17. Concerned doctors look forward to the planned closure of the maternity and surgical wards. Another painful question from the medical staff was to find out the reasons why ambulance drivers were forced to use cars at their expense. That is, buying fuel, detail, and replacing worn - out items, repairing long - written ambulances. The cost to drivers is not equal to the cost. Moreover, health - care workers and ambulance drivers have lost medical supplies for specific working conditions. As a result of all these factors, young medical professionals refuse to work according to their profession. I urge the people's deputies to focus their attention on the problems that have been raised. And I'm sure that these problems not only exist in several areas and certain areas, but are widespread throughout Ukraine. My statement please consider the MP's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u86	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Shugalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u87	Roman Shugalo, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Today, I would like to draw attention to the problem of gasification of rural areas. Because at almost every meeting and in every area, the unfinished construction of the pipeline is raised by the villagers. In Soviet times, gas distribution networks were built in rural areas in district centers. Gas distribution networks were built at the expense of public utilities and companies. While the rate of gasification was hundreds of times higher. For example, in 1970 alone, more than 10,000 cities, towns, and rural settlements were gassed. For comparison between 2010 and 2012, only 273 gas pipelines were built and put into operation, bringing gas to 328 locations. In the independent state of Ukraine, for the purpose of demonstrating the gasification of the villages, the reicenters were designed for themselves to be Ukrainian lochotrons of the people’s funds and the acquisition of stock companies, the frauds of the population’s property. In Ukraine there has never been or will never be any cost of building medium - and low - pressure gas networks in populated areas. There's never any money in the Naftogaz of Ukraine. The rural population that wanted to receive gas should have been united into public associations or cooperatives. The population was to give blood. In the people's building, the cost of a cooperative was to order and pay for projects in institutions, not general ones, but just work projects. On the other hand, they issued appropriate technical requirements, in addition to strictly technical requirements, where property requirements were unlawfully entered. Once the construction is completed, the gas distribution networks of the cooperatives would have to transfer the built networks free of charge to the balance of the fraud — the monopoly in operation and maintenance. In doing so, the ostracisms pointed to public associations, cooperatives with whom contracts were to be concluded, and those with whom there was no need. As a result, the actual cost of construction contracts greatly exaggerated the cost, and materials were purchased at inequitable and overpriced prices, which also exaggerated the cost of materials. All this difference lay on the shoulders of the common people. In the event that cooperatives refused to accept these conditions, such villages are still waiting. After the illegal transfer to the branch of private property fraud, all these associations died quietly, and their private property, costing tens and hundreds of millions of dollars, became the property of counterfeits. And this whole state affair has developed with the violation of articles 13, 19 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the requirements of the Civil Code, the Master’s and countless laws of Ukraine. The faction of the Company of Ukraine draws attention to the problem and requires an immediate solution, stressing once again the need for a first-line solution to social issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u88	The People's Deputy of the Quéne, the Faction of the UDA, conveys the word of Jaroslav Dubnevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u89	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Vitalia Klitschka faction, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the problem of financing jobs in socially important subjects such as schools, hospitals, kindergartens at the expense of the state budget. It is not a secret that most government budget expenditure consists of protected articles, but from year to year the corresponding amounts are also paid for development costs. Unfortunately, most of the work at the expense of the state is going to start or continue to be implemented in the third-fourth quarter of the budget year. The reason for this is the late adoption of administrative decisions in the form of a recalculation of inter-budgetary transfers from the State budget to local budgets and the procedures for recalculating inter-budget transfers between local budgets. In plain language, this means stretching with papers that regulate the recalculation of government funds. The practice of the largest expansion of construction and road works in the autumn-winter period does not only have a negative impact on the further quality of socio-economic objects. Casual problems, which are becoming traditional, cause periods of work to break down, transfer them to the next budget periods, and thus cost them to the state treasury and transfer their terms into service. That is why our voters have waited so long for new kindergartens and schools and for repairs in them. Along with the other National Deputies of the Interfractional Union "Libyan Women" we are drafting bills that are to be put into practice within a three-month deadline for the approval of all budgetary programmes and procedures for the recalculation of inter-budget transfers for the current year. This will enable real assurance of the principles of timeliness, equivalency, guarantees and full counting of transfers that have been enshrined in the Ukrainian Budget Code. And in practice, we have to end the shameful phenomena of making asphalt in winter, building on ice and other abrasive robots that are forced to do today because of the long movement of papers and the delay in making the right decisions. I call on all deputies to join the work in this direction and to support such bills in the session room. We must lift our homeland from the ruins. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u90	Thank you, sit down. The faction of the Company of Ukraine is the national deputy of Bidovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u91	To date, the principle of implementing programmes related to the eradication of orphanages in Ukraine is a matter of concern. [[B in m in s a l in]] Numerous media stories suggest that many officials approach the national programme for overcoming poverty in Ukraine thoughtlessly and recklessly. An article by Alina Kush “Mariopolski Deputies Have Reached Children’s Issues” was published in the newspaper Volos Ukraine. The article refers to the intention of the Commissioner for Children's Rights of the President of Ukraine, Pavlenko, to virtually exterminate the Children's House of the Child Care Centre in the city of Mariupole. I was in this children's home and had the opportunity to see that his work was effective. Its model not only has the right to exist but also to disseminate its own experience throughout the State. A children's home was established as a new type of shelter for children from birth to 18 years, taking into account the legal framework at the time. In time, he was visited by the Minister of Education, Nikolaenko, Minister of Family and Youth Affairs of Pavlenko, Deputy Minister of Health of Moiseenko. They welcomed the collective's innovative approach to addressing the problems of orphans and the successful integration of educators. For example, during the 14 years of his establishment, he had no complete offence or crime, and no child escape had been registered. The practice of sponsoring is widely used by a residential care centre, so children are always fed, including vitamins and well-dressed. In my view, this is due to the fact that the institution is based on the family principle of keeping orphans from birth to adulthood and not destroying the family. A brother lives with a brother, a sister with a sister. I was surprised by the position of Mr. Pavlovenko, who, during his last visit to the children’s home, stated that the institution was outdated, out of law, and offered to return the institution to the old classical structure. What prevents us from fully studying the experience of the institution and legitimizing it is that it is distributed throughout the country. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed carefully in the High Council's Sectoral Commission, taking into account the long-standing positive experience of the Trusteeship Centre. I would like to ask the Ministry to decide on the organization of an all-Ukrainian-level experiment based on the Mariupol Trusteeship Centre. And I want to add to myself that it's always easier to destroy than it is to rebuild. Let us, therefore, always have positive experience in taking it into account and disseminating it throughout the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u92	National Deputy Zharavsky. One minute, a line. One minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u93	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would like to introduce the village of Radotok, in the region of Žitomirsk, to a list of locations to refer to the zone of radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The loss of status led to the illegal deprivation of the benefits provided by the law. In particular, citizens are not provided with an additional paid vacation; those who have received an illness while living in a polluted area cannot properly form a disability, receive free medicine; they have lost their pension insurance for free privatization of their homes; they are not paid money for food products; they are threatened with extended health and nutrition in schools and kindergartens. Consider my statement as a request from the Ukrainian National Deputy to Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov of Ukraine. I believe he'll hear me. And thank you to the representative of Liberty for giving me the opportunity to speak in terms of my own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u94	National MP Andriy Shevchenko, "The Fatherland" faction, gives his speech to the National MP Roman Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I'm going to talk today about Ukrainephobia or the mobilization of Ukraine. Where Is Ukraine Today? On the path of retreat and deaf defense. It is no secret that today new and new threats are being posed to national identity and culture. Chaos, a non - state information policy, a riot of imperial Russian ideologies, the destructive actions of the great capital have put Ukraine in the dead of defense. This is discussed by all who stand firm nationalists — public figures, scientists, politicians. What is today a particular threat to the Ukrainian nation, to the state? Total loss of power in protecting Ukrainian-information space, bookmaking, film industry. Propagandist manipulations, legal restrictions, intimidation are all types and methods of fighting the Ukrainian nation, against Ukrainian culture. Today, Ukrainianophobia has two main orientations: open and hidden. In the first case, when we see this open direction, the phenomenon of Ukrainephobia is the result of the anti-state policy of Ukraine's ruling elites, which do not ensure the proper level of political self-defence of the state as it is in every democratic national state of the world, first of all, in Europe. In the second case, the hidden Ukrainianophobia is the result of the growth in society of mercanthal, irresponsible, anarchistic sentiments that lead to various pragmatic and production unions, and here might be a striking example of the Party of Regions. My friends, in view of the above, believe that the time is ripe, a historic time to form a new strategy of nationalism. There could be a lot of roads here. For example, in each of the regions of Ukraine, for district and historic lands -- Volin, Polís, Slobožanščina -- regional assemblies of civil activists can be convened, the participation of district council members, local councils who consider it necessary today to participate in the national programme for the national offensive to Ukraine. It is worth finally understanding both the community and the authorities, and it is clear to us that this shameful, disgusting phenomenon of Ukrainianophobia can be overcome only in the national state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u96	Thank you, sit down. The People's Deputy of Lapin Kseniya, faction of Fatherland, conveys the word to John Stoyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Sir, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. In the course of Roman Ilik's speech, I would like to point out that on September 3, this year, in Kharkiv, 17, a building in Sumskia, 17, where there lived an outstanding linguist, a historian, a famed Yuri Shevelov, was solemnly opened and a memorial sign was set up — a memorial board in honor of him. Who is Yuri Chevelov, I think the people in this room who practice the national idea know. But for those of you who don't know, I'm going to say that this is the National Shevchenk Prize laureate, this is the Honorary Dr. Kyevo-Magilianka and the University of Kharkiv, this is the Professor of Columbia and Harvard University, this is the person who celebrated Ukraine worldwide as a great Ukrainian. Sadly, his name was banned in Soviet times. And so today Shevelov, like many other Ukrainians, is returning to Ukraine. But unfortunately, the Harkowe City Council, at the opening of this board, is putting pressure on those public figures who are doing the big job today. In addition, we have learned that individual employees are without a reason to initiate the issue of the lifting of valid licenses and instructions for the establishment of a board, using solely political considerations. Moreover, representatives of the Kharkiv area appear. More loyally, their actions do not seem strange in the context of comments by the very head, the district manager, the famous Dobkin who called Yuri Shevelov, our great Ukrainian, the helper of the fascists. You know, Yuri Chewellov wrote about 900 papers. If this uneducated Dobkin had read at least one of them, he would have thought otherwise. But. Unfortunately, we have what we have today. And that's why I find it unacceptable, with the leadership status of the area, to make such offensive statements at the address of the Ukrainian scientist Dobkin, and I'm asking him to make public excuses for this. I also demand that law enforcement guards protect and prevent the vandals from being dismantled or destroyed, as has been the case repeatedly in our recent history, the memorial sign of Yuri Chevelov in Kharkiv. It seems that with the beginning of the new political season, the region again began to search for fascists in Ukraine. After the anti-fascist failures that we've all seen, we've all been regionalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Please have a seat. Turn on the microphone to complete the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u99	I want there to be no search for fascists in the past. That's why nothing's going to work out for you, dear. The great Ukrainians will return to Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u100	The National Deputy of Balandin, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is transferring his right to speak to the National Deputy Mikhailenko Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u101	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonschina, Chaplinka Dear Igor Grigorovich! People's deputies, voters! Hersonian Communists once again address the abuse of power by the authorities of the Hersonian region in the field of land relations. One of the last examples is a powerful testimony to that. A private company called CHONGAR, located in the Hellenic region of the Herson region, voluntarily uses 945.44 hectares of agricultural land. These are the land of supply, the unexploded pies and the reserve fund, the land of government property. The damage to the state and the owners of land particles, the rations resulting from the arbitrary occupation of land areas, amount to more than a million dollars. These are the funds that our citizens are now in dire need of health, education, culture, and social protection. Those egregious facts have been established by the Administration of Land Control and Protection of the State Agricultural Inspectorate in the Herson region for my request. I am impressed by the various answers from the district attorney’s office on this issue. The prosecutor of the area of Witnessko has been declared inactive because he finds that the land is self - centered and self - centered! Three weeks earlier, the prosecutor of the district of Kuzmenko observed that the land had been used voluntarily by the private firm CHONGAR, which was the responsibility of the head of the Nimetullaev and his wife. Another example. The Skadovian territorial community lost part of the land in the children’s recreation zone on the Black Sea coast under the direction of the head of the Herson district administration of Kostjak. This is at a time when the Skadovian decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is granted the status of a child’s health care professional. For obedience, the head of the Skadovian and Rajtin administration appoints the district manager as its first deputy, and the grateful Ustinov assigned the last honorary title to the citizen of the Skadovian region. The third example. A private entrepreneur named Botirenko rents state property in Chaplinsky and Calanchik areas, does not pay local budgets rent, does not enforce court decisions. And the heads of the Borislav and Malishenko Reich administrations are just watching. The same situation with the sad society of Vishva Ananda, for which I spoke on several occasions and which owed people both rent and salary. So we demand that the law enforcement agencies take professional action to protect the interests of the Hersonian communities and to bring responsibility to those officials who do not care about social needs, but who promote abuse and defiantly violate existing legislation in the field of land relations. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary act.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's Deputy Golovko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u103	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 4, Parliament held an open committee hearing of the Committee on Economic Policy on Trade War, which the Russian Federation today announced to Ukraine. The Association of Entrepreneurs, Industrialists, and Producers, they have asked us to stand up for our defenses because, to this day, the authorities have taken no action to protect our manufacturer. We see that Russia has practically declared trade war on Ukraine, blocked more than 70 kinds of goods that today cannot enter the Russian market. This is a huge damage to the Ukrainian economy. We understand the cause of all these actions. Today, the Kremlin is in agony and is working hard to prevent the signing of the EU-Ukraine Agreement Association. But we are not convinced that it will happen, for our choice has long been made by the Ukrainian people. The Russian Federation has been in constant condition with Ukraine since 1991, we have been constantly seeing gas wars, then Tuzlu, now commercial wars, and it will never calm down. Because the Kremlin's ambitions, the building of its empire of "Russian measure," and for that, they need to be able to engage Ukraine in their orbit. But Ukraine is an independent state, and we have no doubt made our European choice. We can't even compare, because the economy of the Customs Union is far behind, it's just 2.5 percent of the world's GDP. At the same time, the European Union is more than 26 percent of GDP. We need to take radical action today to protect our manufacturers who are addressing us today. Therefore, our committee has proposed the preparation of a Supreme Council decision to adopt and address the Cabinet of Ministers, to the President, at the same time to the EU, to the World Trade Organization and to the Russian Federation on the non-admission of such acts of force, the application of economic war and trade war on Ukraine. And on our side, of course, they're looking for Ukraine to adequately evaluate. Because neither the government nor the President even responded. When the trade war began, we see Azarov leave, opens up another Russian school, bends his head again to the Moscow Khan, and shows his loyalty, at the same time, without defending Ukrainian interests. Instead of giving a proper estimate, because Russia is also dependent on Ukraine, they have only a quarter of their investment turnover of more than 10 billion and supply their products to Ukrainian markets. We can apply different influences, but it takes political will. We have it. Of course, we will raise this issue in Parliament and we will demand that we protect our manufacturers and entrepreneurs and thus protect the Ukrainian economy. We have to look for new markets for damages and our economy, and Ukrainian independence never is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u105	We need to understand that we will never be strong and independent until we have an independent Ukrainian economy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u106	The People’s Deputy of the Road, a faction of the Party of the Regions, hands over the right to speak to the national deputy of Momot. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u107	Alexander Momot, Party of Regions, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear fellow MPs! Respectful voters, listeners, TV viewers! I want to raise a question about our future, young people. I represented in the Supreme Council the interests of the 27th Majority District of Dnipropetrovska. This area is home to most of our city’s higher education institutions, where more than 50,000 students are enrolled. So I am well aware of what is relevant to young people. One of the most topical issues is that of students in manufacturing practices in enterprises in higher education and the acquisition of working skills. Today, the practice is more formal. Future experts do not get the necessary useful experience in business, do not know the internal processes and requirements of employers. As an expert, a mining engineer has never seen a machine, a metallurgy, a pilot, or an aircraft engineer with his own eyes — a jet engine. Examples are many and, unfortunately, our reality. As a result of the above, young experts are confronted with the employer’s requirement to hire an experienced coworker who is not to be taught. On the other hand, employers are not motivated or interested in giving jobs to students to go through practice, spending time and resources on teaching prospective professionals, paying them their salaries, and so forth. Thus, there is a closed circle in which young professionals do not have sufficient experience and understanding of the basics of the profession, and the employer is dissatisfied with the quality of training. I'm sure this problem isn't just Dnipropetrovsk, it's national. As far as the Higher Education Act is concerned. This law should be reasonable, taking into account interests and higher education, students, and employers. Regrettably, it is common for deputies to fail to take into account the interests of those for whom they create this law. And I insist that every bill should go through the stages of public debate. Along with my fellow deputies, I propose to amend the Higher Education Act. And to make these changes fair and clear, we held a round table to which we invited the heads of higher education institutions, employers' companies, students. I call on you, Your Honor, as representatives of the legislature to join the dialogue. You can make your own proposals, your own vision of changes in legislation. You can submit your views to the Committee of Science and the Soviets or to me. We need to find the best solution that bothers millions of Ukrainians. I'm waiting for your suggestions. I'm sure we can find it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u109	Dear voters, half-soldiers, dear voters who voted in favour of the political party, Vitali Klitka "KNOCK". I am forced from this high rostrum to ask you more than ever to be alone and mobilize in the struggle for my rights. So my voters in the 144th constituency this week received so - called letters of happiness from the city’s head Alexander Mamay. These letters reported that the city’s municipal tariffs had tripled. I say it's an insurmountable burden for a pensioner today, for a simple worker, for another simple person. I'm like a national MP who's been elected in this constituency and who's guaranteed his constituents that will defend their social rights, their communal rights and will be fighting against the communal genocide in Poltava, especially by having to invite you to one of the actions, the other acts of protest that we're going to take under the walls of the city's municipal office. So I want to inform you that through our protest campaigns, through our loud campaign to stop the hot water supply for Poltava, we have won the expected victory: 90 percent of Poltava's apartments today have hot water. These are, first of all, your victories, dear Poltans. Winning because you are one family. And as a regular member of this family, I am grateful that fate has given me the opportunity to be in a large Polish family capable of fighting for their rights. I find it unacceptable that Alexander Fedorovich Mamay, who, by the way, cheated on his constituents because he was taking this position from the unknown to all the Ukrainians, especially the Polite, the political force "The Conscience of Ukraine," and went completely unconsciously and unforeseeablely to all the Poltanists into the Party of Regions. In fact, there's a whole lot of it that he took to the city council. And so they're deciding to increase the incredible social burden on the families of Poltava. In those few days, I received hundreds of calls. People call in the middle of the night and talk about what needs to be stopped. My assistants, members of the Poltava City Council, who left this crime scene, made him notice yesterday that he told my assistant Lebedik, Igor Lebedik, "I'm going to multiply you by zero." This is the kind of banditry in Poltava today. And I swear, literally from today we're starting a huge mobilization campaign. If we have to settle in a city head's office, we'll make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u111	We will force the crime scene to return hot water to the midgets, lower the fares to the pass, and also return the tariffs to the utilities that were still available. Thank you all. And God gives us the strength to fight that criminal regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u112	Have a seat, please. National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko, Freedom faction, conveys his word to Irina Sech, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, the situation of paying the State Treasury Office for local budgets without exaggeration to date is critical. If, in the first half of the year, the treasury has blocked off other expenditures, even the socially protected costs of local budgets, wages, energy, medicines, and foodstuffs are now blocked. If, in the case of the General Fund’s expenditure, the delay can be justified in the implementation of the income portion of the budget, the situation with regard to the expenditure of a special local budget fund, which is paid at the expense of specific sources of income, does not withstand any criticism. Since the beginning of the year, a special fund of local budgets in Lvivščina has accumulated 64 million sums of collection for the first registration of a vehicle to be used for maintenance of the road network. Treasury, for unknown reasons, is blocking the recalculation of these costs for repairing roads in the Lviv region. The same is true of the special fund of district and local budgets. Since the arrival of the environmental tax, the use of 20 million dollars to carry out the emergency conservation measures available today has also been blocked by the treasury authorities. From year to year, government has continued to ignore its obligations to finance health - care measures, such as waste therapy, haemodialysis, treatment of hepatitis C, and so forth. In order to preserve the lives of people, the Lviv District Council’s funds for these purposes have to be set aside from the district budget without funding other important articles. If last year it was 28 million dollars, in 2013, the state budget underfunded Lvivska 32 million dollars for cost therapy. It requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to stop demanding the State Treasury Service to carry out criminal orders for the removal of local budgets made by local communities to meet their demands, which central authorities are unable to implement because of the failure of their economic and financial policies. I demand to immediately unlock all local budget expenditure payments and to ensure timely funding of both socio-protected and road repair costs, conservation measures and other important local programmes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The National Deputy of Baiduk, a faction of the Company of Ukraine, gives his word to Spirini Irina. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u114	The Honourable Deputies! Noble TVs! I want to draw your attention to the situation in the Dnipropetrov Pipe Plant. The Dnipropetrov Pipe Plant is one of the leading black metal pipe manufacturers in Ukraine, a monopoly in the SND on the production of biomite pipes. Yet such a unique enterprise is being destroyed today. Yes, members of the committee received a number of answers from the employees' board – 1 thousand 454 employees, 47 percent of the total. However, orders have already been issued for the reduction of the state and the number of staff. Such actions are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Employment Act of Ukraine, the General Sectoral Regional Agreement, other legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine, and the memorandum of understanding signed in June 2013 between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian Mining and Metallurgical Complex, which was signed by the head of the directors of Taruta. According to this memorandum, business representatives have made a commitment not to release and retain all social benefits. Yet, the owners wanted a memorandum and a contract, so they went for it. The memorandum came out unilaterally. The owners of the mining and metallurgical complex received relief from the government in response to the crisis, and they failed to meet their obligations to the state. And to this day, we've been giving warnings to the Cabinet of Ministers, and it's been my request. But when I asked, I got an answer that wasn't very specific. Today, the Veteran company, which will be 125 years old next year, is stopped and the workers are disbanded. Everyone's waiting for their release. This will eventually lead to the complete liquidation of the enterprise. So I ask you very much to draw our government's attention to this situation that took place today at the factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u115	Have a seat, please. People's Deputy Kyle, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Deputies! Our constituencies, our audiences! You know, what's remarkable is that from the largest faction -- the faction of power -- out of 200 men there are zeros. So the faction that's supposed to sit here and hear about the electoral pains, should listen to what's going on not only in Donetsk or Makiyivka, but it's happening all over Ukraine: in Suma, Kharkiv, Odessa, Kirovograd, in Zakarpatta. They don't care. But they're going to be on TV somewhere. And the situation in the East, in the West of Ukraine, in the South, is probably the same. And unfortunately, it's probably on the side of the Party of Regions when they didn't vote to consider, in fact, inadequate responses from representatives of central authorities, local authorities to parliamentary requests, to parliamentary appeals. Ternopilska did not go far. When the same prosecutor, for example, considers himself to be unpunished, unpunished, and discounted in the narrow circles of his friendship with the son of the Attorney General, a district attorney who boasts in a narrow circle. Although you don't have to go far either. In my delegation's statement on, say, the notes from the Cabinet of Ministers on the presentation to Parliament of a government action programme that he was supposed to present within a month after his approval, I went to the Attorney General's Office. The Attorney General sends me back to the Cabinet of Ministers, and one of the ministers writes some unsavory things to me. Again, we are now looking for a first order of business. But, again, they feel unpunished. The impunity, and I say, and in the local self-government, where they have most of them, and in the executive branch, the same thing where they have absolute power when the land in Ternopolska is ploughed. For eight months now, I have been unable to get an answer from the head of the Chestpanowski regime, which is covered by the head of the government, an inadequate Hoptian, when the ground inside disembarks. The route where the woods are being cut down now, under the cover of what appears to be the construction of a new route, and the D.A. can't see. When the police make the same call. I've introduced about 30 illegal gaming businesses, and the city police don't see it, and the city police chief is just as boasting about his connections at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And actually, if there were representatives of this sort of largest faction sitting here, they'd probably listen to that, and maybe they'd come to some conclusions. I don't think so. Because they don't care about fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u117	Have a seat, please. Olga Borita, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, hands over its right to speak to the National Deputy Samoylenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u118	Honorable MPs, distinguished nuns! Today there is unrest among the inhabitants of Žitomirščina. Every day, new surprises come from power. One of them is the entourage of the state to remove the third Chernobyl area from the affected areas. You know, recently, parliamentary hearings have been held in the walls of the Supreme Council on Chernobyl, and appropriate measures have been taken to protect the affected. And instead of implementing them, the expert group of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine, funded by the State Budget, issued an expert opinion to the Council on the implementation of the Presidential Decree on measures related to the 21st anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, recommending a change in the status of the population in the area of Žitomir in relation to radiation pollution zones, said the level of post-accident population dosage decreased significantly. However, residents know other information and figures on their own rather than on Bastionni Street, where the National Commission is registered with unrespected people. Every year, people's health, especially children's, has increased by tens of times the number of pathologies in comparison to the pre-accident period, and at an incredible rate the number of deaths from cancers, the tumors of the cardiovascular system, that's the reality. Officials explain their good intentions by helping the zone to engage investors and promote infrastructure development. This position of authority and surprises me: Why is it done in secret, without discussion, for the sake of the population? The recommendations state that radiation was dispersed in a natural way, based on the decision of the expert commission. What commission, where and when did she work? This is not known in either rural or district councils. What's the secret? Now the MPs of all levels are holding their sessions, at which decisions are made to end this nonsense. Nor can it be that the findings of our experts differ with the findings of experts with a world name. American scientists claim that the ecological period of Cesius137 in the natural environment ranges from 180 to 320 years, not 30 years, foreshadowed by our experts. Everyone knows that the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which were affected by the atomic bombardment in 1945, have not yet turned to this, but are expanding their population protection program, but we have everything the other way around. I think the collapse of the disaster-protection program is bordering on a targeted genocide. After all, the State Rehabilitation Programme ended in 2010, and the new programme was not developed. Thus, the nation is indifferent to the fate of more than three million Ukrainians who were affected by the CHAES accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u119	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u120	Time has come for the State Program to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the next 10 years. Its purpose is to be based on socio-economic and radiation-environmental rehabilitation of polluted areas, creating the right conditions for reducing the risk of human disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The speech is given to Alexander Sich, the "Freedom" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u122	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In this brief presentation, I want to ask you a question about the state of the roads. Everyone knows the anecdotic thesis by Prime Minister Azarov that 80 percent of the roads have been repaired. It was said at the end of the winter. A new winter is coming, and the roads are still in terrible shape. For example, I'm going to give me the native of Ivano-Franco County, that is, the city of Ivano-Franco, and the whole of Carnation. In particular, there are victorious reports from local executive officers on Prikarpat that as many as 80 million dollars have been allocated to the roads this year. But they forget to compare that in previous years, 160, 180, 220, 260 million were allocated to support roads in a more or less normal state. Clearly, then, it is impossible to repair roads at such cost. At the same time, I point out that the government, in the form of the so - called transportation congregation, is pumping hundreds of millions of dollars out of the area and returning the pit. In particular, the budget commission of the Ivano-Frankow City Council estimated that only from the city of Ivano-Frankivsk such a transport congregation is going to the central treasury of about 300 million. Now, notice, all the public roads in the city of Ivano-Frankowska this year have not been allocated a total of 13 million. But when I'm with a fellow member of the Martínki delegation, we're calling on the road service to make a district road in the city of Ivano-Frankivsky, where transit transport usually travels. And there's no cost of repairs, it's taken into account by road service, so we get a formal answer. There are 80 million people in the area and all the roads and roads have to be repaired for this money. Clearly, if this one district road alone requires 8 million, the 13 million that have the city of Ivano-Frankivsky is not enough. I also note that if 93 roads of national and municipal importance are today, according to the traffic manager, only 14 are repaired from the planned roads in Ukraine! Note, from 93 to 14! In the city, in the Ivano-Frankow region, there's only one city, and it's at the expense of the district budget! At the same time, the analysis shows that the cost of roads in Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk is 7 times as high as the cost per mile [1 km]! I point out that this is a real expression of fascism and a real expression of genocide based on political and regional significance. It is not in vain that today only in recent times in the region of Ivano-Frankiv in Kosovo, in the region of Nadvornjan, in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, there have been roadblock protests. We have information that the Prime Minister is scheduled to be on Prikarpata next week. Let's call it, first of all, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u123	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u124	We call, first of all, not to take in a portfolio of empty declarations and references. Second, traveling around the area, not by helicopter, but by car. So that they can express their words to him in appreciation, especially to the drivers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u125	Have a seat, please. The National Deputy of Zubcevski, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is transferring his right to speak to the national deputy, Ruslan Skarbowiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u126	Dear Igor Grigoryevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people of Ukraine! The United Kingdom and its satellites publicly declared their readiness to launch aggression against the sovereign Syrian people on an unproven charge of the use of chemical weapons by Syrian Government forces against civilians. In his time, U.S. President George Bush had deliberately carried out a military invasion of Iraq. As a result, hundreds of thousands of civilians in that country have died. Today, Obama, reaffirming the aggressive nature of U.S. foreign policy, threatens to invade Syria, which will inevitably lead to the looting of the country and its transformation into another colony. Such actions by the United States and their threat to the sovereign State of Syria confirm the highly reactive policy of imperialism, international financial capital, which, under the sweet turnover of exports of democracy, has not once in recent history begun a real war against States and peoples. It is sufficient to recall the aggression against Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. They have now chosen another victim, the Syrian Arab Republic and the legitimate Government of that country. The most cynical is the fact that, officially declaring an active fight against international terrorism and the Al-Qaida terrorist organization, namely, Al-Qaida, which is armed with teeth by the Americans and the NATO countries, is currently waging an undeclared war against the people of Syria. The KPU faction strongly states that the attempt of aggression against Syria is a challenge to the entire world public. This could lead to the final destruction of post-war peace and the violation of international law in relations between States. We call on all the world's peace-loving forces to prevent a new war from unfolding in the name of the mercantile interests of large transnational capital, which will inevitably result in another senseless death of tens of thousands of people, will contribute to further instability in the world, and will be another precedent in the aggressive policies of the United States and NATO. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its solidarity with the people of the Syrian Arab Republic and its legitimate Government and supports their fair struggle for independence and sovereignty. We protect the people of Syria from aggression. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat. People’s MP Kirilenko hands over his right to speak to the national deputy Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected radio audiences, respected TV viewers! Recently, the World Bank published information that Ukraine is the world’s top tax collector. Similarly, the government recently published information that more than 300,000 officials in Ukraine. Before me was a colleague from another faction who had already reported that the treasury was massively blocking payments, most importantly, but I was recently in the Bahamas of Chernigiv district people were complaining, unable to pay 13,000 dollars for the equipment of a warm toilet in a rural school. Two days ago he was in the Vertiyevka district of Chernigiv district, where people cannot pay 30,000 dollars for repairing the roof of the kindergarten. And the nursery, where 80 children are flowing, and the children are forced to be in such conditions. So these figures, on the one hand, are the number of officials, hundreds of thousands, the largest in the world and the largest number of taxes, the largest number of prosecutors, the judges, the so-called police, which protects the power of the people, not the people of criminals, from those who violate their rights. This is all evidence that the country needs radical change. And the first is the change of power, the change of government, the change of president, and the removal from the power of the Party of Regions that took power today. And when President Janukovic opens the session and tells us that the standard of living of citizens is rising, yes, it goes up to those citizens who serve today's authorities, to those citizens who serve the Party of Regions, to those citizens who have been caught up in the budget, who don't pay taxes, the oligarchs, and in those citizens who are growing up, they become billionaires, and in those citizens who live in the villages, in cities who have not studied their children and can't work anywhere, to those citizens who are collecting potatoes like in my hometown of Montenegro, and I can't sell it anywhere at the normal price. In these citizens, the situation has deteriorated considerably and significantly in recent years. The way out is radical political, economic and social change, a reduction in the number of the Supreme Council, a limitation of the powers of the members of the Supreme Council, a removal of the parliamentary integrity, a reduction in the number of the official corps, which we have 300,000, a reduction, a radical rotation of the militia, the prosecutor's office, the courts. So this is what the country needs. And when the investment climate improvement bill was considered yesterday, this investment climate improves when there is no corruption in Ukraine. When there is an independent justice in Ukraine. If private property is respected in Ukraine, there will be real improvements in Ukraine. Get off the Party of Regions that destroys the country! Get rid of the power of today!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u129	People's MP Mohnik, Freedom faction, gives the floor to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u130	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev, 215 constituency. Dear Society, today we have many elections in the Supreme Council to various villages, villages, towns. That's very good. But we have the capital of Ukraine, and the largest city in Ukraine is the city of Kiev, where, unfortunately, the community does not receive such a right. It's a legitimate and simple right to choose power. Choosing a local council, choosing a city’s head, in any way affecting the city’s life. And we're not going to talk abstractly. In particular, authorities, specifically the Party of Regions does not vote, block the question of the election in Kiev. And now we see that this directly affects the life and life of the city. In fact, there is no one to protect today, when the Kiev budget robs about 8 billion dollars a year, when 50 percent of the income tax is eliminated. When Kiev today turned into the most foresty batch of bread for the raiders, various bandits who actually take over the Kyiv lands that destroy Kiev’s historic faces, which destroy parks, squares, green zones, create an unbearable life for China. In fact, literally today it became known that another historical building was demolished, a historical monument on the street of the Saxegan building, in which, by the way, Mikhailo Gruszewski lived, was demolished, and a shopping and entertainment center would be built in his place. We recently saw a situation that was in Troasty, in my constituency, on the street of Majakowski, 4, where they wanted to build an incomprehensible shopping and entertainment center. They started right under the house where people live, in the green zone, cutting down trees, putting up a fence, and being chased by bandits. And after the local community, with the support of the Freemasons, completely destroyed this illegal building, threw out two hundred bandits, destroyed the fence, and then the authorities responded, and the prosecution said that there was something illegal, and the local administration said it was such a-anything wrong. Although before that, they said it was okay. So this only shows us the way to fight today’s regime, the way to fight today’s power. Because they don't understand the language of tolerance. They only understand when people go out and defend their rights. And of course we will. It's very good that, thanks to our pressure, the pressure of opposition, including Freedoms, was able to appoint elections in troubled districts, especially in the Shevchenk district in 223 district, where, I'm sure, we'll soon be joined by our colleague Yuri Lewchenko, who, I'm sure, will win the election there. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u131	Thank you, sit down. The last speaker, the national MP Topalov, is referring the right to speak to Olga Borit.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u132	Dear Chairman. Honorable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to the situation that has arisen with the Crossroads today. The reason, I think, was that, in February of 1012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill that allowed for the participation of the Crucifixions and the causes of the disaster appeared quite quickly. Direct trains are usually canceled. Now people get to the usual points with a few transplants, which is an automatic price hike. The worn-out wagons in the government have generously promised to replace the daily high-speed trains "Hyundai" and "Skoda". The Kermans don't like the simple night shifts of Ukrainians because they want to move fast, in Europe. But have the reformers taken into account the interests of the vast majority of passengers who use the services of the Cruise Station? In addition, the Korean mobile warehouse Hyundai, which bought our "savvy" in paws, the government, instead of supporting a domestic cheap producer, many Ukrainians are not in their pocket. The cost of driving them along the route, like Kiev-Livov, is about 500 bucks. From Donetsk to Lviv, a thousand dollars will be available. The East and the West are thus going on and on. There was "improvement" in the paws and the hops. Having cancelled a number of trains, especially disturbs people by cancelling train number 624 Kamyanec-Podilski-Kyiv, who left Hmelnicki at twenty-second???????? and arrived in the capital at 7:30 a.m. This train was usually used by students. I want to ask the reformers. How did the children get to Hmelnicki to get on the train that now leaves the district center at night one, two, or three? I don't think that's very disturbing, because the unalternative decision to cancel the night-waves was made in the offices of people who were moving on cars with flashes. The same is true of bus flights. I am repeatedly approached by villagers who complain of the irregular use of bus routes. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Kozak to stop shortening trains and to bring about a system with bus routes and trains. Consider my statement an official request to the Minister of Infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-06-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, September 17th, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
