ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, invited members of the government, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:51]] There were 340 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the members of our government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, are present: Bogy Gennadowicz Arbusov – First Vice-Prime Minister for Culture, Vice-Prime Minister Boyko Yuri Anatolievich, Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister of Ukraine Kostunica Ivanovich Grishenko is present, Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Olen Leonidivna Lukash, Minister of Agriculture Policy Nikola Volodimir Prophemyrovic is missing, First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Viktor Borisovich; Minister of Revenue and Assembly Alexander Viktorovich Klimenko is here; Minister of Ecology Oleg Albertovich Procurator of Power Management and Economic Development Minister of the Ministry of the Interior According to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held from 10 to 11 a.m. During the hour of questions, it is suggested that you listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state education policy and answer the question by the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco. And it's suggested that the next order of questioning hours to the government: give the Minister of Education and Science up to 20 minutes for the report and the answer to the written and oral questions, take the members of the Cabinet of Ministers 10 minutes to answer the questions from the MP factions and to ask the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to take up to 30 minutes. And it is suggested that one minute at a time each oral question and two minutes at a time to answer it. So let's move on to the questions to the government, and I invite you to the podium of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u2	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs and distinguished representatives, since most of the questions addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers contain questions about the completion of the academic year and the preparations for the introductory campaign for Ukraine's higher education institutions in 2013, let me brief you on the completion of the academic year. Today, in 19 thousand, 672 secondary schools in Ukraine, the last bell rings for four million 222,000 schoolchildren, including more than 280,000 of them, are graduates of the 11th-grade classes of public education schools. Today this bell will sound for them in their lives for the last time. I would like to welcome everyone whose children, grandchildren, loved ones are finishing school today. [[Applause]] Traditionally in these days, we take stock of our work during the school year and ensure its organized completion. So I want to inform you about the main events this year. As for preschool education. The network of kindergartens in Ukraine is rapidly developing. It was only in the first quarter that 10 private educational institutions had already been opened, 10 institutions had been restored, 10 educational complexes had been set up and 100 extra groups had been opened for preschool children in functioning kindergartens. Thus, it was only in the first quarter of this year that the government made an additional 4,000 places in kindergartens. In general, there are 16 thousand 414 preschools in the country today, where 1 million 430,000 children are enrolled in preschool education. Over 375,000 have graduated from preschool schools this year. The new social initiatives of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine have clearly defined the possibility of providing more than 100,000 more places in kindergartens for two years. Only this number will make it possible to practically minimize the queues in kindergartens. The other one. General secondary education. Today, the hottest season begins in this area: state-level summary testing, teaching practices, study tours, the handing of educational documents to graduates in the 9th and 11th classes. A few words about the end - of - the - year curriculum in schools. As I mentioned at the outset, the last bell is held in all the facilities today. In the middle of the three days, on Monday, May 27, there will be the first of three trials for the 11th graders: a written tradition from the Ukrainian language. The festivities of full secondary education will be held from June 1 to June 2 with the choice of a school. From June 3 to 27, there will be an external independent evaluation, for which 322 and a half thousand people have registered in the established order, including about 25 percent of whom are graduates of the past years who want to improve their test results. From July 1st, an introductory campaign is launched at higher education institutions. For primary - school graduates, the national summary will be held from May 28 to June 11 out of five subjects: Ukrainian language, dictator, mathematics, biology, geography, and foreign language. And a certificate of basic secondary education will be given to 9th grade graduates from 11-12 June. That's almost 410,000 children. For about 400,000 of our smallest 4th grade school graduates who have already passed the state summary appraisal, from May 27th to May 30th, there will be school tours. In addition, there will be healings for those who wish in the summer school camps planned by the Ministry of Education this year to create more than 16.5,000. This year’s elementary school is special because since September 1st last year, high school students have switched to a new national standard of primary general education. Its main advantages and differences were: studying foreign language in all the 1st grade schools, health-saving environmental orientation, introducing all the subjects in time to learn information, not from the 9th grade, but from the 2nd grade. Since September 1st this year, students in 2nd and 5th classes are going to learn new standards. Today, they complete the printing of textbooks that will be delivered to all schools at the right time. I want to report to the Supreme Council that on May 20th, the complete printing of all textbooks for the 2nd grade was completed, and they were all brought to the district book bases. A few words about the school bus program. For the beginning of this school year, 292,000 students lived outside the walking distance. Over the past two years, the number of children who have received school buses has increased 1.6 times. I'd like to say that for the next year, I'd like to ask you to support the people's deputies, the school bus program, for the final conclusion of this program next year. It's very short on social protection for pedagogical workers. The government is pursuing a targeted, consistent policy to increase the wages of teachers. Because there is no doubt about the need to raise the social protection of the teacher and improve the prestige of the teaching profession in society. I'd like to report. From July 1, 2012 to January 1, 2013, an increase in the wages of all teaching staff in Ukraine took place four times. From July 1, October 1, 2012 and January 1, 2013. This increase allowed the average wage to increase by more than 20 percent over one school year. For comparison. In December, last year, the average salary paid by a higher-class teacher was 2 000,246 dollars in Ukraine, today 3,000,190 dollars. A 3-year-old teacher with no categories and no titles was 1,642 bracelets, today 2,000, 450 bracelets. We understand that this is not enough. But the government is still planning to work on raising the wages of education workers. Thank you for your attention. And let me go to the answers to the questions. First question. Specific features of conducting an external independent evaluation of graduates of institutions who showed a desire to enter higher education institutions in 2013. I want to say that all the planned arrangements for the preparation and conduct of the external independent evaluation in 2013 have been made. Finished printing of tests in the languages of national minorities. But we're delivering test materials to the testing sites. Training and training are also provided for teachers who are involved in external independent evaluation, at all test sites, and at open-ended tasks. A network of test points is also fully formed. They were created by 4,000 730s on the basis of more than a thousand educational institutions. This year's schedule for external independent evaluation is, in our opinion, more successful. The test will begin on June 3 from chemistry and will be completed on June 27 with the subject of testing — world literature. An external independent assessment of three subjects (foreign languages – June 8th, geography – June 15th and physics – June 22nd) will be held on Saturday. In connection with a large number of registered students for test subjects: Ukrainian language and literature, mathematics and the history of Ukraine - testing will take place in two sessions. During the external evaluation, the aboriginals will be made up of 14 subjects. This is Ukrainian language and literature (a compulsory subject for admission to higher education), mathematics, Ukrainian history, Russian language, physics, chemistry, geography, biology, English, German, French, Spanish, and a new subject, compared to 2012, is world literature. Aboriginals who, for important reasons defined by the Order of External Independent Evaluation in 2013, will not be able to take part in the test in the main external independent evaluation session will be able to submit to the relevant regional centre a request for any test during an additional external independent evaluation session, adding a document to this application to confirm that there are valid reasons. And an additional session for such children will be held from an external independent evaluation from 4 to 11 July 2013. A little bit about innovation. This year, control will be increased at all testing sites to avoid external independent evaluation. It is estimated that the number of metal detectors at the test sites will increase significantly compared to the previous year, from 30 percent to 72 percent. I'd like to remind you that over time taken to run a test, the AQ should not have any means of communication, processing devices and reading information, whether they're on or off. Some changes have also taken place in the meaningful part of conducting an external independent evaluation. At the request of practice teachers, the number of tasks in humanities tests has been reduced, this is "World History", "The History of Ukraine" from 60 to 55 questions. Despite the reduction in the number of physics jobs from 36 to 34, the time for this test remained the same - 180 minutes. In particular, the number of jobs with a single correct answer has also been reduced, and the number of jobs with a short, meaningful answer has been increased. This will reduce the number of jobs where replies can be guessed by unsetting this part of the test from tasks that need to be calculated in bulk. The value of the part of the test in which aboriginals solve tasks and write a numerical answer on their own has been increased. In order to increase the accuracy of the measurement criteria for self-assessment from foreign languages, changes have been made both in their structure and in the system of evaluation of tests from foreign languages. So the number of communication situations has been reduced, the system has been reviewed to evaluate its own expression by the criteria of lexic and grammar. New intervals have been set for the number of errors and errors displayed when assessing the language of self - expression from a foreign language. We are convinced that such changes in criteria and improvements in the quality of test tasks will improve the quality of test tests. The main aspects that should be taken into consideration by the graduates during the preparation for the SEA remain the same as in the past year: the absence of telephones, devices and a clear presence of documents (this is the original of the test document, the certificate of external independent evaluation and the invitation card). By July 5, 2013, the results of the main test session will be announced, and by July 16, the results of all the graduates who will participate in the additional session will be announced. Second question. How is the school bus government program going on at this time? I've started talking about this. I would like to say that the problem of the immediate provision of geographical and economic accessibility of education services in Ukraine is being addressed in a comprehensive and effective manner. In addition to the comprehensive introduction of information technology that allows to partially address these issues in relation to remote learning and the free distribution of quality primary information resources. The state and government are also concerned about the provision of funds and conditions for the necessary transfer of children and teachers to local educational institutions. This is how the State Target Social Program School Bus was implemented, created in 2003. I've already said that 292 thousand 673 students need transportation beyond walking accessibility. Today’s bus service is 98.5 percent, including a school bus of almost 83 percent and 17 percent of other modes of transport. Compared to 2010, a 1.6 - fold increase in the number of school buses. The overall need for Ukraine’s school buses for this year is about one and a half thousand. Last year, at the expense of the state budget, a record number of school buses were purchased in all nine years of the programme’s existence — over 900. In addition, some 250 school buses were provided at the expense of local budgets. This year, according to the budget schedule, about 450 more school buses are scheduled for purchase, which will be fully placed with rural education authorities before the beginning of the new school year by September 1. In addition, 210 more buses are planned to purchase local authorities at the expense of the state budget. Satisfying the final need to take into account the results of this year will consist of about a thousand school buses for the period 2014. The next question is, "The State of Development of the Network of Preschool Institutions." I've been talking about this for a while. Over the past 2.5 years, the number of kindergartens in Ukraine has increased to 1,346 preschools. What made it possible to create 204,000 places for preschool children. In particular, we were able to raise preschool education from 63 percent to 85.5 percent by providing preschool coverage to almost 100% of children of five years of age. This year, it is planned to increase the number of children’s gardens by another 52 thousand. I think if these efforts were to grow over the next two years, such a sad notion as the turn to preschool, it would be eliminated. Next question. What is the situation with the formation of government procurement for the training of professionals and workers? I would like to report that at the meeting on May 22, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a decree on the extent of the government’s procurement for the preparation of professionals and workers. This year's government procurement is built in this way: increased volume of government procurement for the following directions: information technology, computing technology, systems sciences, cybernetics, telecommunications, biotechnology, security of information systems, security of communication systems, genetic engineering, management automation, microelectronics, nanoelectronics, and reduced public procurement for direct international relations – by 23 per cent, economy and business – by 12 per cent, management and administration – by 11 per cent. For higher education this year, a government order of less than 4,000 persons is planned to reduce the graduates of this year’s 11th class by 6.7 percent. I mean, almost 20,000. The government order was reduced by only 4,000. I would like to say that this year's government order has also been reduced to economic and legal professions. And this year's total public procurement for bachelor's programs is going to total over 85,000. As far as the volume of government procurement is concerned. As with the preparation of higher education institutions, this year, in accordance with the adopted law of the Supreme Council, the first government order will be placed, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, on competitive grounds. The government issued this decree yesterday. And the competitive selection of government contractors will be made transparently. With special commissions created by each government contracting authority with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science, the joint representative body of employers, the All - Ukrainian Professional Associations and their associations, the student self - government bodies. The basic criteria for selecting government contractors are simple and clear. There's a license for educational services, there's an appropriate material security. I'd like to say that in the workforce this year, we're planning to increase the government's, the government's order. Thank you for the written questions. And ready to go to oral questions
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Deputies! There are 10 minutes of oral requests to Dmitri Volodymyrovich. Please sign up. One minute, you know, on request, two minutes, on answer. Please, Martinks, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u4	Please pass on the word Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u5	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u6	Irina Farion, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions for you. So, on what basis do you intend to introduce from the 5th class of Russian language study? And it's the cost of hours of foreign language, isn't it a continuation of notorious Soviet regulations, especially in 1938, "The duty to study Russian" in all so-called Soviet republics? And the second question. On what basis does your ministry carry out continuous and unprecedented tests, as well as a change of personnel at the Institute of Ukrainian Sciences? Is this not a clear prejudice to the Ukrainian content of education? Please answer these questions. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u7	First of all, I regret that you have been misinformed. There's no way that anyone is conducting a forced study of a second foreign language from the fifth grade. According to the new state-of-the-art standard, which is positively appreciated by the Council of Europe, they even gave this a high epithet, as the beginning of the linguistic revolution, it is mandatory to learn English from the 1st class. According to the State Standard for Second Foreign Language Studies, it is mandatory in all fifth grade schools. But the choice of a foreign language that is necessarily learned from the 5th grade belongs to the prerogative of an educational pedagogical group. Moreover, the second foreign language is chosen by the pedagogical council, along with the group of parental self-government, into which languages can be selected from the 5th class without exception all European languages, provided that they are appropriate. Since Russian is both the language of the United Nations and the European language, no one can hold back those schools that want to choose Russian for the second compulsory language as a foreign language and study from the 5th class. There is no policy or imposition of Spanish or Russian, French, or German on this issue. You've been misinformed. With regard to continuous changes in human resources at the Institute of Ukrainian Science. In the last 22 years, this institution has unfortunately not undergone any change in personnel. Professor Cononenko, 83 years old, is the head of this institution. Sad to say, his own son is the deputy director of the scientific work, and most of the workmates in the institute are in a family relationship with him in one way or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u8	I beg you, the faction of the Party of Regions, the National Deputy of Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you a question about the situation around foreign students. What policy is being pursued by the Ministry of Education and Science in this regard? I ask for an answer because of the economic, political, humanitarian and security component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. During the last 50 years, Ukraine had a very powerful training tradition for foreign students, and during the Soviet Union it was one of the three largest centres in which foreign experts were trained. Today, the Ministry of Education and Science has given special attention to the involvement of foreign students in our country. I'm not going to explain a lot of advantages from the point of view of economic security. Just a few measurements: The contract fee of foreign students allows for a substantial replenishment of the treasury and universities and the budget. Over the past few years, I think there's been a very positive dynamic: an increase in the number of foreign students per year by 7-8 thousand. Today, in Ukraine, there are only 61,000 foreign students on contract from 152 countries in the world, and in 2010, there were 41,000 of them, that is, progress. This allows, firstly, to seriously strengthen the material base, secondly, to introduce through the graduates a certain political, economic, humanitarian influence of Ukraine on other states. In order to increase the number of foreign students, we have provided as many autonomy opportunities as possible for all universities: the choice of language of education, the combination of bachelor and master's programmes, the reduction of the number of mediators, the reduction of the filing deadlines for foreign students. One problem remains the lack of comfortable accommodations for foreign students. Today, Kharkiv owns the first position for the number of foreign students, but the number of foreign students who want to study in our country continues to increase, and it is a pleasure that more than four thousand are contractors from European countries in this school year.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u11	I'm requesting the Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Mathios.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u13	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Mr. Minister, Reagan's words about the U.S. government are beautiful: "Government, as a baby, is a terrible appetite and full of irresponsibility." This is what he said about his own government, what to say about our Ukrainian government, where you're very noticeable, so I would say, Minister, you're known by everyone and just a lot of people today in Ukraine, a huge segment and educators, and no educators are waiting for you to hear the last call. The question is very simple: the student girl Kyevo-Magilian once gave you the original flower, she's not a student now, and she's unemployed, you couldn't take her to work, and she would. A secretary and she would give you flowers every morning?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u15	The distinguished national MP, Reagan, who was a prominent political figure, had many interesting comments, including on a public official visit, and in 1983 he gave an extremely positive assessment to the then president of Guatemala. He said that he was a man of high honor and conscience who constantly cared for social justice. For your information, this very president, Guatemala, was sentenced to 80 years in prison on May 12, for killing 200,000 of his fellow countrymen. So Reagan had both interesting and completely wrong statements. I think it needs to be appreciated in the context of global history. As for students and non-students who want to get a job. I think you could look for a vacancy on your committee, and in the Ministry of Education and Science, a set of employees is being carried out under the State Service Act solely on competitive grounds. Competitive principles provide for education and appropriate qualifications. Regarding the National University of Kiev-Magilian Academy. It was the candidate you're proposing to work that was counted from the Kiev-Magilian Academy after the student self-governance body of this university did not support his behavior and expression, for which I can thank the Kyiv-Magilian Academy student self-governance body.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u16	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u17	Mr. Smoker, I have a few questions for you. The first relates to institutions of extra - school education, so - called art schools. My parents and teachers at the Labedin Children’s School of Art, Boris Romanovich Gmiri, have addressed me, and so have many other art schools. And it's about their request for an order, or a recommendation, from the Ministry of Finance regarding the financing of these art schools. With a view to optimizing the cost of local budgets, it is recommended that all responsibility be placed for financing art schools for parents. That's one and a half thousand dollars. This means that schools of art throughout Ukraine will be closed. And so the initiatives of the socialist Viktor Yanukovich, our President, "Children are the future of Ukraine," and the "Year of Childhood" and the children's creativity of 2013 will be ruined. That's the first question. And the second question. Your attitude is to transfer these art schools to the state budget. It's not that big of a cost, it's about 700 to 800 million dollars. Your attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u19	Thank you to the distinguished national MP for asking. I would like to say that all schools of art in Ukraine are methodically, organizationally, cared for by the Ministry of Culture. I think my colleague, honourable Culture Minister Leonid Mikhailovich Novochatko, will be ready to answer that question. As far as the Ministry of Education and Science is concerned. According to the Ministry's authority, we're looking after non-school education institutions. These are in Ukraine today, 1676. I must say, in the last three years, no preschool education facility has been closed in Ukraine. No one! True, there was an incident in the Sabmer district when the local council closed down all four available preschool facilities at the same time. extracurricular education. The Ministry of Education presented four protests against the decision of this local council to the Attorney General’s Office. After the intervention of the Attorney General's Office, I think that this uncircumcised decision has been overturned, and in this area the efforts of the Ministry of Education and the Attorney General's Office continue to exist all four institutions of extra-school education. In addition, 17 new higher education facilities have been opened this year. As far as they're concerned. Today, nearly 40 percent of school - age children attend classes, groups, and sections in extra - school institutions. As for the proposals for the inclusion of extra-school institutions, I think that art schools have been given such an assignment by the President of Ukraine in the preparation of the budget for the following year by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. I think that we will work together and implement the President's social initiatives to include 70 percent of school-age children in extra-school education for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u20	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. Have a seat. I ask the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources to answer written questions. On a written question. Minister of Ecology, please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u21	Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 provides expenditure on environmental protection measures of 980 million dollars. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine is the principal cost manager for the expenditure. In order to use the funds provided for in the State Budget for the implementation of the conservation measures approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the creation and approval of the plan of environmental protection is carried out by the Ministry of the Interior in agreement with Minfin. In addition, according to the specified order, the Ministry determines the contractors of the work under separate conservation measures and allocates expenditure between the administrative and territorial units in the section of the lower-level budget manager to their recipient. Questions. "Please indicate what document defined a plan for environmental protection measures in terms of territorial units of directors and recipients of the budget of specific measures. And please provide a copy of this document." The answer. The State budget for Ukraine for 2013 takes into account the expenditure of the State Environmental Protection Fund of 833 million dollars. According to the method of use of the funds under the above budget programme, the budget costs are directed in accordance with the plan of conservation measures approved by the Minnfin Nature. So far, according to the budget program approved by the Minnphin and approved by the Minfin, a plan for conservation of 557 million dollars, including the following directions. Ensure the rational use and storage of production and household waste, the conservation of the natural resource and animal resources, the protection and rational use of water resources, the protection of the atmosphere, the monitoring of the environment, the protection and rational use of natural plant resources and resources of the animal world, the organization and implementation of environmental education and the implementation of the economic mechanism, the protection of the environment. There are plans for conservation measures worth 677 million dollars in the Minfin agreement. This is the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u22	One minute. You know, there's no need to be hysterical around here. The ministers came to answer the written questions. You tell me, there's five questions, there's freedom in writing, there's no answer, okay? [[B in m in s a l in]] Hope. Answer the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u23	Second question. "What is the decision of which organ and in which order the founder of the "Nadra" is elected." And on the basis of which the economic calculations were given a preference, it was TOV "SPK-Heosservis" who participated in the creation of "Nadra.""? On November 30, 2011, the government decided to hold a tender for the Agreement on the Distribution of Hydrocarbons, which is extracted within the Yuszowska area and determined the conditions for the competition. One of the key conditions of the competition is the mandatory partnership of the winner of the competition with the Ukrainian participant. In accordance with paragraph 16 of the terms of the contest, such a contestant was chosen on competitive grounds or by a government-owned shareholder company, or a household company formed by its participation. The inter-ministerial commission for the organization and execution of production distribution agreements conducted a competitive selection with the participation of two NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and NAK Nadra Ukraine. The winner of the first stage of the competition was NAC Nadra Ukraine. A competitive selection of a non-state company was made to implement the terms of the competition, which would be able to become a partner of NAC "Nadra" for participation in the hydrocarbon distribution agreements in the Yusev area. According to the government’s decision to conduct this competitive selection, it was placed on the Deriveonadre. The competition was held according to the criteria of the Cabinet of Ministers. There were five candidates for the holdinggheonadr. As a result of their evaluation, according to the Cabinet of Ministers of Criteria, Dergeonandra defined the TV "SPK-Heosservis" as the winner of the competitive selection. The minutes of the competition committee's meeting indicated that SPC-Heosservis carried out geological exploration work under contracts with leading international oil and gas companies: Shell, Total, Shevron, Exxon Mobil, which has a high level of qualifications for personnel from geological solar gas research. This SPK-Geoservis is offered a share in the statutory capital of the joint venture, along with NAC Nadra Ukraine, only 10 percent when other competitors offered their share 49-50 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 14 minutes. So let me ask the MPs an opportunity to sign up and ask oral questions. I'd like the deputies to sign up. The letter will provide answers in writing. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy of Horochov, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u25	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u26	Please, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u27	I don't have as many questions as requests for Deputy Prime Minister Arbosov. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, convey to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov our gratitude for his decision regarding journalists. Mikola Janović came out of an unpleasant situation with journalists very wisely and noblely. He invited them and assured them that the Cabinet of Ministers would open the door for them. This is a testimony that the Ukrainian authorities remain transparent and open to the press that we welcome very much in our parliament. Thank you and give the Prime Minister a big "thank you" for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u28	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u29	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister of Ukraine, so I would like to ask the First Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like to hear, I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Arbusov. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Constitution, article 85 of the Constitution, the powers of the Supreme Council include the consideration and decision-making of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers. At the very least, three articles of the Cabinet of Ministers law obliges the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare, bring to the Supreme Council, and manage the program. I would like to avoid confusing with the national development programmes provided for in paragraph 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with article 227 of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to submit such a program to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u30	Please answer. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u31	Thank you. Since I have not been heard from the very beginning, I would like to conclude, so Volodymyr Vasilovich and the distinguished Vice Prime Minister's program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers for the term of his mandate is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council in the month following the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers formed in December. The question is, when will the Cabinet program be introduced to the Supreme Council? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u32	Turn it on, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. In fact, this program exists, the situation is that you know what the state of our country's economy and the world economy is now. Now there's a crisis and there's plenty of income articles going to be right on the second and third quarter. That's why the program is written, it's being updated, it's now a program to activate the economy of our Ukraine, which is on our website. We are using this program today, and in the near future it will be prepared and presented for consideration by the government and the program you speak about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u34	Thank you. Party of regions, Zarubinsky National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear members of the government, we are told that political battalions are nowhere and have never contributed to economic development. And that's why I have the nature of the question economically next. Everybody knows that in the world division of labor, it has happened that no country, even the most powerful, can at the same time at the same level develop different sectors or all sectors. The recent years of the Ukrainian economy have shown that we have a locomotive that accelerates the development of the entire universal economy. IT technology is high technology and it's agriculture. The first production of agricultural food, food, especially in the face of the global food crisis. I have a question of what does the government plan to do today and tomorrow and in the medium term to stimulate these sectors, I repeat, IT technology and agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u36	I beg of you, Mikola Volodymyrovich the Jury. Please. And then the Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I'm also in the same position that the agricultural sector is a key sector for the economy of our state. And it's not just the password, it's real and it's indicators. We see that in just two years we've doubled the export potential, we've increased the oval production from 240 billion to 260 billion, and of course we've made such an attractive environment for investments that are now active. And we see that every year, in different forms of investment, they're involved in the agrarian sector. A very important issue is the production of food. Of course, it's an in-depth processing, of course it's an extra place, of course it's a quality food, both on the internal market and on the outside. I would like to point out that just last year we started to supply food and agricultural products in five new markets, five new countries in which we did not supply, practically, in the history of the state. That's the first question. Also a very strong and important sign is that in the past year, the countries of the European Union are the first countries to import our agricultural products and foodstuffs. First of all, it's a platable consumer, second of all, it's a recognition of the quality of our production, and, of course, we hope, we have high hopes that this volume of exports will increase. We also opened and certified a series of our products last year in countries with a sufficiently rigid quota and quality control regime. I'm convinced that all of these measures, including in the Economics Promotion Programme, are designed to involve investment as a rural machine building, as an animal development, which is very important to us and, of course, are new technologies, technological restocking of the plant sector, because this is a key area for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u38	Minister of Economics, is there anything to add? Igor Mikolaiovich Prassolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, you know that these technologies are included in the crucial direction of enhancing economic development, you know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u40	Speak. I beg you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u41	You know that IT technology plays a big role in the economic revitalization programme. And you also know that the Government, together with the people's deputies, has repeatedly proposed tax-related measures to create concessional conditions for this business. Therefore, the Government will continue to make proposals, both at the legislative and legislative levels of the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the industry develops, as we are well aware that this sector is one of the fastest growing and most powerful sectors in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u42	Thank you. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Everything? Okay? Let's move on. But he'll learn, he's young, he'll learn, he'll be fine. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Fatherland faction, let's give the committee manager a word. National MP Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u43	We're talking about state policy in education, and today this state policy is about reducing access to education, reducing the quality of education, and manipulating the tariff network. Here today we were told of a fourfold increase in wages. And I have a question: why? The first question is why the general agreement with the unions is not being implemented and the gap between the first tariff rate rate at which education is calculated and the minimum wage is still about 300 dollars. The second question. Since 2009, 904 schools have been closed down according to the State Department. The Ministry and the government are constantly estranged from this decision, since it is the decision of the local authorities. In fact, they will trigger unacceptable indicators of inter-budget transfers. And my question today is this. Considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u44	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u45	Given the chronic underfunding of local self-government in part of education, how will the formula for inter-budget transfers be improved to preserve small-scale primary schools?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u46	Thank you. Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u47	I would like to say that, as you have rightly pointed out in your question, the formula for inter-budget transfers is prepared by the Ministry of Finance. So I would be very grateful to the Committee on Science and Education if you and I could hold a joint meeting or consider your proposals to improve this formula, which would make it possible for local budgets to be more comfortable, allowing them to take more fully into account the needs of educational institutions. After that, we could pass on these proposals and stand together at the Ministry of Finance. But about the deficit, I'd like to mark it. To date, there is no debt to finance a salary at the end of May in the field of education. Moreover, according to the information, there is no problem with the preparation and payment of vacations to all teaching staff for July-August this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u48	One last question. Freedom Union, Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u49	The U.S. Freedom Union, Vitov, Volinj. I have a question for the deputy minister of infrastructure. We have experienced many stages of improvement in our lives, and now we are facing further improvements. It refers to the cancellation of trains. The trains are now being cut short by the connection: "Kovel-Chernovitsi" -- not on the new schedule, "Civerci-Pizamche" -- cancels, only goes to Sapižanka Kamenkobui district. They're taking off the direct communication trains of Kiev-Sumi and only the one leaving at night is left. So virtually Volin, as a region, is now being cut off from the link between Lvivščina-Frankishte and Chernović. As a result, I am now being approached by mass public organizations, student organizations that Volin is being cut off. There is virtually no road between Lutsk and Lviv. So we're practically getting up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u50	Who's the question? We'll be in in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u51	I was saying at the beginning that the question to the deputy minister of infrastructure. Why are trains taking off? And we need to do everything we can to make sure that the region is connected by transport routes with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u52	I'd like you to meet the Minister of Infrastructure, Kornierko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. Trains don't cancel. Trains are replaced according to a new schedule. And there's a lot of trains going around. No region has lost contact. If you have a complaint specific to some area where the train has been switched, give us information, and we will consider it again. All trains left the new schedule, and no region was left without communication. As far as the roads are concerned, you know the situation, and the Autodrome is in the process of repairing the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u54	One last question. A minute ago, the head of the Fatherland faction of Yatzenyuk. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u55	Mr. Head! Let us greet Ukrainian children and Ukrainian parents with the entire parliamentary hall today’s festival of the last bell. These are our children, our most precious, most precious capital. [[Applause]] And allow me, Mr. Head, to express my sincere confidence that we will soon be celebrating the last bell to celebrate for this Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and for this President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! "The year of questions before the government" is over. Let us thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank You [[Applause]] Dear, distinguished deputies! We're working on it. We have, we have an offer. As you wish. Start to consider questions, and ask MPs to read them at the end. Is there any objection? "No! No!" Why don't we talk about it? Yes. Deputies! You know, I always listen to the thoughts of MPs. According to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, on Friday we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. That's what I'm gonna do. Questions were raised about the national deputies of Ukraine. Tetjana Sluz to the President of Ukraine on the accession of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the appointment of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Anatolia Merkovsky. Please support this request. Please vote. [[11:04:34]] For-100 Against - 1, held - 4, did not vote - 260. The decision is not taken. The factions. Got to know each other. Let's move on. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of wages in the amount of more than 1.9 million dollars to employees of the Open Shareholder Association Westlyachbud in Strey, Lviv region, the non-payment by the Association of Contributions to the Pension Fund of Ukraine of over 900,000 dollars and the investigation into the causes of death of the acting director of Vladimir Klimyuk. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of local authorities in the Odessa region to disqualify the land of the consumer cooperative Victoria. Fedor Negoya to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the Attorney General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to a parliamentary appeal regarding the return of Elizabeth Stramous to a self-occupied land in the territory of the Masandrian Village Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u57	Alexander Sić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend some of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to strengthen social guarantees for trainers at sports schools and teachers at non-school institutions. The Gennady of Fedorjak to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support Irina's minor child, which has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Social Protection Fund for Disabled Persons, the State Service for Disabled Persons and Veterans of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive contribution to the treatment of a severely disabled child named Victor Onechuk in order to guarantee him an inalienable natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical care from the authorized authorities of the State. National Deputy Spirey Irina Dmitrovna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the opening in the Dnipropetrovsky area of the municipal enterprise, which will provide payment services for the provision of food and laundry for medical facilities in the area. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the completion of repairs on the road and his approaches through the railway on the road to Butac - Churtkov - Skala-Podilska, Ternopil region. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the new premises of the Šuparska Public Education School, the 1st degree of Borstev district of Ternopil. Sergey Kiwalov and Vladimir Kurenny to the head of the Odessa District State Administration regarding the non-admission of the Odessa City Children's Clinic of Diagnostics, Boris Resnik. Oleg Tsarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the inaction and corruption of the police and prosecutors of the Tomakov district of Dnipropetrov district on the dismantling of iron concrete plates from rural roads. Olga To Fight with the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the expansion of the List of States and periods of hostilities in their territory, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of February 8, 1994 No.63 "On Organization Measures for the Application of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection". Groups of National Deputies (Kivalova, Zivania and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to continue the experiment with the funding of the National Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine in case of unemployment in the financing of public works for the unemployed in the area of construction and reconstruction in Odessa. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Cherka district government administration on biased attitudes and persecution for political reasons of the deputy district council of Taisia Rusnak. Mikoli Fedoruk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine by the City Council and its officials. Artura Martovicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to address the issues of improving agricultural legislation. Valery Calchenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of a possible environmental disaster in the Birzulovian lineage of the Ilmenite ore in the region of Kirovograd. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of budgetary resources for the capital repair of the primary classes of Denishev School I-III was in the village of Denish of the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline in the village of Velika Bratalov, Lubarsky district, Žitomir district. Vladimir Pekhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in connection with the implementation by enterprises of the social organizations of the disabled in the region of Žitomir and Ukraine as a whole, the right to benefits from tax and collection (compulsory payments) in accordance with Ukraine’s laws. Roman Vanzurjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the failure to take appropriate measures to respond and not respond to the parliamentary appeal to prevent illegal eviction of residents of the group No. 1 of the Czerniewec Region's Deep Professional List. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of a national target programme for hemophiliacs of type "A" and "B" and Willebrand's disease by drugs for blood coagulation during their preventive treatment in outpatient conditions. Anatolia Goncharova to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the Development Programme of the Donbas Central Region. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the conduct of illegal geological drilling in the Žitomir region. Eduard Leonov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the raiding of the building of architecture in Kiev, addressed to the street. Christian, 48, illegal dismantling of places of general use and the threat to the lives of citizens. Constantine Huzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the 2013 State Budget allocation of funds to complete the construction of the Dnipro River Bridge in Dniprožinsk. Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomir District State Administration, on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the Žitomir State University of Technology. Igor Vasjunika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional right to housing of residents of the Lviv National University of Physical Culture. Oleg Heleway to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to take measures to ensure that the citizens of Uzhgrad receive free dental care. Oleg Shablatovic to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the issue of the well-being of instigating areas, the renovation of roofs and access, the equipment of children's playgrounds and parking places in the Darnicki district of Kiev, 12/12/1, 14, 14-A, Simferopolskiy, 4, 8, Kharkiv Road, 21, 21/4, as well as the removal of the reception point of the cellar and the entourage in the courtyard of the houses along the street. Simferopolski, 4, and Provoksalni, 14-A. Sergey Kunicina to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the use of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for capital and road construction. Olga Fight with Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, regarding the non-refoulement of the boarding house for senior citizens and disabled persons in the village of Oslamów in the region of Hmeljna Region. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of appropriate response measures to stop illegal activities of gambling operators in Kiev. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the completion of the reconstruction of the city's cultural building in the town of Kozyatin Winnitsky. Valery Golovka to the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine regarding the failure to provide information on the whereabouts of Igor Hannenko, convicted of political graffiti. Arsena Avakov to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine regarding the non-permission of houses at the addresses: Chubara Street, 7 and Mironosicka Street, 11 in Kharkiv City, which is a historical and cultural heritage. Igor Sabia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the allocation of funds, the 2013 budget, and the 2014 budget projects, took place in the village of Čovguzov, the Hmelni district, in order to complete the construction of the Čovguz High School. Igor Sabia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Isiaslav Public Education School No. 4 in the city of Isiaslav of the Hmelni district. Irina Pharion to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office with respect to the restoration of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizen Sergio Melniczuk to receive public language education at the Eastern Ukrainian National University of Vladimir Dal. Victor Zrebnuk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of a significant reduction in drinking water levels in wells of the Stodulecki Rural Council of the Žmerinsky region of the Winnitz region associated with groundwater production. Groups of National Deputies (Fairmarca, Denisova, Soboleva) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the State of Israel on Social Security. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts, which contain signs of criminal offence, as provided for in article 361 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (Unsanctioned interference with electronic computing machines (computers), automated systems, computer networks or electricity networks), and violation of article 258 (General Positions on Intervention in Private Communication) Ukraine’s Criminal Procedural Code. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the non-acceptance of the unjustified closure of the Lysznian and Makovishtan public education schools in the I-III district of Makarov. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take measures to protect the constitutional rights of residents of the village of Palmir Zolotani district of Cherkas region. Maxima Burbak to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Czernovetsk District State Administration in connection with the construction of a district cultural building in the city of Sokirjana Czernovetsek. Rustama Raupov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the preparation of an order by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the Novoguywin Village Council of the Military City Housing Fund No. 84 (Oserne City Village). Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of coal mining. Alexia Kunchenk, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the repair of roads in Lugansk and Donetsk. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the Kovel - Černivci train. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, on the need for urgent action regarding the ecologically dangerous situation in Koveli Volinska oblast in connection with the activities of the Kovellian branch of the state-owned enterprise Ukretsandzavod. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to remove the causes that prevent agricultural producers from carrying out agricultural activities. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, heads of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, heads of the National Commission of Experts on the Protection of Social Morality on the non-admission of television programs that undermine social morality, distort ethical standards, destroy traditional spiritual values among Ukrainians, especially young people. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine for the consideration of a case-law complaint by the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Zyńkow district of Poltavsk for the title of Zynkow Production Department of Housing and Utilities. The branch of the Greenewetsk Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the participation of the Odessa National Political University in international space research. Andrija Pishnoy, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the destruction of the state social insurance system in connection with the transfer of the administration of the sole social contribution from the Pension Fund of Ukraine to the Ministry of Income and Congregations of Ukraine. Mr. Andrija Pishno to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the legality of being members of the College of Accounts after the completion of their term of office. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the proper investigation of criminal conduct into the death of Svetlana Simonchuk. Jury Wozniak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of responsibility for unlawful possession of the entire property complex of the Korean Inter-Collague Sanatorium "Koretz". Irina Farion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on discrimination against Ukrainian language manufacturers of household technology. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inability to send electronic copies of documents through wire and wireless channels. Olga Sikori to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the Kalu City Council. Anton Kisse to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency on the return of the M-15 Odessa-Reni Road station to the status of an international road. Groups of National Deputies (Brichenka, Kirilenka, and others) A total of 14 national deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds from the State Budget for the financing of electricity costs with a view to reducing the cost of water service from irrigation to the Administration of the Ingulatian Irrigation Channel. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on financial offences by the management of the Balaban Village Council of Zaporozhye District. Valery Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response, delay and formal approach to the parliamentary appeal by law enforcement authorities regarding the situation surrounding the peace meeting on 13 April 2013 in Poltava. Oleg Knebieko and Alexia Kayda to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Central Electoral Commission for the verification of violations by the Ternopil Regional Electoral Commission of the constitutional election rights of citizens by abuse of official positions and by bringing the guilty to criminal responsibility. Oleg Knavejkom to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Deputy Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice, Alexander Udivichenko, for the examination of the facts of corruption in the alienation of non-residential premises located on the street of Shevsky, 1, in the city of Lviv, a total area of 1,850 square metres. Eugenia Morozenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the biased actions of Ukraznice officials from not participating in a limited-liability society. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal placement of the Koffishka commercial pavilion on the central street of Poltava, Yellowberry, 34. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration, head of the Poltava City Council on the need for urgent action to preserve the national significance of the building of the Poltava Kadat Corps. Paul Petrenka to the minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for an urgent examination of the legality of allowing the production of beneficial fossils in connection with numerous violations. Paul Petrenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the examination of the facts of the fact that the Ministry of Health has provided information that is not reliable. Michael Gerasimczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of medical reform in the territory of the Sands region of the Vinick region. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the head of the Kharkiv District Administration on the violation of the rules and requirements of the Law on Housing and Utilities for residents of House No. 254 on the Gagarin Avenue in Kharkiv. Jurija Orotyuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-bankruptcy, changes in the form of ownership and violation of the rights of the labour group of the State-owned company Rwenttorf, which is the sole producer of fuel semi-briquettes in the Plain region. Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the All-U.S. Children's Health Program "The East" and the granting of an Eastern State Hall. Paul Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the violation of budgetary legislation requirements in the implementation of centrally managed facilities in the Odessa region. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a formal approach to the consideration of a parliamentary appeal at the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Victoria Babic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of housing and utilities by Sumi officials and the verification of the monopolist's activities in the provision of services for the maintenance of the residential property fund of the Sumizitlo Enterprise. Victoria Babic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Suma region in investigating a criminal case on the basis of the crime provided for in article 191, section 4, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Working for the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine of the Kingdom of Natalia and its advisers on the abuse of the service position with the aim of unlawfully alienating part of the land area of the "Premega" sanatorium in Kiev. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with housing law by the State Architectural and Building Control Inspectorate in Kiev, the private building company Snag-M, the limited liability company Ukrcomplexbud Building Company, in connection with the repair of the non-residential buildings of building No. 6/6 on the street of Bubnov in Kiev. Maxima Burbak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation into the illegal entry into the public reception of the Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Bourbaki. Romana Shugal to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to verify the illegal increase in water tariffs and water supply by the Novodnystrov City Executive Committee of the Chernobyl Region. Groups of National Deputies (Derivljana, Boyka, Apostolic) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to ensure the continuation of the activities of the Cremenic Department for the supply and implementation of gas to the branch of Lvivtransgas Public Stock Exchange. Jacob Besbach to the Dnipropetrov City Head on the work of outdoor lighting networks on the north-west housing array of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Alexia Kayda to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction and inappropriate response by the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil Region and the Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region to violations by the head of the Ternopil district administration of Valentin Hoptjan, head of the Ternopil district government administration, Victor Szczepanovian Law in the field of land relations, protection of cultural heritage, combating the illegal placement of underground gaming facilities in the city of Ternopil and others. Oleg Zarubinski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the promotion of Ukrainian resorts. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about encouraging teachers and schools whose students received high points during an external independent evaluation. Taras Kutovov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the water supply of the inhabitants of the village of Sench in connection with the decline in groundwater levels and their pollution in the process of gas use. Taras Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to be taken to complete the project work at the beginning of the construction of a second line of road around the city of Lochwicz in Poltaw region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the basis of the initial decision to privatize five mining and enrichment plants in the Donetsk region - Komsomolska, Uzlivska, Red Star, Ukraine and Russia, the amount of funds that have come to the State Budget of Ukraine after privatization, the provision of a copy of the privatisation plan and acts to assess the property of the factory and the legality of their alienation, as such corrupt schemes do not give rise to large amounts, and some representatives of the so-called "Family" are enriched in geometric progress. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of emergency response measures to stop corruption by police and high-ranking workers on natural trade in vegetables and fruits near the Fermer market on the streets of Electrotechnical in Trinity. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper and stable supply of bottled gas by balloons at the expense of the residents of the Orgitsky and Horol regions of the Poltava region. Vladimir Pilppeenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renewal of the Society with limited responsibility for "Rajagroud" Special Permit for the use of the drama in connection with its unlawful abolition. Roman Vanzurjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline in the village of the town-type Deep Czernovetskie region. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of environmental legislation and the proper organization of measures regarding the cessation of illegal exports of gravel and gravel mixture from the Dniester River in the Sambrian region of Lviv. Tetjana Sluz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the conduct of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into the disappearance of Irina Filisuk. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of the inhabitants of the village of Borové Za yearning region of the Plains region and for the involvement of officials of the Annual Reservation and the District Council of the Ravens region. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the liquidation of the institutions of the health and epidemiology service in Ukraine. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for public funding at the expense of the State Fund for Regional Development and Repair of Buildings requiring reconstruction in Kirovograd. Igor Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Strategy for Social Welfare Prevention by 2020. Igor Zyrkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to address the water supply problem of the Red spoils of the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, asked the representatives of the City Council of Scandinavia to investigate land abuse and speed up the construction of the project by land structure and the establishment of new borders for the town of Scadovian Herson. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the non-closure of public education and non-school institutions and for the reduction of teaching staff in Ternopilska, as planned by the Head of Ternopil State Administration, Valentin Hoppjan. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of Vladimir Delitkanic. Leonidas Hamtsa to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the preservation of a public utility base — the parking of small-scale boats near Lake Wybubic on lands belonging to the territorial community of Kyiv. Vladimir Katsuba to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to implement decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to transfer property to the municipal property of the Kharkiv region, which led to the illegal eviction of citizens from the dormitory in Dergachi. Alexander of Peace and Igor Sabia to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the head of the Hmeljna District State Administration, the procurator of the Hmeljna District for immediate response to the return of the peasants of the Hmeljov region of the Hmeljna Region of Pastures, who have been unjustifiably transferred to the rule of society with limited responsibility of “Divilla’s Cemetery”, which creates conditions for the inability to maintain a large cattle and causes significant damage to Ukraine’s agro-industrial complex. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the mass violations by the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies guaranteed by the Basic Law on the Rights of Ukrainian Citizens to Freedom of Movement, Freedom of Thought and Word, Freedom of Expression and Belief and Peace in the Preparation and Conducting of the Opposition Action "Arise, Ukraine!" in Kiev. Dear National Deputies! The time for the parliamentary inquiry is over. I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, there are national MPs who have urged me to consider the answers to their parliamentary questions that have been announced at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the national deputies have remained dissatisfied. And according to article 226 of the Supreme Council Rules, I must give my word. You shouldn't. I'm asking you to understand, I'm asking you to write down in one minute how we're going to proceed with the factions, and I'm asking you to sign up. There are three national deputies: Vladimir Litwin, Mirni and Yavorowski. Did you sign up? Yes, I'm asking Martinyuk Company of Ukraine. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. People’s deputies have the absolute right, indeed, to ask the Head to express their dissatisfaction with the answer to their requests. But there are two shades, the first shade. Regrettably, indeed, the executive or other structures to which we refer are practically ignored. Thus, virtually every national MP on every request would have the opportunity and should have done so to speak. And for the second, there's one warning: we MPs have that right, but unfortunately, there's no way, because within 30 minutes, we're being asked questions. If there is time left after the parliamentary requests have been read, then the national MP has the right to request dissatisfaction with the request. Since more than 30 minutes have passed, not all questions have yet been answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Chechtev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! I also support Adam Ivanovich as part of the need to abide by the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're within 30 minutes of Friday. On the one hand, requests to the President with a vote in the Chamber are read out, that is the procedure, requests to other executive bodies, to other entities, are simply read out and sent as they say. If the answers come and the answers do not suit the writer, then the answer is correct. These answers could be discussed. But again, according to the Rules, within 30 minutes. Therefore, the opposition could simply be advised less to write empty populistic requests to the Government, allowing the Government to work. Fewer questions will arise, and then you will have time to discuss the answers that do not suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u62	Thank you. Fatherland faction, one minute, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised at the approach that has recently taken since the MP's request is part of the daily work of the National MP. And it's not our problem that we have a government that has no power and officials -- bribes that we have to respond to and write parliamentary requests. And the more parliamentary inquiries, the worse the executive system works, and that's pretty obvious. So I'm convinced that, Vladimir Vasilovich, the regulatory committee had to find time and hold such a meeting, and look at how these answers go, who answers, how much they respond to parliamentary questions. And it's quite obvious that we shouldn't be held for 30 minutes. We can increase this time to have all the parliamentary queries announced first. And our colleagues, with whom either a defiant answer or a vengeful one came, had the opportunity to speak again. That's why we're so respectful of the MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u64	The Freedom Union. Vitalia Klitschka, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u65	Vladimir Vasilovich, in fact, is very keen on questions and all, especially opposition deputies, have encountered them in their work. For example, Mikola Janovich Azarov doesn't answer any of my questions, letters and petitions for two months after the Kabmin incident. Therefore, this issue needs to be discussed and given the opportunity to speak. The second question is, let's look at the unreputable Prime Minister and ask him why he didn't come to the session hall today after such resonant, unprecedented events for our history to report on his position. What was so important that he was distracted? How much do I know, gay parade tomorrow, not today, why wasn't there a cabinet manager in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u66	Freedom Union, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u69	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. Dear Mr. Head, if we are asking MPs, we are obviously violating the current problems and waiting for them to be solved, not the powerless hand-stretching or the write-offs. I've been asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the paradox that today we have the first tariff charge in a single tariff grid below the minimum wage. Instead of explaining how to get out of this absurdity, I am told by the Prime Minister that this is not part of the government budget for 2013 and that it takes 43 billion dollars. Excuse me, but how did you plan the state budget last year? Next question. A new Law on State Service was passed last year. There is a corresponding increase in wages. This year it's not being implemented in this part. Again, to explain to me what steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed these issues. You can put your hands down. We agree that the Rules are Rules. On the following plenary Sunday, we will reserve time for deputies to take part in the sessions of the Supreme Council. And now we're going to continue the session. The question is: the draft Act on the cessation of parts of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (as regards the suspension of the ban on the removal of land). Projects of the National Deputies: Fedoruk, National Deputy Saldo, and People’s Deputy Mirimsky That's why the offer is short-circuited. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:43:05]] For 1052 Against 76. We're holding on to 11. We didn't vote, 176. The decision is not taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u71	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On January 1, 2013, part three and part four of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control took effect. The effectiveness of these rules provides that in the absence of a zone plan or a detailed plan for the territory, the transfer or transfer of land from state and municipal property and the use of natural and legal persons for urban needs are prohibited. It is also prohibited to change the target destination of a land area that does not correspond to the territorial zoning plan or to a detailed plan of the territory. In the absence of such urban documentation, such a ban has virtually halted investment in the development of urban areas, such as the construction sector. The difficult situation in the development or updating of urban documentation was mainly due to the failure to account for the imbalances in development and the sustainability of the population points in the adoption of Ukraine's Urban Action Regulation Act, which determined that financing of land-planning work was done at the expense of the relevant local budgets. At the same time, funding for the development of the necessary urban documentation for the existing local budgeting system during 2013 is not feasible, as the 2013 budget provides for a significant financial deficit for the implementation of delegated states. A total of about 20 percent, that is, almost 30 billion dollars. As a result, it can be argued that in the last quarter of 2013 and last year, by the way, budget staff in the population area are not paid, there is no cost of utilities and energy bills. Thus, local authorities will be forced to direct their own funds to finance delegated powers in 2013. In fact, local self - government agencies, directing the full amount of their own income to cover the deficit, are forced to refuse to finance the development of urban documentation. Various sources say that up to 10 percent of the population have detailed plans and master plans. Hence, it is suggested that these articles, articles 24 of these paragraphs, be stopped until January 1, 2015. What makes this bill different from others? Only by proposing to stop these, this article. And in other bills, it's time to cancel. From our point of view, it will stop more correctly. After all, it is possible to postpone only things that have not entered into force. And since the law and this article have entered into force, it will be more appropriate to postpone. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! Any questions to the reporter? None. I can't see. Now I see. Please sign up. Please, Freedom Union, Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u74	Let's give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u75	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to ask. Didn’t the Party of Regions and Communists know when they had adopted the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, which would be such a problem? Today, not only is the lack of funds from local authorities but it is the fact that last year 7 months blocked the State Treasury, including the production of this documentation! And this year, the censuses of local communities have been blocked since January. And local communities cannot produce the necessary urban documentation. Also, as you'll be commenting, are our design institutions ready today to produce this amount of documentation? Thus, of course, this law must be adopted. But why such thoughtless steps on the part of the government and the Party of the Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u76	Well, it's hard for me to answer that question. Because we did not share with you in the adoption of this law. It was adopted in 2011. But it is an urgent need to correct it. I think there's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u77	Thank you. National MP, Freedom Union, Switzerland
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u80	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. That is a question to a respected reporter. This is in the context of the sensitive problem of dividing the land of state and municipal property. In your opinion, this bill will remove the problem as a whole, or further changes to existing legislation should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u81	He won't take away the problem completely. But what it takes a long time to do work on the delimitation of state and municipal property is an urgent necessity, and this issue has already matured. It must be done immediately. But this bill will not take away the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u82	There was no question. Freedom Union, National Deputy Sich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u83	May I have the floor of the MP to the Peacekeeper?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u84	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u85	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear reporter, please tell us why it was necessary to submit alternative bills immediately after your bill has been passed. And from what I understand, your bill, which is filed by the opposition, is the best. But in that committee, where there's no majority, he didn't get any support, and everything is being done to get this bill to go down. Do you think a political element is needed in such matters, or should we use common sense? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u86	I don't think there should be a political element here, and we need to use common sense. As Confucius once said, no matter what color the cat is, it is important that it catch the mouse. The same is true of common sense. I've already mentioned that the more correct formulation is "stop." "Determining" is what's in other bills, maybe something that hasn't entered into force. Since the law has been in force since January 1, it should be stopped until January 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u87	Illenko, "Freedom" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u88	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear Mikola Trochymovich, we generally understand the essence of this bill. But I would like in context, since we're already talking about the topic of construction today, of course I would also like to know your opinion about the situation with the absolutely chaotic constructions of the historical part, for example, the city of Kiev, and about this kind of expansion of the building mafia that is in Kiev today, and in many other cities in Ukraine that are destroying the historical face of our cities and in general contribute to the degradation of our homes, our houses. And in this regard, a lot of people are concerned. Perhaps it would be interesting for parliamentarians to hear your opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. I also do not like the way the city of Kiev, especially its central historical part, has been built in recent years. I can say that from our experience in Cherniv, we decided that 226 hectares of historical construction of the city would not be there a new barrier, just a restoration. I think that these decisions need to be made, including perhaps at a national level, so that the historical, let's say, city centers don't forget where they have historical value. I have seen the need, and your question is most fitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u90	Thank you. Sit down, Mikola Trochymovich. Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich is invited to report the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I'm going to talk about the same topic that Mikola Trochymovich just spoke about, and the draft Law on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation is aimed at removing the obstacles that have arisen from the introduction of the law. Which prohibits the transfer or transfer of land from state or municipal property for construction purposes if there are no plans for zoning or detailed land plans in the city’s city documentation, villages, and villages. Even when there is a master plan, everything can be taken away and formed. In fact, these obstacles apply to the entire nation. Because at the beginning of the year, 33 zoning plans were approved in Ukraine. As a result, most of the population does not even have the right to consider the projects developed by the land administration. Residents and businesses prepare land records, pay for them, pay for projects, agree on documents developed, and submit them for approval by local authorities. Documents to be approved by the Earth Code in two weeks are neither approved nor considered at all. This causes many discontents. The final decisions on land are not made. Earth relations are not organized. Human rights are not being established. Local budgets at the same time do not receive funds. Bill 2363/1, by the way, the committee was looking at all three bills. They're essentially the same. That's what Mikola Trochymovich was talking about. But here's Bill 2363/1 to help improve public policy in the area of construction. It will allow the local authorities to complete the development process without stopping the approval of the projects by means of a land system for people, and to approve the zoning plans and detailed plans of the territories. In order to address this problem, Bill 2363/1 proposes to make further changes to the law on urban regulation. Section 5 "Final Positions" in sub-paragraph 1, paragraph 1, and in paragraph 6 of the 2013 figure, replace it with 2015 digits. Please support the proposed bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, the Motherland Union, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u93	Mikola Tomenko, "The Fatherland", please pass the word to an expert in the area of construction and defender Kyiv Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u94	Please, Odarchenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u95	Dear colleagues. In general, all these bills must be considered, adopted, because construction issues are blocked in district centers. But I think in the second reading, we have to clear the city of Kiev out of the law. Because in the city of Kiev and the plans for zoning and planning for the construction of the territories, they are overworked, and if we postpone the operation of this law in Kiev, we will continue to be able to subvert chaoticly against the interests of the people living in these territories. I want to ask Mr. Saldo how his bill differs from all the other bills, because they are almost the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u96	The essence of the bill is indeed the same, but in order for it to work more faithfully, in order for people to be able to form their land in populated areas, not only in district centres, but also in law not to use the term "delay" or "stop". That is, the bill 2362-1 proposed to replace only the figures in sub-paragraph 1 and paragraphs 6 - 2013 for 2015. I emphasize that this will enable people to approve, at the same time, land-based documentation to the local councils – on the one hand, it will stimulate local self-government and local government authorities to complete their work in the development of zoning plans and detailed territorial plans. For Kiev, indeed, the offer is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u97	I'm requesting the Motherland faction of Brigine, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u98	Brigitte, Fatherland, Oblon. I am a member of the city council of Kiev, and I will tell you very clearly that if the law is passed in this way, it will cause substantial damage to Kiev. And what's more, not just Kiev, but all the historic cities, it's going to do schools and Odessa, it's going to do schools and Lviv, it's going to do damage to Chernigu, Kharkiv, in other cities, where there's big areas of historical oblation. So I certainly support my colleague Odarchenk for the fact that the central parts of the historic cities of Kiev are not primarily to be softened for a period of time. But extend it to all the historic cities. Because the only thing we're going to do today is if we adopt this law in the way it is right now, we're going to open a gateway to forget about the central parts. So it must be predicted that in the central parts of the historic cities and foresight these historic cities would not be allowed to build without zoning, but in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u99	I will explain because we have considered and discussed these issues on the committee. In large cities such as: Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv, they already have master plans and master plans, and they are approved, and zoning plans, and detailed land plans. So there's a limit that works just the same. It worked both until 2010, 2011 and will now work. For all other cities, documentation must continue to be developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u100	Please Bondarenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u101	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland, city of Kiev. Dear reporter, I'm not going to talk about the central part, because that's what we're talking about, but it's about the very gross errors of the city building that are allowed in connection with the absence or lack of zoning. In Kiev, it was planned to take 300 hectares [300 ha] under the Trieste industrial zone in order to soften the traffic flows from the left bank to the right. There were already two areas on the left bank, two large trolleybus-vehicles, where two depots were supposed to be located. While in power, the volunteers transferred all of this to the Kyivrada, which was and is still being sold, not Kiev, and moved all of this into a residential building, making the transport situation in Kiev worse, achieved that today these streams simply do not digest the Kiev streets. You can't build big megapolises without zoning. So let's take that into account, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u102	Thank you. I completely agree with your opinion, and it stresses that the zoning plans, the detailed plans of the territories, need to be developed by professionals in specialized design institutions and organizations in order not to repeat Kiev's mistakes. This will be a serious example for other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich, sit down. Is there a people's MP? I won't. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Dmitri Josephovich Andriyewski. Please. One minute, please. Honorable deputies, will we take a break or work? Shall we? We won't. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u105	Thanks for the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! All three bills have a main objective to address: to allow local self-government authorities to transfer land to state-owned public property for the purpose of construction. In view of this, all three bills deserve support. But the committee carefully studied all three materials and as one of the most balanced, legally prepared and consistent with the tasks that lie ahead of the bill, Project 2363-1, which was submitted by our colleagues Saldo, Briko, Gershovi, Kartashiv and Lubonenko. This project is proposed to be based, two other projects to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u107	Any questions? Yeah. Sign up for a coconspirator on the question. I'm asking the people's deputy of Labunsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u108	National Deputy of Labunska, Zitomirščina. I have another proposal, because this law is in great need of all the regions of our Ukraine, not just the big cities, let us accept it today both in the first reading and in general. What should we send for the second reading when we simply postpone the deadlines? And everyone knows that we, I think, need to work, because today there is no money in cities to produce this technical documentation. We need to help local councils to do this, because without this, without State support, they will never be able to produce the documents that need to be developed today and all. I know it needs to be delayed today, but there's something very important to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u109	Freedom Union, Chevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u110	Thank you. Please tell me, how does the bill address the relationship between the articles of the Earth and the Water Code and your project? I'm talking about the protection lanes on the banks of the rivers, on the banks of the lakes, and so on. Because it is known that there are too many violations of water and land laws today. How does your bill solve this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. In fact, there are very big problems on this issue that you're raising, but this bill only applies to the suspension of the City Building Act by 1 January 2015. Other issues are regulated by other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u112	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u113	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u114	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u115	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina You know, a wonderful, distinguished reporter, a colleague, a seniorist of our Kiev, you know very well that when Popov took his post, he said -- he still had such an open-minded approach -- he said that the Czernovetsk team had stolen 70 billion lands in Kiev. It is clear that much of these lands are designed for construction. Because of this law, of course, we need to adopt. I just don't understand why the committee is leaning towards the Mirimsky project, which, by the way, last year continues this ban, not the other one. But in general, I'm convinced that which bill is not going to be adopted, it's still going to be good. But explain again why you supported Miriamsky's project, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u116	Thank you, thank you for asking. I am confident that the activities of Chernewsky will still be under consideration, and a legal assessment of this activity will be given. As far as this bill is concerned, this is the bill of our colleague Saldo. It will expire by January 1, 2015. As for our colleague Fedoruk, there are some legal differences. So the committee defined Project 2363-1 of our colleague Saldo as the most important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat. Have a seat. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. Please, National Deputy Kurpil, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u118	Please pass the word to my colleague Yuri Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u119	Yuri Odarchenko, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Of course, all these bills need to be supported because they resolve the issues that have arisen in Ukraine’s villages and villages today. Dear friends, I would like to highlight the question. If the Party of Regions, the Party of Power, sincerely wanted to address the issue of lawful land tenure, it would have decided that budgets would be set aside for these general plans to be implemented and that communities would develop normally. I'm pointing out that we haven't seen a single penny in the budget to solve this problem. Instead, we’re going to solve it in such a manual manner today. I think we need to continue to ask questions so that the budget takes into account the cost of creation, for the development of general plans. Dear friends! I want to point out to you that this is a matter that needs to be resolved, but with the exception of the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. Because the city of Kiev has also developed zoning plans and plans for the territories. Today in Kiev, there is no obstacle to this law working properly, and the earth is placed in legal order. So I propose that these bills be considered, accepted as a whole, but with the exception of the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the government of Timoshenko, the Supreme Council has passed laws that have allowed for public discussion in the forgotten territories. As soon as the Party of Regions came to power, they immediately amended the legislation on urban documentation and there disappeared any public influence on the construction of the territories. I think it's also important, not the work and committee, and the Supreme Council, and we have to turn the public's influence on the construction of the territories, destroy the impact of the Party of Regions on this building, but reverse the influence of the public. Friends! And in discussing further plans for a detailed forgetfulness, I think we need to ask the public clearly whether or not she wants to forget one or another territory. Whether she wants to or doesn't want to see housing in her backyard or some kind of industrial building. I repeat, I support these three bills. I propose to vote for any one of them. But with the inclusion of "exclusion for the city of Kiev", with the exception of the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u121	I'm asking you, the faction of the Party of Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! There's no need to destroy anyone. We learned in years of independence to destroy each other. Let's build and guide bridges between people. This is very important and fundamental. So all these bills, they have the right to life. And the honourable deputy of Fedoruk, and the honourable deputy of Miriam, and the honourable deputy of Saldo. Our faction will support a member of the Party of Regions, former mayor, Mr. Saldo. Why? Because the adoption of this bill will contribute to the improvement of public policy in the area of construction and will allow local self-government authorities to stop the transfer to ownership and use of land for natural and legal persons. After all, complete the construction process required by article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Planning. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! We get extra money, extra money for local budgets. And we will be able to implement numerous social programs to help people with disabilities, lonely, veterans. And the adoption of this bill will give you a green street and a building industry. Unfortunately, she stopped today, you know. And for private people who want to build. And to the end. The faction will support Mr. Saldo's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u123	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Kilinkarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my views on this law. His attitude is far from clear because all three draft laws do not essentially solve the problem. The only thing we are trying to do today is to give local self-government authorities additional time for this documentation to be developed. From this point of view, I would like to inform the people's deputies of the situation that has taken place today. The overall percentage of general plan provision tends to decrease according to the status of the population, and is 85 percent for district centres, the city of Kiev, Sevastopol, and Simferopol. For urban, republican cities, 62 percent, 42 percent, and 21 percent, respectively. As far as the zoning plan is concerned. There's been a terrible situation here. There is no plan for zoning in Vinnitsky, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kirovograd, Lugansk, Lvivsky, Mikolaiivsky, Odessa, Sumski, Ternopil and Cherkasian regions. As far as detailed plans are concerned. Here's the situation. The largest number is developed in the Lviv region. In general, 624 detailed plans have been developed. If we give up the deadline until 2015 and we suspend these articles, we give up the local authorities in general to make decisions on land. You can't do that. So the Communist faction will support the bill proposed by our colleague Saldo. We call for a vote, we can vote in the first reading and in general for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u125	Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u128	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Freedom faction will support the bill that is proposed, but in our opinion, the best bill of our colleague of the Fedoruk People's Deputies (2363). He's the most prepared one, and he's stopping the norm, not the deferral. I'd like to say that today thousands of our citizens. Ukrainians are unable to make land, for from January 1st, without a PDP, without a planned zoning plan, land cannot be taken away. I'd like to point out that. That where detailed planning plans have been adopted, where a zone plan has been adopted, other urban documentation cannot be used. Thus, in those cities where such urban documentation is accepted today, only land areas are allocated according to this approved documentation. But I would like to point out that today the adoption of this law is the result of the fact that the Party of Regions, along with the Communists, passed a thoughtless Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities. And so today, this collapse was caused in the area of construction and in the area of land allocation. Did they not know that local authorities today do not have millions of dollars to draw up plans for detailed planning and zoning? Did not everyone today feel the work of the State Treasury when the censuses, including the development of urban documentation, were blocked last year for 7 months? And since January of this year, the cost estimates for construction documents have been blocked. In particular, I would like to say that we are not prepared to produce this amount of urban documentation by project certified institutions today. It should be borne in mind that today Kabmin’s inactivity and the Ministry of Profitability have no coordination in the preparation and development of plans for detailed planning and funding for local communities, villages, villages, and urban communities. In particular, what I would like to say is that today requires the development of substantive legislation on State control, which today actually gives permission to build, not taking into account the opinion of the community, but very often brings into operation our buildings, our dwellings without light, without adequate water supply, and many other problems. In particular, it should be recalled that the order of the daily faction of Freedom was introduced by a bill amending articles 39, 39/1 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation on the payment by the builder of the cost of fuel for the development of infrastructure. Which is actually going to allow the community to get extra money. But for some reason, the consideration of this bill is delayed. And to the end. A party of regions and communists is enough to abuse local self - government! Return the right of communities to manage property and land.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u129	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u130	I give you the word "Solda."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u131	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u132	Thank you very much. It's Vitaly Klitschka, Oksana Prodan. I want to remind everyone why this rule on land allocation restrictions has been adopted. Because most of the community in district centers in other cities struggled with the abuse of local self - government authorities and tried to arrange for the city’s documentation to be available. Regrettably, those organs of local self - government that want to decimate continue to decimate the earth. And those economic and independent people today have no opportunity to form land for themselves. Just to break this rule, the suspension of restrictions will allow for the continuation of the ladder that is happening today, primarily in the capital of our country, in Kiev. We are firmly opposed to what is happening today in the city council of Kiev. And against what happened. And so the strike faction not only proposes to support the entire Supreme Council with the proposed bill today, but that the Supreme Council do three actions today: first, it supported the bill that we are currently considering. We think that the best editor is Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. And please put this bill to the vote first. The second thing we need to do with you is to go to the CIA from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from the profile committee about places where, as in Kiev, documentation has already been developed, but it's not being submitted to the Council and it's not being approved. And so the log continues, the sale of the land of the one belonging to the citizens of Ukraine continues. And the third thing the impact faction proposes to do is to consider the bill of our deputy from the Vitalia Klitka Dubnevich Faction 2995, which is a continuation of that project that we are considering with you today. We suggest that in those cities where there is no funding to develop general plans and documentation, the state budget will ensure that funding is made available to document-making -- it is absolutely necessary, and then you and I should be with you through the CIA, through law enforcement authorities, forcing officials to accept and legitimize all that applies to our Ukrainian land with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u133	Thank you. The discussion is over. Is there a closing word? There are those who would like to speak with the deputies, please sign up. I beg you, the Fatherland faction, Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u134	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!'Kiyev. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u135	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u136	Colleagues, I wanted to point out that we have two extremes in this discussion, some colleagues say that we can save the country and the Kiev, and the district centers will start to build up and people will live happily so that we don't have the illusion that these bills really are a correction of a little mistake, not a definition of the general principles of public policy. It is no longer our understanding that today there is a deliberate policy of not discussing and adopting new genealogy with the public. In order not to prepare a zoning plan and a detailed plan of the territory, because it is possible without public discussion, you can build what you think is necessary – to refine the houses. As a colleague here has been speaking, as Kiev has recently experienced, it means how he has lived for Chernewsky, friends should, in general, I think to those people who have worked with Chernewsky the word "Kiyev" in general to forbid speaking, because we will still be going to that period of the Czernowian years. And to think like the billions of dollars, and the land that students have been given to work with on July. I've been writing about Kiev-Pecher Lavra for days as one of the most outstanding historical objects in the Left Bank we've tried to take down the Kiev-Pecher Lavra to see one of these uncovered robots and monsters. So the tour guides told me that the Soviet authorities were building this "Mother Family" and when they saw that the peak of the sword was higher than the dome, they cut off a piece of this sword, because it was wrong for someone to be taller. Today, in Gruszewski, 9a times 10 were touched by the building above. And the building at the Salut Hotel is the same as the monster's hand on the other side came upon Kiev-Pepper Lavra and normal people live there, and our colleagues there normally do not interfere with them either with Lavra or their values or their morals. And I'm asking, how did these houses get here? And we have such a cunning scheme in Kiev. We have to vote better, you know this house of the H.E.B., there's no place to live, they're poor. So you have to set up a house for the B.S.A., and this building for the D.A. is actually set aside for free under the construction of the B.S.A. and the D.A.'s office. Obviously, then it's 10 times reselled all the money they get and eventually the building that's being allocated to the 9th floor employees of the BSS becomes 21st floor and becomes. Well, it's clear who lives there. So it's pretty obvious that this law actually is what we're deferring. The need for public policy, the need to fund the State Budget, the geneplans in all cities, needs to be discussed. In Kiev, it's quite obvious that I would have stood in that position that the Henplan would probably have to be approved in the Supreme Council or at an extended meeting there almost to the President. Because, according to the miscreant, there's nothing we can do about it. So, my friends, we're voting for Fedoruk's bill, but we're thinking about strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u137	The Fatherland faction, the Lunchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u138	Valerius Lunchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Hennadia Zubka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u139	Let's give you a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to listen carefully to all the factions present in the hall. I wish this bill hadn't been politicized right now. Today, it was introduced by two authors: the first author, the former city chief of the Chernivites, and the second author, was the former city head of the town of Herson. Today, I'm sorry, not only do all the questions come to Kiev, but today there are a lot of millionaire cities that unfortunately don't have a master plan, or a detailed plan or a zoning plan. So I would like today to have those MPs who are present in the hall, and today this is not a political issue, but it's about people who are living and who want to create and invest and who want to develop. And I would like to see the Bill and Fedoruk supported today, regardless of the political power from which it comes, and if it does not pass, Mr. Saldo's bill is supported. Thus, today the moratorium does not solve all questions. Today, there is no solution to the issue of financing the issue. So this is a question that we're going to work on and do in such a way that it's not just the local budgets today that carry this difficult and difficult work. So I invite everyone here today, first of all, to return to the hall, right? To vote and support this bill. And secondly, vote first for Fedoruk's bill, because it's little different from Mr. Saldo's project. And if the Fedoruk project doesn't go through, support the Saldo project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u141	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the National Deputies Hall. Freedom Union, Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u142	Please give it to Oleg Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u143	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, here a colleague of Marcinkov has already said that the changes to the law to which detailed planning of the territories has been introduced have been thoughtlessly adopted by the Party of Regions and Communists. I want to make something clear to him, these changes have been taken very carefully. And we have a clear example of a corrupt scheme, it's just to introduce this corrupt scheme and take these changes. In the past, the local territorial communities had two components: the master plan and the city foundation, and they worked normally for years on such a scheme. No, a detailed plan of the territory had to be introduced. Today, some territorial communities do not have the funds to develop and adopt master plans, and where will they take the funds to accept the detailed plans of the territory? We can see that. What's the result? So you have to develop detailed land plans, and this gives you the right to project organizations and landowners, who get very high costs, who get a lot of money. So it was lobbying specifically for specific subjects of entrepreneurial activity, so that these subjects could engage in this kind of activity in making these plans, they had to go to Kiev to the Ministry, bring bribes, and then get a license to do so. Why these changes were not brought to the attention of the Supreme Council until the new year when they had not yet entered into force, but almost six months after all the city’s construction work had stopped. all the territorial communities, are we just looking at this today? But since the licenses have already been obtained, the project organizations have already received licenses in the Ministry, bribes imported, money received, bribes, now that it's okay, we can cancel this rule. Nevertheless, it must be abolished. Since the new year, the problem has become a problem not only for the territorial communities but also for every citizen. Individuals, people with state-owned property rights to land areas, can't change the target of this area, and they can't shape anything as they want. Just as it has been said, complete urban activity has been halted. It's a question, it is. If we suspend this law today, it won't solve this issue in the complex. We're just gonna crack a hole, but we need to fix it. But in the process of halting this rule, we need to send this law down to the capital -- and make it normal, complex changes to forgive this procedure -- we're talking about simplifying it. And here, on the contrary, it's getting complicated, it's getting complicated with one goal, as I said before, for the birth of corruption. Our faction will support this bill because of another way out. We're just going to dig into all the territorial communities. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u145	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tears.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u147	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I think how much time we're going to have to spend later on correcting all the fatal, huge legislative mistakes that we're going to make right now in this room, and even in this convening. I'm not talking about calling the previous one. In fact, Ukrainian legislation should be broken, broken by amendments, very often by skin amendments designed to satisfy the needs of a particular group, such as one or another, or one of the clans. That's exactly what happened with the Construction Act. In fact, the bill completely ruled out the public’s influence on making final decisions on the ground and on the construction of buildings. My Trinity, where I'm elected by the People's MP, literally every week, there's this huge conflict where without permission, without public discussion, there's a 9-story new house planned and there's going to be a 20- or 25-story building. People mutiny, rebel, go to court to defend their basic right-to-right. Because of this, you know how much is being built today in the capital of the gindelicians, watermelons, baboons (as they are called) near kindergartens, near schools, and so forth. Now they're quickly being bricked and turned into a fundamental, so to speak, structure. This bill. This is where my colleagues who spoke before me said. This bill forced the authors to accept and respond immediately to three people from different factions. It's also very, very showy, by the way. And really this bill doesn't solve the fundamental question, it's just taking a break to stop what's going on in the same Kiev. I've already told you, 70 billion of the land is stolen in Kiev, and much of it is going to go, of course, under construction. And at the same time, the simple person who comes to the reception, let's say they can't get to me very often those pathetic ones out there five or six hundred around the city because they can't form these documents. That's why we'll do a good thing today if we vote for any law. I say again, there's one stopping, the other imposing a moratorium. But if we stop this vacchanal for a while, but in this time, I'm talking to three of these authors, we just have to think about making fundamental amendments to this law to make it work. Because we're gonna turn Kiev into a laughingstock. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u149	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u150	Ivanchuk, Fatherland. Please give the floor to Deputy Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u151	Please, Deputy Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u152	Dear friends! I'd like to say that we're making changes to the bill with you because. to the law, more specifically, on urban activity, which at one time was a pretty good law. And his only flaw is what Deputy Yavorowski just said. That there is a public exclusion when it comes to the removal of land. Yes, it's his fault, we pointed out our time in 2011, to him. Everything else in it was just fine. And he was significantly improving and simplifying at the same time, and making less corrupt, and at the same time speeding up the city building, taking up the city building documentation throughout the construction phase. But it was obvious that we had failed to do the main thing. And now the builders are speaking for it. This will sort out the land collection process itself according to the needs of the city. What is now being proposed? It is now proposed to exclude by 2015 the development of detailed planning of the territory or its simplified version of zoning. What will that mean? This will mean that, in fact, back in Pechersk, around Kiev-Pecher Lavre will try to build 24-story buildings. Indeed, there will be an attempt, after they have taken away the land for the purposes of, say, a cultural institution or an educational institution, at this point, in violation of the general plan and plan for detailed planning of the territory, to build a residential building, such as a building with network loads. Practically the law of these, on urban activities, says that a detailed planning of the area is needed before building anything in one place or another. And to figure out what you can build here, according to existing infrastructure or what you can build here to make people comfortable. So now, if we postpone to 2015 or until 2014, we're going to make people uncomfortable. And once again, we're going to have all of these questions, when they're being built around Sofia, when they're being built over Lavra. And so many examples will be found not only in Kiev but throughout Ukraine. That's why we're doing bad things now by adopting these bills. Because we're actually importing, once again, vacchanalism, and once again, I want to say, the corruption component. Because everything will now depend on local architects who will say yes or no. Not from what was approved on the appropriate councils as a detailed planning of the territory. So we're essentially saying we're passing laws with you, but we're not able to execute them and we're not able to follow them, and we're going to force local councils to do that. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u153	Thank you. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u154	Dear friends, we have yet to foresee, indeed, there was a wise proposal – to finance local budgets so that they can develop this detailed planning. This would be important so that we can make it useful, not stop the law, because by 2015 no DPT will be done, as will zoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u155	Thank you. I ask you to invite the deputies to the session room for a vote. Is the concluding word in the interviewers or the co-reports? Please, National Deputy Saldo Volodymir Vasilovich. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u156	First of all, I want to thank all those who have taken part in the discussion of this subject that concerns many people, fellow MPs from different factions. And I'm going to point out that this bill is going to be able to form land areas, land-based documentation not just for new construction. Because right now people can't form even in areas where there are buildings, where there are already objects. And so let's all vote together for it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to make your decision. Please be prepared. I'm voting on the bill (Registration No. 2363, Fedoruk People's Deputies) on the suspension of parts of the third and fourth articles of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (as regards the suspension of the ban on the removal of land) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[12:40:06]] For-142 Against 3, held – 31, not voted – 183. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The factions. When we vote, we'll all be motivated. I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for your attention! Draft Law (No.2363-1) of the National Deputy of Ukraine Saldo on the cessation of parts of the third and fourth articles of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (as regards the suspension of the ban on the removal of land). To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[12:41:16]] For-286 Against - 1, holding – 1, not voting – 70. Decision taken. The factions. Got to know each other. Can we set up a law in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote on the bill (2363-1) on the suspension of parts of the third and fourth articles of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (for the extension of the ban on land collection) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[12:42:16]] For-164 Against 23, held – 70, not voted – 97. The decision is not taken. Please on the grounds of the vote. The factions were recorded one minute at a time. Please, Mirni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u159	Oleg Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u160	Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head of the Ukrainian Parliament, well, look, every time we face such unpleasant procedural issues. On the one hand, in some matters you are very principled, and you say that if there is a point to the basis, you cannot put in general what, by the way, corresponds to the Rules. And at some point, you don't seem to notice that half the room is screaming, that there is a remark and you can't put it in general. We ask you very much, and we beg you to comply with the Ukrainian Rules in all cases. Not just in cases that are convenient for the Party of Regions. Thank you. If you have any comments, please do not ask the whole question. And they shouldn't have asked that question. As a result, the bill was passed. What was the purpose of doing so? What's more, we voted for him as an opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u161	We did not fail, but the law was passed in the first reading. Please, the Motherland Union, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u162	Vladimir Vasilovich, there's a request for you. Just as we have not adopted this bill as a whole and, in order to adopt it in the next plenary week, put to the vote to double the bill's submission to the second reading. Then we will be able to vote in general next Tuesday in the first plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u163	Let me put this proposal to the vote and move on. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:44:52]] For 244 Against - 1, held - 0, unvoted - 86. The deadline for preparing for the second reading was halved. Decision taken. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering draft regulation 2103 on the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. How will we view it? No discussion? Then I will give the floor to the report to Grenevetski Sergey Rafeilovich. Please, two minutes. And I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u164	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues. The main purpose of the decision is to ensure the legislative process and to organise urgent matters by the Supreme Council of Ukraine between 1 July and 12 July 2013, which meets the requirements of part one of the first article of the "Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". The draft decision proposes to bring the news to the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation, scheduled for the week from 1 July to 5 July: 1 July - Conciliation Council meeting, 2 July plenary meeting, 3 July plenary session, committee work, commissions and factions, 4 July plenary meeting, 5 July - "Questions to the Office", plenary session and closing of the session. And the week from July 8th to July 12th is work on committees, commissions and factions. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, you can put it to the vote. I'm betting on the vote of the draft Decree 2103 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:47:36]] For 239. Against 0, held – 7, not voted – 78. Decision taken. The factions. Got to know each other. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 13 minutes to work. There's no short-circuit procedure going through. That's why we're not going to look at the laws, and we're going to go to the "Variance" section. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please sign up. Got it. The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy. Please come to the rostrum. Deputies, Rules 3 minutes, Pavlovsky's national deputy, first. He's having a hard time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u166	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Dear fellow countrymen, I'd like to address you, especially the socially vulnerable. Now in the media, there's information that the government wants to make a monetaryization of the benefits, which is actually going to cancel these benefits. There's a sad experience of the Russian Federation when they did this so-called "monetization of the benefits," they canceled the benefits in advance, and then they started calculating the monetary compensation, and they were social tensions and disturbances in Russia. We've seen it all. The government wants to repeat this unfortunate experience right now in Ukraine, they want to start with travel tickets, so that pensioners, those categories of pensioners who have the right to travel free of charge, can replace this benefit with money. But I understand she'll only be on weekdays. What if that same grandmother doesn't have to go to the market on Christmas Eve? And the more it's done in secret, the more people don't ask. How will the taxpayers react to this so - called monetaryization of these benefits? What's more, we have a sad experience of both the Chernobyls and the Afghans and the children of war, when the government, contrary to the legislation, has passed the social protection laws of these social categories, and in the Transitional Regulations of the State Budget for this year, 2013, in fact, has suspended these laws, and now millions of socially vulnerable taxpayers are not fully receiving the social assistance they were supposed to receive. There's a threat that these plans of Natalia Royale because of what's called "monetization" would simply deprive the socially defenseless of the population of the benefits they had before they were used to and used to. That's why we, as an opposition, the Fatherland, in particular, demand that we do another experiment, make another improvement over the Ukrainian people, have a public discussion, so-called, the idea of monetaryizing the benefits, and still look at the consequences that this monetaryization can have. We have to stop experimenting with the Ukrainian people, we have to stop what's called "improvement," because it's for the common people who work. Pensioners are only getting worse and this is actually the social genocide of Ukraine. And so in order not to have the horrendous proceeds of this monetaryization, we still have to discuss this issue with specialists, professionals, representatives of the population's income categories, and then make an informed decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u167	Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Samoylenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament! For each of us, it is not news that in virtually all sectors of the economy today, there has been a complete decline. A particularly critical situation has been in the light industry, which has been budgeting, has had a positive impact on people’s well - being. In this area, by the 1990s, there were more than six hundred companies that had nearly eight hundred thousand people working. Now 80 are left, or 1 in 10 is out of work. During the Soviet period, the light industry was the second since Russia, producing 40 percent of the goods, and providing almost half of the funds for them. Before the State budget. Today, these gains have been lost. Not a better situation in the Zitomir region. This destroyed everything, leaving more than 20,000 people unemployed, looted by famous enterprises such as Korostenski, Baranivski, Urbanski, other porcelain factories, the company with the world's brand, the Panchish factory, where 350 workers were cut short last year, sent to Leto and a glorified lynocombina, where thousands of workers worked. From what I've said, with a view to minimizing the negative effects, the stability of the situation in light industry enterprises has been required by some communists to protect a domestic producer, to limit the imports into Ukraine of light industry products, to a low-cost economy that increases volumes at a time every year. At the state level, in order to protect our own market, we need to significantly increase import duties on these goods, as well as restrict imports of clothing and products imported from abroad by charities. Finally, the time has come to have a national programme for the recovery and development of the light industry -- and this has been repeatedly highlighted by the communists -- which will decide the most painful sectors, namely: to produce postage mechanisms for the payment of VAT on equipment that is not produced in Ukraine and imported from abroad; to implement a set of measures to prevent the reduction of customs costs in the import of finished products; to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code to refer to the income tax base from the implementation of goods that have been used such as the second-hand; to develop a legal level for the involvement of potential foreign investors in the development of light industry enterprises. It's worth looking at the consumer basket and the wages, because there's the lowest wage here, and it's 1 thousand and 800 dollars. The company believes that the light industry needs to be revived, placed on its feet, but not on the basis of tax evasion, business destruction, and exploitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u169	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Topalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u171	Victor Hubbar, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, more than ever, the issue of the threat to the sovereignty and independence of the country, its democracy and the stability and personal security of our citizens. In recent times there has been an increase in violence and violence by radical political forces. Those who call themselves nationalists are trying to bring imbalances, instability and divisions into our society by various means and methods, trying to divide Ukrainian citizens according to national, ethnic and religious grounds. This is confirmed by recent events. Consider the recent events in the Kiev City Council, the May 18 events, the slaughter of veterans of the Great Homeland War in the Lviv and Ternopil areas, the slaughter of guards in the Supreme Council, the organization of riots in Ahtirka and others. Unfortunately, I have to say, this aggression and violence are beginning and coming out of this room. The cases of vandalism, the plundering of the monuments of our history, have become systematic. In particular, monuments to the heroes of the Great Homeland War and the monuments of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin. Recently. It was on the night of May 19, that unknown persons from firearms were damaged by the monument of Vladimir Ilchi Lenin in the village of Lemes of the Kozeletsky district of Chernigiv district, which had recently been repaired for donations by members of the Communist Party of Ukraine and those who care about our history of residents of the region. I want to turn to the voters who voted in the past parliamentary elections for radical nationalist forces. Are you sure that those who are shooting at monuments today will not shoot you, your family and loved ones, your children tomorrow? Worried about the lack of membership. proper response and inaction on this issue of law enforcement. On repeated calls from representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine, veteran organizations? None of the crimes were solved, the perpetrators were found, and no one was responsible. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine demands that security authorities put an end to it. Involuntary actions by nationalists. Therefore, please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine Victor Pshonka, prosecutor of the Chernigiv region of Maksim Speech to take under personal control the investigation of the events that took place in the village of Lemesh Kozeletsky district and similar events in the district center of Talalayevka, Montenegro. Find the guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u172	Deputies! I want to speak to you, Igor Miroshnichenko. You're an experienced man, you have experience. Well, please, let's respect each other! He's speaking in national language, come on, let's have some respect! Everyone has an opinion. Replica, I said I wouldn't give you a line. Please. Well, please, let's respect each other. Well, every deputy has, well, whatever opinion he wants, let him tell it here. And you're going to perform, you're going to be critical. Please. I'm asking Mr. Yavorowski. He's in place of Lukyanchuk. Well, let's be respectful. Let's not scream, let's hear each other. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u173	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear voters! I went up to this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u174	Come on, come on,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u175	I can say with a calm conscience from this rostrum that in 24 years of my parliamentary and political activity, my capital is my name. I'm guarding him, and I'm gonna do whatever it takes to make sure that no one can do it, I can't do it. Why am I talking about this, perhaps for the first time speaking on this subject? Because recently, one of my résumés from the Communist Party spoke such nonsense about me. Because of this, it is very easy to correct. First. They were talking about, or they were always complaining to me, by the way, that I was a member of the Communist Party. I want to make a statement. Adam Ivanovich! I've never been a member of your party! I was a member of the party of Olesia Potter, Paul Greebly, Boris Oliynik, and other decent people who recommended me. And I was only four years old. And he placed a party ticket immediately, becoming the deputy of the Soviet Union, chosen from the city of Kiev. This question was clarified. The second question you're talking about. Adam Ivanovich, as editor of the Tovarish newspaper, she was a Communist at the time, writing a fake saying that Paulicko, Durres and Yavorowski were talking to Andropov and so on. You know, I handed you over to the court, gave a witness to Marchuk, who was then in charge of the Security Service, that there was no such letter in nature. That's what everyone's been absolutely saying today. I brought you to trial and won the trial. And you paid, I don't remember, like, a million coupons to pay, at least. I transferred them to the nursery. And the last. By association of writers. Well, stop lying. For 10 years I led the National Association of Writers, poor, poor. I've been in opposition all along. Balogah, sorry he's not here, he'd confirm. He was in charge, the D.A. was dumped on the Writer's Association, and nothing was found. A total of five or six were checked by all prosecutors who were just there. Then I wrote an open letter to Yushchenk to give him the President's authority. You know that. And I was again attacked by the DA's office of all levels. Nowhere, they didn't find anything. So stop just-just-just lying. Let's discuss, let's prove ourselves right or wrong there, but let's not lie or bring dirt into this room. I am convinced that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u176	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u177	Bondarenko, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u178	Sass, who do you give the floor to? Please turn on the microphone, Sas. Because I'm going to be guilty again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u179	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Fatherland. I give the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u180	Please. Two regulations. Sass is handing over, and he's seventh. Please, six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u181	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland. I'd like to raise two questions today. I've just been to 198 schools in Borsztagowka called the ECO. You know, I'm back in this room covered. I saw a thousand four hundred children there with their eyes brightened. These are talented children, and in just one year, this school has received from first to third place in the All-U.S. Erudite Race of various sciences over 1,200 places. You know what happens when a girl comes out first in Ukraine in mathematics, in Ukrainian, in foreign language, in geography, and so on, you become a completely different person, you feel the land that gave birth to you, the earth that carries you. But why is this land so unfriendly today? Why have many people who have been raised here grown up to travel abroad? That was still the case, unfortunately. The king went and created in Moscow, when he was born in Zitomir, and grew up in Ninja and Odessa. Yes, Sikorski Igor, born in the center of Kiev, made the best models of airplanes and helicopters worldwide, leaving thousands of other Ukrainians. And today, unfortunately, they're leaving. And nothing changes, because today's authorities don't provide for normal conditions for these talents to be used here. Our children are being hunted by various funds, Sorosa and so forth, and they're tracking children from school Olympics and trying to take them away, giving them small grants, labs, sometimes even serious help, and creating for talented people, but they're not staying in Ukraine. So I'd like to go to the hall, regardless of any political views that a person has, we all live on this earth. And I would like to live on an earth that is extremely productive in terms of intelligence. The IQ of the Ukrainian people, and it's made up of people of different nationalities, is extremely high. That's why all the Russian pops that revolves around Cobzon, born in Ukraine, around Gurchenko, born in Ukraine, revolved around Lanov, who came from Ukraine, and many others. They only serve them. But these people, unfortunately, are not in Ukraine, but they are forced to abandon borders. There's a lot of people like that. I once wrote a law on foreigners of Ukrainian origin and concluded that, unfortunately, we are less than abroad in Ukraine. Today, the people of Ukraine are made up of different nationalities, but they are losing more and more. Because the authorities today did not create conditions for teachers. When I looked at these talented people, and today the minister called the number for the starting teacher something like that about one thousand 400 bracelets a payroom, the question is, How can you live for that kind of money? When you look at the fact that these people don't have any other income, they actually serve the state, they can't fake anything. So the question is, how do they survive? And one more question I'd like to raise today. It may be in sharp contrast with what we are talking about. But let's stop talking about fascism. This yammering is the way it is spoken in English. You don't have to do this. Think of our shared story with you. And let's think about how we're going to make an all-U.S. information company about the great Jubilee, I'd say. The following year, August 23-24, we will be, I don't know how to say this, not celebrate, of course, but to know that these days, the Stalinic, Fascist regime and Hitler's fascist regime agreed on how to divide Europe. And they had negotiations that were effective. They rejected the Europeans from these negotiations. We agreed on how to divide Poland, Bessarabia, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and other countries. The so-called Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed, and within a month, 221 numbers held a victory parade in Brest at the time, that is, in Brest-Litovsky or Brest today. So there were Communists and real fascists with their flags: red with Lenin and another with swastika. They went as friends. Are you forgetting that fact? Who are you yelling at, fascists? What are you saying? Do not turn Ukraine into a fascist state today. Ukraine is a peaceful state. Sadly, she has always tolerated bastards who have offended her in this way. Don't forget. We will prove, no matter what you take into your hands, all the archives that you destroy and destroy. I want my grandchildren and children to know that your Communist scum sent my grandparents to Siberia, the Far East. I mean, you're the ones who did this. And today, do not hide for our history, but go forth and kneel before the people of Ukraine, bow down with your red forehead against her land that bore you and carries you, and fight with this forehead until your brains are cleansed of this filth. You are now enemies of Ukraine and you are taking this position. Forget about what you're given the right to call someone a fascist. You're protecting the Fascist regime of Stalin, the fascist regime of Hitler, and you're still shouting: someone's hat is on fire. She's on fire, hat. Therefore forget, I say again, to gloat at the Ukrainians, who are today the protectors of this land, the patriots of the earth. Praise the heroes of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to speak again, but don't insult each other. The Freedom Union, I think, is going to show you the Schweik example.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable colleagues and respected Ukrainian voters, respected Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainians, and representatives of all the nationalities that live in our country. At this time, I am saddened to hear from this rostrum the rest of those unexploited things, because in fact in Ukraine there are a huge number of issues that require our intervention. The questions of modern history, not of mythical history, but of our present. In particular, a week ago, and it was no secret to anyone that the members of the Party of Regions that work in the district administrations on a working day, using administrative resources, firstly, organized themselves in their working hours, at the 13th, 15th, 16th-hour rally, so-called anti-fascist. That's probably why their allies were offended by the Communists, because they're obviously trying to embellish the subject. In particular, in the Luhansk district, a rally called anti-fascist was launched at 3 p.m. So far, it's 1:00. And the employees of the local government, and the employees of the Luhansk district administration. In Kharkiv, he is the deputy head of the Dulu District Administration. In the Luhansk region, this is also the head of the Luhansk District Council and the Lugansk City Head. Instead of dealing with local self - government issues, instead of writing empty reports about their empty national targets, they waved unexistent flags against some mythical fascism! Similarly, at this time both in Lugansk and in Kharkiv, and in every other city in Ukraine during their working hours were exiled, yes, those who had been banished and checked on the list were budget officials, students from secondary technical, higher education institutions! Including high school students who received the last call in high school today! These are people today who are 15, 16, 17 years of age! Even they were exiled to fight Fascism. We have repeated references. And during this work week, which is spent working in the districts, if anyone doesn't know from the communists or the Communist Party of the Regions, I'll remind you that there's now a week of work in the districts. And everyone behind you is locked up behind the county. And when I come to the Lugansk region, I know that no one in any of the districts, no communists, no regionals, had a meeting! Next. We have today, yesterday, an issue that dealt with by the Communist Party of the Regions has been very successful. Since the Kharkiv factory called Shevchenka, which has been saving Dobkin and the company from bankruptcy for more than one year, he has managed with the immovable property that is forbidden for alienation to somehow lose technical documentation for the production of control systems for nuclear stations! That's their job today!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u184	Freedom Union, Farion, please. Those who desire so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u185	I give the word to Vitov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u186	Come on, People's Deputy Vitov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u187	Anatoly Vitov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Volin. Whoever hasn't seen Irina Pharion, look at the glasses. I'd like to talk about the situation that has now taken place with the Volin-Commerce company in Volin and not just with him, but with all the profitable businesses that are in the Crucifixion Corporation. At the moment, there are two of them: ".trade" and "Volin-trade" in Manevich's settlement three months ago, the most hungry family in Ukraine began a raiding of business data. If we've survived all of you in the turbulent '90s, remember the methods of gang activity at the time, then we've experienced the stages of the raid, when they took the enterprises now they've found a new methodology, they're changing the business management. So those two enterprises that are the most profitable in this corporation in these enterprises are holding the entire economy of the region. So the Manevicki district, which doesn't have gas, is their main place of budgeting the business is. They're taking down the director on a groundless basis because corporate management is extremely effective if the company has paid 40 million taxes in recent years, more than 7.5 million says it's effective. They change the management of a person’s business and they put him in charge, regrettably that there are no ministers involved in baking the bells, and now they let him run the business. The same with ".trade" is now releasing all the people who were and represented the old management. People in Manievich came out, blocked the road, and fought for their business. They made a sly move to leave the old director of the executive responsibility, that is, to carry out the responsibilities of the signing work. He gets his signature every day. So all the hoodlums from a large and poor family are interested in profitable businesses; they don't take on nonprofit enterprises that can raise and invest money; they take on the most profitable. And we have to realize, if you don't give it to God, the company will stop, the whole Maneweck region will run out of heat: schools, gardens, private houses, people will be out of jobs. This is the policy of improving our government. And our job is to stop the bandits from cutting up the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u188	The Fatherland faction, the people's deputy of the village. I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u189	Yes, there is! Basil Wooden, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Schlemku Dmitr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u191	Dmitry Schlemko, Fatherland. Dear compatriots, in political discussions, especially the rating talk show, are often used as the argument of the Party of Regions thesis that Donbass feeds Galicina. Is it true? Are the Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankivsky, Ternopil regions really just consumers of Donetsk, Lugansk economic donors? According to an analysis of the income and expenditure of these regions, not everything that politicians say is true. In order to answer the question of who feeds whom in Ukraine, it is necessary to determine basically two positions: how much does an area or region spend on government spending, and how much does it get back? This balance sheet is at least a simple but fairly accurate comparative feature of the situation. Figures: Galicia contributed 8.4 billion dollars to the state treasury in 2012, in exchange for subsidies. I got 7.9 billion. From Donbas, in the same year, over 21 billion dollars were added to the State budget — 2.5 times more than in three Galician areas — but from the State execution of Donetsk and Lugansk region in 2012, subsidies, subsidies, subsidies, transfers of the Pension Fund, budget funding for the coal sector received as much as 48.6 billion, or six times more than three areas of Galicina. If most areas of Ukraine receive transfers calculated in accordance with the Budget Code, i.e. depending on population size, by number of students, and so on, Donetskina is the leader of the targeted funds allocated to specific jobs and services, often this is linked to the existence of corruption interest when budget allocations are allocated to the region on the basis of the State Budget Act rather than the State Budget Act. A recent budget committee of the Supreme Council has redistributed 1.7 billion dollars for the areas. You don't have to guess who it was or how much it was. Ivano-Franco was given 11.7 million dollars, Donačina was 160 million, 14 times as much as ever. At the same time, the wealthy Donetsk region is an outsider of VAT payments to the budget. The reason is simple: full compensation for the export VAT to the Donetsk companies, so in 2012 15.9 billion VAT dollars were collected in Donbass, and 14.3 billion in damages. For Galician businesses, VAT is collected in full and only partially returned. Even worse is the situation in Donbas with pension insurance in order for the Donetsk region to feed local pensioners, each working young man has to pay the Pension Fund a thousand and 37 dollars a month, and in fact, these accounts for only 645 dollars per employee. Hence, 392 bracelets are added from the central budget for the maintenance of each daughter’s pensioner to one employee or 13.8 billion dollars are transferred to the Donbas Pension Fund. The conclusion is: Donbas does not feed Galicina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u192	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national MP of Borita.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u193	Olga Borita. Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u194	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I have before me two brilliant representatives of those whom the world-renowned poet writer Olijnik called "commutants." One of them headed the ideological department of the Leningrad Paradise Party in Kiev, headed for the party, now licks the backseat to forget what the Communists are. And the other sang the party, covering the great holy names of those writers that we truly honor. It's a shame the Oilman was mentioned here. And it's a shame that the speaker is brilliant, as he thinks, that the writer has gone and doesn't hear what I have to say to him, but, more faithfully, I say with words of authority, but I think people will find it interesting. I'll read the stamina from the letter of famous Stus to his wife and son that he wrote. Stus, June 12, 1989 Here's the content of the letter: "At last it got the first number of Kiev (No 5). Read the Heritage. It's like a story about Bilocur, or a folk artist. I don't think Yavorowski would write it like that. I didn't read his novel, but I know his strength. It's too empty for prosaics, because it's all extracurricular, it's all visible, it's all human, it's all human, it's nothing." You see how far Stus saw it back then. Camp notebook (record number seven since 1989 on page 218) Stus writes, "The Cult of the Free Maple, Their Time, Their Age." These are not my words, I repeat, those are the words of the dissident writer that you honor and you're placing on the rank of a hero. Now for the trial. I'll read the document, which. is the signature of Yavorowski, Pavlicka and Durres. March 22, 1973. "Freedom," listen, I read in the original language: "President of the KGB of the USSR Andropov, First Secretary of the Government of the Union of Writers of the USSR Markov. Dear Yuri Vladimirović, we, the Ukrainian Soviet writers, strongly condemn the actions of the so-called writers of Light, Stus, Sverstuk, Karavanski, the brothers of Gorin and Moroz, Chernobyl, Osadczego, Mathematics, Pluto, Nekrasov and others who have become engrossed in the nationalist swamp and have not repented of their anti-Soviet activities.” Here are the signatures. I lost the court in 1992, in the middle of what was being done, could Yavorowski win the court at that time? Of course not. Here's who's Yavorowski. And so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u196	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. The People's Deputies of the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Vladimir the Poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u198	Pass it on, please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The coal sector of Ukraine is on the verge of a major crisis. In the past 15 years, the number of coal deposits and mines has been record: about 7 million tons. It's not just an unsold product, it's millions of dollars of unpaid wages and contributions to the Pension Fund, a social insurance fund. This problem prevents the planning of coal purchases at the country's heat stations and threatens the timeliness of calculations for consumption, which could lead to significant losses in coal enterprises, the closure of mines, the loss of tens of thousands of jobs and social destabilisation in the coal regions. This is also a threat to environmental and technological disaster due to coal combustion. Much can be said of the decline in industrial production, the increase in coal production exceeding the increase in electricity consumption and so on. But let's face it. The problem is not that coal miners have acquired a lot of coal by burying their health, but that there is a shadow market for coal. No more government and law enforcement agencies are just closing their eyes on the problem of illegal coal from the trenches that all Donbass sees. If that is not the case, they must be publicly recognized as unable to resolve the issue and protect public interests. According to various coal data, about 6 to 7 million tons per year are extracted from so-called holes. In doing so, public mines are also being used to implement it, resulting in illegal coal being added to the government and money being removed from the criminal's pockets. Think about it. Last year, about 5 million tons of this coal fell on the TEC, and the TEC and another 900,000 tons were exported. Moreover, Ukraine and its coal reserves import coal from abroad: Poland, Kazakhstan and even the United States. All of this has resulted from the lack of a truly effective coal development programme, an appropriate public approach. Instead, we hear that coal is not as good as coal, but mines are lost. But we have never seen in these years the independence of concrete actions to modernize coal mines, enrichment plants. Since the 1990s, however, the capital card has been closed to prospective mines, coal enterprises to collapse, and their subsequent buy-out by oligarchs. A paradox, but a country sitting on black gold cannot find its application. And this is at high prices for oil, gasoline and natural gas. Another 90 years ago, there were technologies that allowed coal to extract synthetic gasoline. Such factories work in Germany and even in South Africa today, 30 per cent of gasoline is synthetic. Today, China is reducing exports and increasing coal imports. The Communist faction requires the Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the shadow mining of coal and the realization of shadow coal, and to begin to realign the coal industry as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u200	The company of Ukraine, Zubczewski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u201	Please pass the word to Olga Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u202	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u203	Thank you. Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, voters! The deputies of the City Council of Scadovians of the Hersonian Region are asking us, the Ukrainian national deputies, to protect property rights to the land of the district community of the town of Skadovska. Since 2001, by protecting the right of citizens of the city to participate in the election of city council deputies and city heads to develop the right to establish housing documents and land under them, protecting the right to finance the development of the city's engineering and social infrastructure, the MPs have sought to speed up the development of a project with a land structure and the establishment of new borders of the city of Skadowska. As early as 2001, 188,000 dollars were allocated from the government budget and 100,000 dollars later from the city budget. But the urban community never got the land project on borders and land inventory. For almost two years, the project was agreed upon in the district and district divisions of the State Commission, architecture and city buildings, district offices, Dergsanepidem services, the Environmental Protection Authority, and the Historical and Cultural Monuments and Inspections. All of these institutions have given positive conclusions, the project has been agreed on by the permanent commissions of the Herson District Council, but the Presidium of the Archdiocese is unwarrantedly directing it to the same structures, thus delaying and delaying its deployment to the Supreme Council for approval. The management of the area uses this situation for the illegal free allocation of hundreds of hectares of recreational land assigned by valid legislation to natural areas declared by the resort of national importance, which according to the City Master Plan were planned for the construction of health facilities, and are now transferred to individual agriculture and to the specific construction of people who do not have any bearing on the Skadovian and urban communities. Members of the Skadovska and the City Council ask: to create a temporary investigation commission to investigate land abuse and to hold officials accountable for the findings that conflict with the State Act for the continued use of land and the city’s general plan. Please consider this statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u204	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The week that passes has been much under the spell of fighting the threat of neofascism. And that's natural, because people, Ukrainians, even at the genetic level, have indeed experienced the threat of fascism. Recently, from this parliamentary rostrum, one of the fuhrers of the so-called opposition, turning to the hall, asked, "Where is fascism? What Fascism? Where did you see him?" Apparently, Communists, like most of the veterans of this golden generation of the country, perceive the threat of fascism differently than those of the opposition. Apparently, to Mr. Arsenius, Fascism is recognized only when concentration camps appear in Ukraine, when the country sinks into vast numbers of hangovers when fires of books are lit on the surfaces and streets. But then it will be too late to fight fascism. As another correct German put it, "When the fascists came after me, there was no one to protest." As a Communist MP, as head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, I would like to express a veteran perception of the threat of fascism. The number one sign for a generation of victory veterans on the threat of fascism is that in frontal veterans, the liberators of humanity from fascist slavery are trying to steal the main cause of life -- a great victory over fascism. And the decision of the District Councils of the Western Region to ban the celebration, I emphasize, of the State Victory Day is not Fascism? And the inability of war veterans to put flowers on this holiday day on the level of their brothers who paid the highest price for winning a victory — their very lives — is that not fascism? And the false, distorted teaching of the country's history and its most heroic page -- the Great Homeland War in educational institutions -- is that not Fascism? I'll say more, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe warned last December about the impact faction and the "Fatherland" of cooperation with the so-called "Freedom" resolution. And the most deaf-blind of our opponents, I want to say. Not only did Europe recognize the manifestations of fascism in Ukraine but it has already punished it. What do I mean? Here's the thing. The European Union of Football Associations punished the Dynamo Kyiv football club with one Europukka without having to watch. For what? In fact, during one of the football matches, Fascist symbolism was present on the rostrum. So I want to stress once again -- fascism, it's no longer a threat, it's a harsh reality of the country. Fascism is already slamming at the door of only Ukraine and every family in Ukraine. Let us stand up to the lions of the active fighters against fascism; let us be vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u206	My lady, the national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u207	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian society to the events that are taking place around the election of Mayor Vasilkov. These elections were scheduled by the Supreme Council for June 2, the current year. But in fact, there are elections today without an election. Because the power in the person of the Governor of Kiev of the Jury, the central authority that supports and covers the Jury actually falsifies these elections, and it can now be argued that these elections are not legitimate and this is the polygon where today's authorities are working their most dirty technologies to falsify the elections that they will then use in the presidential elections in 2015. In particular, in order not to allow a candidate from the Radical Party to register a candidate in Vasilkov, they refused to register a city organization of the Radical Party. The executives of this criminal order are the Chief of Justice of Borkovsky Svetlana and the Head of Registration Services of the Leonides. Ukrainian names appear to be working in an anti - Ukrainian way, supporting criminal authority by executing its criminal orders. And today's top favorite is being promoted, this is the head of the administration, the Vassilova candidate, Vladimir Sabadasz, who is a relative of the governor of the Kyiv region of Jury, and that's how they take their family to various positions by forging elections. The Governor of Jury, instead of forging his relatives to run for mayor of Vasilkov, would have figured out why the shareholder of Pat "Obukhivsk" in the Obukhivsk region owned 39 percent of the shares, and mostly the elderly, who are far over 80 years old, why don't they pay dividends over the last three years? While Pat Obukhivski is a profitable society, 20 million dollars of net profit were paid last year. And these miserable people who have worked their whole lives in a council that is not being paid dividends by Pat today. Why? Because the Governor of Jury is violating a man who holds 61 percent of the shares -- this is Yuri Bondarczuk, who represents the interests of the offshore company. In other words, they hide theirs, and for older people, dividends are not paid, and they are sentenced to a destitute old life. And so I'm taking this opportunity to contact the President of Ukraine, and I'm asking the Attorney General to take steps to pay off the dividends to the owners of Pat "Obuchivsky". And I urge that the elections in Vasilkov be declared invalid, because they are today with falsified power in favor of the candidate from the power of Sabodash. Shame on you, such authority! Get out, Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u208	People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions, gives his word to the national deputy Ponomarov Andrija Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u209	. Ponomariov Andri, Party of Regions, Donetskin I said hello to the Ukrainian because now I'm going to talk to you about the great daughter of the Greek people about Pasha Angelina. The Ukrainian land is generally famous for its great history and culture, for its outstanding and talented people well - known beyond our Fatherland. Everyone must know the names of the heroes of his day, Mikita Izotov, Alexia Stahanov, and Pasha Angelina. The year 2013 marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of two socialist heroes, the organizer of the stohani movement in the rural farm of Paraskeva Mikitovna Angelina. Paradisaic Mikitovna was born on January 12, 1913, in the small Greek village of Starobshevo, in Donetsk. During his 47 years of life, Pasha Angelina became a legend. In 1933 she organized the first female brigade in the country to initiate the stohani farming movement. One of the great credits of Pasha Angelina was her call "100,000 friends per tractor!"which was responded to by some 20,000 women all over Ukraine. And when thousands of men moved from tractors to tanks in times of war, they took their place in the famous women's brigades from the 1930s to the 1940s. The years of the Pasha Angelina war with her brigade worked quite successfully on the lands of Kazakhstan. For the first time in Kazakhstan, Pasha Angelina’s initiative used osmia wheat. When the gas front needed a deficit, the brigade’s tractors used kerosene and used gasoline to make them. The efficient use of technology, an agronomical approach, and the day - to - day work of tractors enabled the harvest to be collected for Kazakhstan in 1942. "The Battle for the Harvest" called Pasha Angelina's work as a wartime brigade in one of her performances, comparing the peasant's work with the work of a soldier on the front. Pasha Angelina, 24, became a member of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union and was reelected for the rest of her life. Pasha Angelina's work was twice the title of the Socialist Hero – in 1947 and 1958, she won the State Prize of the Soviet Union. I'm done. I would like to point out that one of the great credits given to Pasha Angelina was her replacement for the Greeks of Priaby from the beginning of the repression and evictions in the postwar years. To this day, tens of thousands of Greeks have been grateful to her. I consider it appropriate to make every effort to perpetuate the memory of an outstanding historical figure, which will allow a state level to mark the centuries since the birth of Pasha Angelina. I'd like to support your ruling of 2775.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u210	The People's Deputy Bublik, Freedom faction, is invited to speak. Prepare the people's deputy Dubnevich. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u211	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that, as always, to the people who have been building the garbage of lice ideologies back in the minds of Ukrainians, they are guided by the principle of their leader Ulyanova-Lenina-Blanka: five percent of the truth, and the rest of them can be lied to, hang noodles on their ears and talk about the ghosts of fascism. Well, boys, if you think you're ghosts of fascism, you should get baptized. That you are antichrists, we know that very well. And when it comes to Kyivrada, where the door seems to have been knocked out, you have never been there or gone, for you have not been chosen or supported by the Chinese. No one was knocking on the door. And if you're antichrists, I'll remind you of Ahtirka, where you built a monument to the one who destroyed millions of Ukrainians on the land of the church, which you blew up in the 1930s and where you committed a crime today: under cover of night illegally establishing a ghost that was called Lenin's, and in fact, all Otyrians call it no different than Darth Vader, because Lenin is not like him. And today a criminal case has been committed against those bandits who place monuments, so - called Lenin, and, in fact, Darth Vader on a land that does not belong to you but belongs to the religious community of the city of Ahtirka, the patriarch of Kyiv. The next question is about faith, traditional family values, Christian morality, and social morality. Dear society, I think, here in this room, despite the fact that there are few people here, together with all the Ukrainians we share. We share in the fact that Ukraine is ahead of all Europe today. We have a healthy society with a strong immunity against the propaganda of perversions imposed on us by the European Union today, which in the form of Bill 2342, invites us to accept the Cabinet of Ministers. I am the author of the alternative bill 2341. And I'll tell you what the risks are in the bill that offers us to accept the Cabinet of Ministers in order to get the grandies and put a new branch on that they're moving to the European Union. It is not possible to legitimize the notion of "sexual minorities" by listing those issues that today are prohibited in terms of discrimination, because this bill draws us closer to homodicate when one hundred percent of perverts and sick people dictate their values to a perfectly healthy Ukrainian society and violate our rights. Tomorrow there's going to be a so-called gay parade that's been banned by the court, but the perverts are still trying to impose their values on us. So I urge all Ukrainians to come to the Golden Gates at 1:00 in embroidery with their families, with their children, with their wives -- and to show that Ukraine is a healthy country. It's a country of traditional family values and Christian social morality. And then the stock will continue on the Podoli. And don’t let any pervert even think about going out and telling you that he’s normal! Because if they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u212	We're done. People's Deputy Dubnevich, strike faction. Prepare the National MP, Hanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u213	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Jaroslav Dubnevich, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. In my speech, I want to put an end to the problem, which today, I am convinced, affects all the local communities, not just my native Lviv. This is a situation involving massive delays in payments made by the authorities of the State Treasury Office in Ukraine. Usually, in recent years, the problem of having registered payment orders arose in November-December months. Then each city, village, and village heads stood in line with their cashier and requested that payments be made for the most necessary things for local communities: to pay for repairs to roads, schools, hospitals. By 2012, things had changed for the worse. For the first time, problems with treasury services began early in September. As a result of the unthinkable fiscal and pension policy, the state has gone into the pockets of every community without its consent, making use of the funds and the already scarce local budgets. The result is that, as of the end of the mid - spring of 2013, only half of the treasury debt in Lviv has been repaid since 2012. Yet, this year’s 2013 situation is even worse. Since the beginning of the year, Treasury authorities have been blocking any payments except protected articles. And when it comes to paying wages, budget workers find themselves at a disadvantage. In particular, employees of utilities receive salaries with delays, since the costs of the utilities are not protected. Everything is in the arsenal: from multiple returns under the premeditated reasons for each payment to total ignoring the execution of payment orders even beyond the 30-day deadline foreseen by legislation. As a result, even official statistics in Lviv are impressive. The local treasury office, as of May 1, 2013, recognizes the delay in payments of 70 million dollars of local budgets. And how many more payment orders are actually not even registered under the intended pretexts can only be guessed. We recently heard from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of a representative of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. He said that one day in a single treasury account, there was still -- think about it -- as much as 800,000 dollars. Personally, I wish it were a mistake. I am convinced that we need to reform the system and principles on which the State Treasury Service of Ukraine is working, which is putting all local communities on their knees by blocking payments. Today, a lot of talk is about administrative and territorial reform. So the first step of this reform, I think, is to allow local councils to choose their own banks for their own expenses. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u214	Thank you. People's MP Hanenko, Freedom faction. Get ready, Opanaschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u215	Celestial Hanenko. I give the word to Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u216	Igor Sabiy. People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u217	Honorable Predestination! Dear Ukrainian people! Deputies! Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 Krasilivsk electoral district, Hmeljničina. In its time it was said that roads are the blood vessels of any state. For the third year in a row, we've been watching the Yanukovic regime cut through the veins of the Ukrainian state and pull out of the body of the Ukrainian state. It all began in the early 2007 ’ s when in the last days of his premiere, Janukovic handed over a large portion of cars, freight cars, to private companies. Now this situation continues. Here comes the creeping privatisation of the Ukrainian railway. Almost all wagons are handed over to private hands. Now there's a total train disengagement. In particular, he did not become an exception to the hops. The Shepetovka-Ivano-Frankivsky train was cancelled, which provided a connection between the north of the Hmelnit region, Ivano-Frankivsky and Ternopilsky. In fact, it was the only way that people could get to school, work, or go to their relatives, or be treated. In fact, Janukovitch’s regime has led people to sit quietly in their cities and villages, not to go anywhere, not to communicate with anyone, but to die quietly there. Sadly, the roadblock did not pass. Over the course of three years, we see a constant lie that money is getting more and more, but, unfortunately, the roads are getting worse. Obviously, if we're going to have to have normal roads, we're going to need two things. First of all, stop stealing. Secondly, to set up subcontractors who run capital and current road repairs to guarantee their jobs. Because we have huge expenses each year, and in the second year the same road has to be repaired again. In our opinion, the guarantee should be at least 5 years for the capital repair of roads and at least 10 years for the construction of new roads. And to ensure that subcontractors, if the road had been damaged earlier, would have been repaired. And most of all. Of course, this is the distribution of the cost of repairing the roads that the government is currently running. I'm not going to analyze why this happened. But in fact, despite the fact that Hmelnica is one of the largest transport, transit areas. There are two transport corridors, in fact there are no roads. At the same time, only 165 thousand dollars per kilometer are allocated for repairing these roads. While the Donetsk region has a million 868 thousand per kilometer, the Dnipropetrovsk region has a million 272,000 per kilometer. We find this unacceptable and are convinced that the government must share money for repairing roads in proportion to all areas of Ukraine. Otherwise we're going to have a collapse in the life of our country. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u218	Opanaschenko National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the People's Deputy for Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u219	Deputy Opanaschenko, Kakhovščina, 185 constituency. First of all, I'd like to speak to the chairman and to the honourable national deputies about the events that have taken place. Sometimes it comes out, say, boy and critic, and insults those people, the national MPs who sit in the hall and have a lot of experience behind them. Which of the workers made their way to the manager of a large business or mine or a metal factory. And it is very sad to hear an MP come out, and there are various images gurgling out of his mouth. I'm asking you to stop this practice. And those MPs who express insults, leave their words and turn off the microphone and react in accordance with the Rules. This is the right of the presiding officer. And even keep your words for the rest of Sunday before the performances. You cannot tolerate images that are heard personally or in general by deputies. And we're wasting the time that voters gave us. Who gave us the voters to discuss the projects in detail. And now, in fact, it's a matter of fact. We have a situation in the village where in every village of 1,000 people working only 80 are officially employed. And these are the budget workers. So everyone else works, but they work in the shadows. The main part of the city budget, the local budget of the rural council, the district and district council is the arrival of the salaries of officially employed workers. So we have zero local budgets. And the workers work somewhere, they don't know where, they get paid in an envelope. I suggest what I do to make the earth do social work, as it did before, to provide workers with jobs. Introduce regulations on land use by enterprises, from 20 to 25 hectares to create one job. This will give employment to nearly 50 percent of the rural population. This will give about 70 to 100,000 dollars to the local budgets of the villages, so much money to the local budgets of the districts, and twice as much to the local budgets of the district councils. Here's all the money the village can grow for. We'll give young people a guaranteed workplace. We're going to do what the earth is going to do with the official social function. And the village head will not run like a beggar and ask farmers 1 percent for development, but will control official employment. We have to step up to our peasants, otherwise the villages will be destroyed, and so every year the population of the rural area is reduced. We have our own Ukrainian tradition of saving the village. As a result, farmers need to be treated with a comprehensive approach to agriculture. Not just using the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u220	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The time for your speech is over. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction. Get ready, Rosenko. The word is passed on to the national deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u221	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. I would like to focus your attention on the danger of this bill, which, unfortunately, has already been voted in the first reading on, as it were, the bank's exit to the Bank's Banking, a bill that deals with promissory notes. Respectable society, the introduction of promissory notes into our economy -- it's practically going to be a disaster for the Ukrainian financial system. We did that in the early '90s, where the vegetative system was actively developing, which led to hyperinflation and economic decline. I'm practically gonna blow it up. Today, unfortunately, the Criminal Party of the Regions is trying to reintroduce this scheme. What is its purpose? What is a promissory note? This is a debt, that is, this paper, a letter to which the State owes its banking structures to the service providers and the goods they provide. This is, as it were, this leaf or this fig leaf that the Party of Regions today wants to cover its irresponsibility with this big hole in the budget and in the economy that they brought to our country today. So understanding that this criminal, this criminal law that they want to introduce about promissory notes that will virtually destroy our financial system, the financial market, the stock market, and the stock market, and it can actually destroy the Ukrainian economy. What is the greatest danger? Do we understand who gets those bills? Today, the debt for VAT in Ukraine is about 50 billion dollars, how will they return? We understand that it is, it's a corrupt scheme that will appear to the close-minded, as it were, outside the billboard. It's up to 50 percent order. So the size of the theft in the state is going to be about 25 billion dollars. That's a huge amount for our budget. And it's practically going to cause unique losses to the Ukrainian economy. That's why we need to understand that the introduction of the bills, that's what we've already registered on April 26th about the gas transport system, which also aims to expand our gas transport system into several branches. Only debts will be left to the State, and the gas transport system and gas depots will pass away to the oligarchs and our neighbor, the Russian Federation. And this is also going to be an absolute disaster for the Ukrainian economy. Well, of course it's lost Ukrainian independence. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom strongly condemns this criminal bill that is now registered and intended to be passed. It's a bill on bills and a gas transport system that can destroy the economy and destroy the independence and sovereignty of our Ukrainian state. So we are firm against this, we are not going to let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u222	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's deputy Rosenko, Faction "A" Vitaly Klitschka, prepare for the National Deputy Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Alexander Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u224	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, a venerable presidency. What I'd like to stop at right now. Our faction, the Vitalia Klicka faction, advocates the introduction of Ukrainian legislation on rallying and demonstrations to European standards. Ukraine needs new democratic norms that will protect the freedom of peaceful meetings from the system of law enforcement, standards that will protect the rights of organizers and meeting participants, not the authority of the people. We will not give the dictatorship a chance to stifle freedom in our sticky embraces. We will ensure the full and unconditional exercise in Ukraine guaranteed by each Constitution of the right to meet peacefully without weapons and to hold assemblies, rallies, marches and demonstrations. Personally, I would like to stop at the events that took place on May 18. First of all, I would like to thank the journalists who have done their job productively, which, let's say, today is one of the leading institutions of democracy in our country. Today, journalists are still highlighting the truth that is happening in our country. The institution of democracy still has Parliament and opposition forces, including our political power, and our faction, Vitalia Klicka. I would also like to refer to the athletes who today have been turned by a party of authorities into their fighters. Guys, don't embarrass yourself! If you want to show your strength, if you want to show your fighting skills, please go to the gym, train, and show it to your colleagues. In sparring partners, not on girls, journalists. I was also surprised by the position of the Communist Party of Ukraine, which in fact did not vote in favour of the establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission to investigate the beating of journalists and to investigate those facts of pressure on journalists. There was also a shameful event at the government meeting when journalists were shown behind the door. So what's going on in the state today is what's not supposed to happen. Freedom of speech is being destroyed today. Today, democracy is being destroyed by valid authority and their manuals. So I'd like to talk to my colleagues again. I'd like to thank my colleagues for the opposition factions, my colleagues from Freedom Party, my colleagues from Fatherland and our colleagues from Impact, who voted for the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission. And I want to say that the militia that covered up the bandits and the bandits who created this mess will answer to the Ukrainian people. But they will answer after the Interim Investigation Commission proves that these facts were shameful and they were covered up directly by authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u225	The last speaker. The Ponmarov People's Deputy gives his word to the Momot People's Deputy, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u226	Dear Head! Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters, TV sets, and listeners! In the Supreme Council, I represent the interests of the 27 majorities in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, which is 160,000 people. I keep in touch with my constituents, conduct a personal reception, and hear the same questions. I am addressed in various languages, both in Russian and in Ukrainian. But they're asking about one thing and the other. They ask about the state of housing and utilities, the lighting of the streets, the state of the trees, and much more. I am sure that these questions arise not only in Dnipropetrovsk but in cities and towns throughout the country. People are primarily concerned about the quality of life. The deputy majors working in the districts will confirm that. I hear a lot of complaints about housing-communal tariffs. Most people are outraged by the lack of transparency and sometimes by unfair tariffs. A bright example is the tariff for the use of elevators in urban multistory. If anyone doesn't know, I'll remind them. In line with the order of tariff formation for maintenance services of buildings and buildings and trailers approved by Kabmin’s decree of 11 June 2011, the calculation unit is 1 square metre of property. So the tariff is based on the square of the apartment, not the number of residents in the apartment. More people live – the elevator is more used. That makes sense. Why do people pay from a square meter? The injustice of the tariff is indignant, people refuse to pay. And as an investigation, it's a terrible, neglected state of elevators that haven't been repaired for decades. With this attitude, those who have done so have refused to pay. It's a closed circuit. You can solve the problem by changing the tariff scheme. Turning to the numerous appeals made by the voters, I prepared a letter to the head of the government asking to consider making appropriate changes to the form of tariffs. And I'm also asking the Committee on LHC questions to support and review the principle of charging elevators from the point of view of common sense. The laws and changes adopted by the Supreme Council and other authorities should be based on the needs of the people. Just reasonable systemic actions will help us to strengthen and improve the legislative base. Understandable, clear and just laws guarantee that they will work. And the law that works improves people’s lives and encourages respect for authority. Thank you for your attention. (Front) [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-24-m0.u227	Have a seat, please. Dear National Deputies! It's time for performances in the "Victory" is over. Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, June 4, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
