ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u1	Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, please. [[16:02:38]] There were 349 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honorable deputies, announcements! In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the "University of the Fatherland Union" of 15 May 2013, reports on the dismissal from the duties of the deputy head of the "Fatherhood" faction of the Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich and the election of the deputy head of the deputy faction "Fathership" of the Ukrainian national deputy Avakov Arsena Borisovich. Yes, a draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the status and conditions of the Financial Markets Management Centre is under consideration. How will we consider this question? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[16:04:30]] For-149 Please, the rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking's subcommittee, Pinchuk Andri Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed a bill that provides for the actual simplification and acceleration of the implementation of key mechanisms for the activities of the Ukrainian Depository System, which are provided for in the Ukraine Depositary System Act last year. The named law that has already entered into force provides for the establishment of an accounting centre for the servicing of contracts in financial markets. Such services include the holding of an accounting centre for banking operations. Virtually all experts, including foreigners, have acknowledged that the domestic legislative field in which Ukrainian banks operate is one of the most adaptable to the fast-moving and often uneasy conditions in which Ukraine's financial system operates. That is why it is proposed to partially adapt the regulation of the clearing house’s activities to existing current banking legislation. So the accounting center is practically quasi-bank. Therefore, it is proposed that he be granted the legal status of a bank. Thus, the National Bank of Ukraine will have all the legal authority to control the centre and influence it. It should be emphasized that this bill was drafted and supported by the National Bank of Ukraine. At its April 4th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed the bill and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the position of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u3	The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat. Please sign up for discussion by factions. The Motherland Union, the faction, Andrew Shevchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Stepan Kubi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u5	Pass it on, please. Please hand over the Cuban. Turn on the Cuban microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Stepan of Cuba, the Fatherland faction. We're going to support this bill in the first reading because the National Bank, as a regulator, reinforces the control functions of the accounting center. Secondly, it minimizes the risks of payability and liquidity, i.e. the activities of the centre, because it is clearly stated that the National Bank of Ukraine takes part in the capital: 25 percent plus one share. And the third. The accounting center exists as a form of public stockholder society in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act. This increases control and minimizes risks today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u7	Party of regions, Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u8	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable national deputies, surely this law that we are considering today must support the Hall today in order to accept it as a basis, and in the process of discussion and consideration within the Committee, in the direction that it really serves the more effective functioning of financial markets in Ukraine. That's the first question. But I'm very confident once again from the rostrum here that the Supreme Council, together with the National Bank, is long overdue to review the attitude, the national attitude or the national attitude towards the banking system that operates in Ukraine. What makes my question critical to the situation that has taken place today in Ukraine? In no country in the world, and all the more in Europe, and the more that we ratify the treaty and the more that we have a market relationship, the more the attitude, the more that we have joined the Soviet laws, in no country in the world, you will not see a banking system that does not work for the economy in the country, but that destroys the economy in the country. Why am I asking that question? Because interest rates and the terms and conditions of getting credit from real-sector enterprises, these companies can't get money. What does that mean? You know, the banking system's short-term lending of the economy is in an overwhelming sense. That's the first question. The second question. Enterprises that get loans get mortgaged at least 200 percent. Not every business can do that. And the third question is that according to the amount of money that is in the real sector today, the real economy, we're not going to be able to modernise it. And accordingly, the economic potential of the country is declining every year, I think. So I'm sure the state can't stand outside. When we regulate today's prices for bread, and the banking system that doesn't work for the country's economy, we give full freedom and freedom. I think that the National Bank, together with the Supreme Council, should look at this situation today. Let me give you an example of a recent situation in Japan where the National Bank or the Central Bank of Japan did not want to finance or spend money on concrete projects in the economy of Japan. The prime minister of Japan said that if this bank doesn't work, it doesn't work in national ideas, it says, "We're going to close this bank and create a new bank." Ukraine must either shut down these banks that are not working for the economy in Ukraine and open a new bank, or severely regulate. Without that decision, we will not raise the economy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u9	Would you like the deputies to do the show? Just Easy, no one else? Please, Baby out of the way. Come on, out of the lobby. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In fact, I have no objection to this bill. But I would like to pay attention, Vladimir Vasilovich, to your attention and attention to our voters, Ukrainian citizens. What is the order of the day today? What, then, is the priority of lobbying laws? For six months, I've been trying to get the Supreme Council to consider a bill on a moratorium on the closure of hospitals. Today in Ukraine, hospitals are closed. That's half the cheerleaders. Each of you works in the district and you know people ask you, "Where's our hospital? Where's our school? Where's our kindergarten and so on?" You once again put in a pig's voice a bill on a moratorium on closing hospitals, but you're pushing the settlement center here. Let's mention the classic of Ukrainian Parliamentarian John Stepanovich Plush: "Don't push us." Give normal laws that are of interest to Ukrainian citizens who are expected by society. What are we looking at? And we're looking at lobby laws. First. The other one. I'd like to support my fellow Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u11	I'm asking you a question. Your microphone's been turned off.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u12	I've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u13	No three minutes. The question is being considered, read well. Our regulations. There will be no such thing. Unplug the microphone. That's it, it's off. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u14	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u15	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u16	What's wrong? Let me speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u17	There's a question. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u18	You have no right to limit me!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u19	I do. On you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u20	I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u21	Read the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u22	I'm reading the bill. What are you teaching me?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u23	I'll give you my word. The question is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u24	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u25	Sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u26	Let me do the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u27	No, it's not. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u28	Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u29	I am voting on the draft Act (No.2662) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the status and conditions of the clearing house for the servicing of financial markets contracts for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u30	Vladimir Vasilovich, you have no right to unlock the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u31	I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u32	You don't! [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u33	I do, my friend.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u34	Look, Vladimir Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u35	You're my friend, I'm telling you to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u36	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u37	No, it's not. [[16:14:29]] For 317 Against-0, held-10, didn't vote-66. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 179, Fatherland - 37, Vitalia Klicka - 25, Freedom - 32, Company - 28, non-fractional - 16. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. It's under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, for the reasons of the vote, Oleg Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u38	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, in our second reading, we will now consider a whole series of drafts, including those you announced, as well as 2291, 1178, 1177, 2202, 1154, 2144, which in the first reading were allegedly adopted at the so-called exit session at the Bank's. There's a proposal that these bills should still be voted here in this room on the first reading. The question will be completely removed, otherwise we will not vote in favour of these bills, and we will consider it, and we will appeal to the public that they have been approved illegally, legally worthless and have no appropriate power – legal force. I ask you very much to address this conflict situation, please put this law first in the first reading and later in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u39	I don't have the law in the first reading, it's considered, it's signed, it's passed all the court offices, and we're looking at it in the second reading today. What kind of question do you have? Why? Last one? On the previous question, please, Capplin, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u40	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Calla political party. We would like to support our colleagues in Freedom and also to note the fact that we do not have any political, no legal right to continue this anti-constitutional practice when a part of the people's deputies gathered out there outside Parliament, voted bills, particularly those that will be presented and discussed in the second reading, and we have to give them some new political and legal life. This is unacceptable, this move of yours, the honourable majority did not accept the entire Ukrainian people, you have demonstrated your weakness, your unwillingness for a dialogue in Parliament. You've taken a step towards the destruction of Parliament, and today, the Faction Strike, and I also think that our opposition colleagues will not continue to consecrate this anti-Parliamentary, anti-Ukrainean, anti-national, anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional, and this is regional voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u41	Please from Fatherland, and then from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u42	Can you pass Tomenkov on, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u43	Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, in addition to our solidarity with our colleagues from "STAMP" and "Freedom" on the legitimacy of these bills, we find it unacceptable that travel, holidays or other meetings are outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to draw attention to an equally serious question that we have never encountered in Parliament, thank God, and now we have an example. Here we have the Chief Legal Authority of the following bill, which you have announced for consideration, either substitutes or forgeries, since in violation of the Rules it is proposed that the second reading vote on a bill that has been completely rewritten since the first reading. This includes, for example, the need to privatize Dondiproschacht. So in the first reading, a bill was considered in another room, and on the second reading, a different bill, a different content, with privatization and everything else. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u45	Please, the faction of the Party of Regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u46	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! You have to understand, I'm talking to the opposition, the main thing is that the legislative process cannot be stopped is permanent. And nowhere in the Constitution is there such a rule that a faction, because of its political will, can block the Supreme Council or has the right. No! No! No and no! [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, when you entered the unconstitutional path and tried to violate the permanence of the legislative process in the Supreme Council, most of you had nothing left to do to comply with the Constitution: to hold a session in the walls of the Supreme Council in another room, which was done. So stop idle, let's work! You'll work, you won't get stupid and stupid questions. I suggest we go on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u47	I'll call it a 30-minute break. The two factions ask for a break: the Motherland and Strike Association. The faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Let's get back to work in 16 hours 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u48	Deputies! I give the floor to the national MP, Oleg Tajnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Opposition factions requested a break, and this break was found to be productive. In the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, we were able to achieve some compromise at this point, the essence of which is the following. In order to bring the legislative process back to constitutional order, we are not going to be looking at those bills in the second reading that were reportedly voted in the Bank's first reading today. By Tuesday, we'll have found a legally correct mechanism to constitutionalize these bills so that they are properly drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u50	Deputies! A draft Law (number 2,800) on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code is under consideration in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies (second reading). Reported to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Geller Evgeny Borisovich. Is he there? Yes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u51	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! On May 15, the Budget Committee considered a proposal for a bill to amend the Budget Code in connection with the creation of revenue and assembly bodies, number 2,800. And I prepared the corresponding comparative table for the second reading. In general, 10 proposals were made to the bill, which were taken into account by the committee. In doing so, the proposal to exclude a single contribution to non-budgetary accounts of the income organs and the congregations is taken into account, since the only contribution is not included in the budget. That is why this issue is not subject to the provisions of the Budget Code and should be regulated directly by the law on such contributions. Other proposals are related to the need to harmonize legislation. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of 2800 on second reading and, in general, as a law, according to the comparative table. Please support the decision. The Chief Legal Authority commented on the inclusion of proposals in the bill, amendments to articles of the Code that were not discussed in the first reading. Yet such proposals apply exclusively to the budget’s income. But they are also directly related to the content of the bill and aimed at eliminating disagreements in existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u52	Deputies! Any notes? The amendments made by the people’s deputies are all taken into account. May I put it to a vote? I'm asking the national MPs to prepare, to prepare. [[B in m in s a l in]] What discussion?Oh, my God! Corrections are all counted. What do you want to discuss in your second reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2800) amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies for adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[16:55:39]] For 228 Against 86, held – 15, not voted – 71. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom union - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 12. Draft Law (No. 0855) is under consideration. Please, Andrew Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u53	Colleagues, we are more than ever close to becoming the first Parliament in Ukrainian history to vote personally. There are no more than five people in the room who are still voting for two. I just voted in two, unfortunately, our colleague Mironenko. He did so repeatedly during the day. His last vote is on video and photo. So we call on our colleagues in the hall to stop this practice and put it to a vote. Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u54	Who voted? Turn on Chewchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u55	Our colleague Mironenko, a faction of the Party of Regions, voted in two.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u56	Alexander Sergiyovich, who votes in the Party of Regions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who voted?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u57	Come on, let's have the law that we passed. I'm reading. The vote is carried out by a national MP personally by means of an electronic system of voting for, against, or held in a sitting room or in a designated place for secret balloting at the hall. In the event of a plenary meeting of the People's Deputy, a violation of the requirements for personal voting by a vote in favour of another National Deputy shall be suspended. The chairman of the plenary shall establish the presence of the relevant national deputy in the meeting room of the Supreme Council, and shall, in the absence of it, order the Counting Commission to remove the card of such a national deputy and to transmit it to the presiding officer in plenary and to conduct a re-vote on the proposal that was put to the vote last. I beg you, Mironenko, who did I vote for? [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you, Alexander Sergeyevich, for whom Mironenko voted, is this MP? According to the law, I have to set up and pass it on. They say Skosar (I don't know) voted for Lukashuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Alexander Sergeevich Efremov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u58	The MP you named is in the hall. The MP you named is in the hall. As for the counting of votes, this is the Commission of Auditors. If any questions arise, they should be referred to the regulatory committee. Please refer to the Regulatory Committee for appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u59	Well, did you get it? Who should I give it to? Chewchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u60	Friends, well, I want to say two things: well, first of all, it's a unique fact what we said about Mironka. It is also noted that the fugitive MP Skosar voted in favour of his colleague Lukashuk, who is not in the hall, and it is very easy to verify. It was just in front of the entire Ukrainian people who are looking at us right now. I just want to say one thing. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you have a chance to be the first in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament to be the head of the Supreme Council, who works in the personal voting regime, we are closer than ever. I call on my colleagues in the hall, let's not humiliate ourselves by hiding under the newspapers, voting for each other, now we come up with, we're moving cards from one nest to another. It's a very simple situation: we've got the hand -- let's vote, and let's never vote for each other again in this room. Is that so hard to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u61	Deputies! According to the law we passed, I'm willing to vote. [[Applause]] To vote: Adoption of the draft Law (Registration No. 2800) amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income organs and congregations for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies are requested to vote in person. Please. [[17:04:03]] For 239. Against 104, held-14, not 40. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 193, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 15. Yes, draft Law 0855 is under consideration. I ask for attention, on the basic principles for the implementation and functioning of the Single State System for the Monitoring of Production, Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payment of Fuel Energy Resources and Municipal Services. How will we view it? Please vote, the shorter procedure. And that's our second reading. Reported to the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Vladimir Vasilovich Saldo. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! The draft Act on Basic Principles for the Implementation and Functioning of the Single State System for the Monitoring of Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payments for Fuel Energy Resources and Municipal Services was introduced by members of the previous call. Its aim is to legislatively consolidate the form of the monitoring system. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations, the draft law is to be introduced to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine for further consideration in a second reading. The proposed bill comprehensively regulates the legal relationship between the entities involved in the implementation and functioning of the monitoring system, also establishes in the State the legal principles of the authorized body, with the aim of approving the methods, forms and national standards of the micro and macro-monitoring system, ensuring that the implementation of the monitoring system is monitored and functioning. By the way, this system is designed by cybernetics experts. Deaf Academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u63	It's on the first reading. We have a second reading. Amendments: accounted for. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u64	Corrections are included. And I have to point out that the proposal to create such an organ is agreed by all the expert groups. But there is only one thing: the mandate to create an authorized state authority applies to the Cabinet of Ministers. And so, in effect, this decision will make life worse for service providers because they will have to work transparently. However, it will improve consumer awareness, for which and why it is so much to pay. The committee at its meeting supported the decision that such a monitoring system was needed, but I must determine that this was the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u65	Any questions? None. Have a seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that correct? All adjustments are included. I am voting on draft Law 0855 on the basic principles for the conduct and functioning of a single state system for the monitoring of production, supply, transport, consumption and payment of fuel and energy resources and municipal services for the adoption of second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:09:32]] For-36 Against 58, held – 108, did not vote – 205. A decision under the law is not made. On the basis of the vote, the People’s Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, we just made a huge mistake in the session room. The point is that the need for such a bill was determined as early as 2007. Today, the late National Deputy of Ukraine, Petrosov of Kharkiv, a well-known expert in housing and utilities, led the group. This bill began to develop the former mayor of Lviv, Vasil Kuibida. What is it? Here, indeed, the active minds of ours are the National Academy of Sciences. The point is that with this monitoring system being adopted, there are no more incomprehensible things that don't go through with housing services, think about who doesn't care. I have to say unpleasant things today at the address of today's government, the Ministry of Housing doesn't need such a system, because then there's a need for some manipulation, who's willing to pay what they pay, to make a big mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u67	Please, the Communist faction of Cibenko, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Vladimir Vasilovich, I was a little surprised by the decision of the Conciliation Council, since the Committee on Social Policy and Work had been tasked with speeding up preparations for the second reading of Law 1178. This is about debt to coal companies to the Social Protection Fund for loss of employment. Asked for speed — we speeded up. Today, the decision to postpone for a week, and yet many national deputies representing coal regions, today insist that the bill be considered in the hall. So I would still ask, let's see. What it takes for workers, for miners to improve the situation in these businesses, let's take a look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u69	Marcinkov, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u70	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction held on to this bill. Of course, monitoring needs to be done and really taking into account the issue of energy efficiency, but there is a lot of inadequacy and inaccuracies in the bill. In particular, a separate state-owned enterprise is being created, and this is an additional burden on the budget. In addition to the fact that there are now such state energy efficiency agencies in Ukraine, it could be involved in these functions. Article 11 of the Law also provides for a mythical private investor who is interested in the supposedly gathering of this information, but there is no access to this information that will make all businesses available to consumers. Thus, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom was kept from the bill. It really needs to be processed and in a completely different form brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u71	Teeth, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered as a committee and was, in principle, a previously negative conclusion. I am very grateful that only 36 people voted in favour. Why? Because we're talking about the transparency of accounting and reporting in general of those enterprises that are in a fuel-energy complex, but we don't notice that everyone now: a legal person, a natural person - must report to this enterprise in a mandatory manner. And that's an extra strain on our people today, who will not only consume energy, but also utilities. That's why the "Fatherland" faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u73	Is it everyone's motive? Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u74	The strike faction, Sergey Kaplin. I would like to say that our political power is strongly opposed to promoting this practice of alternate, new monitors, re-imposing its dirty paws in the pockets of ordinary citizens. The philosophy of energy conservation and the methodology of energy conservation in Ukraine must be quite different. First of all, you have to treat people with great respect and take into account that those people are having a hard time. Secondly, you have to form a clear concept of energy conservation in Ukraine, which has no government and has no active government. Thirdly, you need to base a very clear calculation of how to make our communal economy and our economy competitive as a whole. You don't have to hang up the problems and the government losses on the part of a simple Ukrainian citizen, you don't have to create new businesses, you don't have to steal gas in Russia. You should not steal the gas that is in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u75	Deputies! The draft Law (0952) on amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the presence of a child in public food and entertainment facilities during the night) is being considered. Please, head of the subcommittee on family, youth policy, sports and tourism, Mikola Vasilovich Jouk. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You are considering bill 0952: amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards the presence of a child in public food and entertainment facilities during the night). There were four amendments to the committee, all considered and taken into account. The only thing I would like to add is that the honourable colleagues, the committee has another proposal to make a change to the final drafting of the bill to take into account the observations of the Legal Authority and the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies - I say for the transcript - part of the first article 20 with footnote 1 to add the words "or persons who accompany it and are personally responsible for it." With this amendment in mind, please accept the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u77	Deputies! All changes are included, accounted for. I therefore put to the vote draft Law No. 0952 amending certain legislations of Ukraine (for the presence of a child in social and entertainment establishments at night) with an editorial amendment for adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:17:58]] For 350. Against-0, held-2, didn't vote-55. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 53, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 33, Company - 31, non-fractional - 14. The law is passed. There's no motive. The law is passed. We're learning. Mikolo? A draft Law No. (0953) on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children in care or care is under consideration, and on strengthening the material support of families with such children. Reported to the head of the subcommittee on family, youth policy, and sports, Zuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u78	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You will have before you a bill (0953) to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children who are placed under care or care, and to strengthen the material support of families that are raised by such children by the national deputies of Ukraine on the Sixth, the previous call, the Royal and the Pshonka. Six proposals were made to the committee regarding the bill. They're all accounted for. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. Therefore, I would like to support the proposal made by the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, Tourism and the adoption of a bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are fully accounted for. Therefore, I am drafting the Law (0953) to amend certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children under care or care and to strengthen the material support of families with such children for adoption in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:20:41]] For 365 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 41. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 181, Fatherland - 63, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 32, Company - 31, non-fractional - 23. A draft Act (registration No. 0894) is under consideration to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring legislation into line with the Criminal Procedure Code. Please, head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen! Deep-pitched pantry! I have been instructed by the Special Committee to report on the second reading of draft amendments to the Law on the introduction of legislation in accordance with Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code No. 0894. But since there is a principled position to speak in Russian, I will translate immediately, so I apologize to the Ukrainian, Russian, and Russian philosophers for the mistakes I will have. Dear comrades, the Sectoral Committee has considered the amendments and all 20 amendments have been taken into account. They are purely technical, and the Committee therefore proposes that the law be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u81	I'm going to translate what he said. Ladies and gentlemen, 100 percent of the amendments under this law are counted. That's what he said in Russian. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 0894) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation, the introduction of legislation in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. For adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:23:24]] For 268. Against 43, held – 23, not voted – 72. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law is being considered in the first reading of amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the removal of restrictions on the conduct of agricultural activities. How will we view it? I'll bet you a vote. Short-term procedure. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[17:24:18]] For-188. Decision taken. 188, versus 84, held - 12, not voted - 122. Decision taken. A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, reports. Please. And then there's Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorable voters, distinguished colleagues! Your view is on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to remove restrictions on the conduct of economic activity (registration number 2698), introduced by the Head of State and defined as urgent. The need for the adoption of legislation is linked to the excessive restrictions on business development contained in the Civil Protection Code, which has been in force since July 1, 2013. The aim of the project is to significantly reduce administrative pressure on entrepreneurs by introducing restrictions on the interference of entities with commercial authority. The bill provides for the abolition of the introduction of a new direct analysis of construction projects, namely: civil protection expertise; the removal of fire control authorities from carrying out construction projects; the cancellation of the need for entities to submit declarations of conformity with the material and technical base on the use of objects adopted after completion of construction; the removal of duplication of controls on compliance with the requirements of technological and fire safety during the design and construction of buildings; and the prohibition of the granting of civil authorities in the area of civil protection of paid household services. It is proposed that a verification mechanism be established by district administrative courts on the grounds that most decisions they make are justified. So the point is that government authorities and control authorities don't allow or allow their decisions to do construction to entrepreneurs, they go to the courts, and by giving their arguments, they get permission or they don't get permission to do business. So it's about protecting the interests of the producers and the interests of the producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u83	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u84	It's about protecting those entrepreneurs that we talked about this morning when we initiated parliamentary hearings about entrepreneurial activities. Please support the President of Ukraine's Law in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u85	Please, the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! This bill was tabled by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an urgent matter for further consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice considered the bill at its meeting on April 17, 2013. The changes proposed by the President of Ukraine aim to significantly reduce administrative pressure on businesses and businesses and complicate the process of involving state bodies in their activities. In view of the foregoing, he certainly deserves support. It should be noted that the Supreme Administrative Court does not object to the adoption of the bill. The main scientific and expert office made a number of comments that could be considered during the preparation of the draft for second reading. The Supreme Council committee on the basis of its consideration of the bill decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u87	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up from factions for 2 for 2 for 2 against. Please, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, get your ass together.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I have briefly explained the contents of this bill in my report. We talk a lot about deregulation. We're talking about simplifying access to entrepreneurial activity in Ukraine. We declare many good, right intentions. Now, at the initiative of the President, who personally controls the direction of deregulation reform, we have a very good, good and necessary bill for entrepreneurs. I ask you to support, regardless of our divisions and opposition, this law, because it is in the interests of the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u89	Freedom Union, Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u91	Please, Oleg Schneatzyk's People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u92	Oleg Knawiczyk, U.S.A. Freedom, First Deputy Head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. Although this bill was agreed upon by the committee, positions were divided on the committee. Because it's supposed to appear visually to improve entrepreneurial activity, but on the other hand, it's very dangerous, especially with regard to the abuse of control and fiscal authorities specifically to entrepreneurs. The law provides for another category of court cases. First of all, it's an extra burden on the courts, which has been repeatedly referred to by both the Venice Commission and the European Union, and all European institutions, which need to reduce the workload of the courts so that the courts can deal with the case in a qualitative manner. There is another category of cases for the courts, and in fact, it is provided for in such an order that before carrying out the inspection, tax authorities, in particular, take the sanctification of the court. After that, you can imagine when such a test will be carried out, whether an entrepreneur will be able to charge the results of such a trial later in court when there was a court decision. Moreover, such judicial decisions will be of a purely formal nature, and they will be considered on a formal basis, just as today many decisions are being considered formally and in criminal proceedings, including individual sanctions. Therefore, we believe that this will be a tool for abuse and will be an opportunity to make certain repressions against those who will be unfavourable in the market. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will not vote for it and will also urge other MPs not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u93	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u94	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u95	Please, Oksani Sella, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u96	Thank you very much. The Vitalia Klitschka faction always supports all the bills regardless of who they are, if they're actually offered for the benefit of the citizens, including, for the benefit of entrepreneurs. Along with it. That bill that we're considering with you right now, it's not going to do any good to entrepreneurs, and more than that, it's a danger to the country, a danger to all citizens why? I explain, first of all, the services that we now have, the rescue service, it takes away the authority and responsibility to protect it from high-risk fires, as it did today. At the same time, the responsibility to ensure this security remains with businesses. Who will provide this? I don't understand. Judging from this position that exists today and the last three years, it's clear that there's already some private firm that's going to be taking money from all companies to provide security, and the government agency won't take money for it. Another question, already a colleague of Freedom talked about new novelties in administrative justice. I want to draw attention to the fact that if there is, God forbid, adopted this law, the right of entrepreneurs to press charges against a company's stop, the right to complain about the termination of a business. Because in this project, which is proposed, the only one who has the right in court to press charges against a company stop by a controlling authority will be this controlling body, If Mr. Jury thinks it's for entrepreneurs, I disagree with him, and the entrepreneurs of the million that are still in Ukraine don't agree with that either. And the others that are here. If start-ups today are required to develop engineering measures for construction free of charge, the bill provides that these requirements will be paid for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u97	All those who wish to speak? No, it's not. Please, the Motherland Union, the People's Deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u98	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!'Kiyev. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this bill is indeed a combination of the uncombined. On the one hand, it takes into account some of the World Bank's recommendations on deregulation, particularly on the prohibition of paid services, and this is very attractive to entrepreneurs, to the market for economic development. On the other hand, such innovations have been introduced into administrative procedures that will make life more difficult, unfortunately, for non-verifying bodies, namely entrepreneurs. It will be more difficult for entrepreneurs to protect their rights in the implementation of such a procedure. As a result, we believe that this bill cannot be supported in such a way, and that the positive thing is, it is better to legislate and adopt it for the benefit of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u99	People's deputies, please sit down and prepare for the vote. The draft Law (Registration No. 2698) on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to remove restrictions on the implementation of economic activity is on the ground. Please vote. [[17:35:53]] For 231 Against 61, holding 49, not voting 58. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the order and conditions of punishment is under consideration. How do we view it? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:36:39]] For 190 Against 90, abstaining, 14, not voting, 106. Decision taken. First Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanova Inna Ivanovna will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Submitted to your consideration a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the order and conditions of punishment designed for the purpose of humanizing criminal law enforcement. What novels are proposed in this bill? First of all, it's suggested that those convicted of will limitations, as well as those condemned to be deprived of the will held in the social rehabilitation unit, have it with them, and use mobile phones. Condemned to the restriction of will, it is proposed that marriage be granted the right to an extramarital date. It is also designed to establish in article 107 of the Code a comprehensive list of prohibitions against convicted persons. By the way, today's list of prohibitions is set at the level of regulations, which, of course, we understand, is unacceptable. The project also provides for changes aimed at allowing convicts who are confined to a disciplined isolation center — a carcrear — or to be transferred to a cell - type facility to have telephone conversations. The project is also designed to identify a unique list of the reasons why these phone calls are provided for the purpose of, inter alia, educating or dealing with exceptional personal circumstances, such as the death or serious illness of a close relative who threatens the life of a sick person or a natural disaster that has caused significant material harm to the convicted person or his family. A special block in this bill is dedicated to the protection of the rights of mothers and children. This is about mothers and children who are in the home of a child in correctional colonies, and it is particularly important that parents visit these children. Today, there is no such right for a child who is with his mother in the house of a reformed colony. This is done to ensure that the child has an inseparable relationship with his or her loved ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u101	Thank you. Come on, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u102	Thank you. It is also suggested that convicted minors should not be confined to short - term dating and that they should be allowed to have a long - term date once a month. Requesting to support this bill -- it is extremely important -- for the purpose of humanizing criminal law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u103	The committee reports a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement Services, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas will report it or not? Please. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u104	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill (Registration No. 1131), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provides for amendments to a number of articles of the Criminal Enforcement Code, according to the initiator, aimed at the rights and legitimate interests of those sentenced to imprisonment in the form of restrictions of will, waiver of freedom for a certain period and permanent deprivation of liberty, and the humanization of conditions for their detention in the institution of execution of sentences. In our view, however, there is a substantial reduction in the project's over-detailing of the prohibitions against convicted persons and the deprivation of their will, of their doing. Do certain things (part four of article 107 of the Code), such as hanging or changing places, delivering products without permission and other things. They have to be provided for by legislation, not by legislation. Ukraine's legislation. By the way, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is paying attention. Needs to be excluded from the project in preparation for the second reading paragraph of the second part of article 46 of the KPC of Ukraine, which provides for the possibility of a criminal inspection to be made before the court of the materials for the sentenced person to be punished in the form of corrective labour for the replacement of the unpaid portion of the fine. This link is incorrect, since the replacement of an unspent portion of the sentence is softer, provided for in article 82 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the replacement of correctional work for a fine provided for in article 46 of the Criminal Code. The Committee recommends that the draft law be adopted in the first reading. Members of the opposition committee voted against this proposal because we believe that the bill essentially restricts the rights of prisoners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u105	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for factions: two fors, two againsts. Please, Fatherland faction Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u106	I give the word Odarchenko to the People's Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u107	Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues! First of all, in this law, for reasons that are not clear, the government of Azarov proposes to prohibit such a measure from encouraging those who are convicted of correctional work, such as the submission of proposals to the court for the replacement of punishment for a more mild or release from punishment. In accordance with article 22 of the Constitution, changes to laws prohibit the reduction of existing rights and freedoms of citizens and people. As a result, such a deterioration in the situation of those condemned to correctional work is simply unacceptable. In addition, the bill proposes to remove restrictions on the holding of short - term dates for individual categories of convicted persons. On the other hand, there is a ban on dating persons who are not close relatives. Thus, we violate the rights of those who want to have a long - term date with a husband or a woman with whom a person is in a so - called civil marriage. We have no right to discriminate against a convicted person, with whom we have no right to discriminate against a convicted person. And, dear fellows, under these circumstances, I am officially opposed to the adoption of this bill as a whole and in the first reading, and I believe that it is subject to substantial elaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u109	The Freedom Union. Andrew Mishchenko, Freedom Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u110	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, head of the committee for execution of sentences and penitentiary services. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union strongly opposes these amendments because they do not actually make it easier or humanize this area, but rather they are more repressive to the people who are in prison. In general, we need to find out what a penitentiary service is for in every society. It's to isolate, on the one hand, criminals, on the other hand, it's to educate people who may have gone somewhere in this life. Instead of following the recommendations of the Council of Europe to pursue a policy of humanizing punishments, Ukraine, with every day of its current regime, jumps into a totalitarian, military, and corrupt system. This is evidenced by the government’s initiatives to reduce the rights and conditions of imprisonment, to encourage corruption in penitentiary institutions. Yes, when we put people in prison, we now propose to ban long - term dating, as it was before, rather than just dating close relatives. A clear date with the people will be held. Instead, it will be done because of the bribes made by the prison manager. The possibility of parole for exemplary conduct is excluded, replacing it with a fine. The bill proposes to allow unfettered use of mobile phones, while at the same time it prohibits the use of electricity. What about charging them? It's the bribes again. Let's move on. It is forbidden to hang photos, reproductions, and postcards. That's us. Let's move on. And by what? Yeah. What, though, will help to protect the rights and legitimate interests of prisoners who are forbidden to keep their hands in their pockets? Perhaps this idea of valid authority came from an acquired experience or how? First, you guys, get your hands out of the pockets of Ukrainians and the government budget. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u111	Please, the Vitaly Caller faction, the Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u112	I'd like a word with Oksani for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u113	Please, Oksani Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u114	Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. The Vitalia Klitschka faction does not support the bill, because it actually does not give anything better to those held and convicted today than it really is. And what a colleague has just talked about is that it's kind of written here, that you can use the phone, it's not written like that. It says here that you can have your phone and accessories with you. But having and using ourselves are two big differences. Everything else in this bill is an exclusive limitation of rights, and so people with limited rights today. That's why we strongly advocate creating rights in Ukraine for people who actually have constitutional rights and to create in colonies, to create conditions in the insulators that will make people feel human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u115	A party of regions, Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u116	Please, pass the word to the Lady of God, the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u117	Lady of the Gods, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, we will support this project and we ask you to support it all. You know that today the Ministry of Justice is working in close cooperation with representatives of European institutions, which the changes and humanization of the legislation on the receiving of prisoners have placed as one of the priorities of our movement to the European Union. Yes, this law is not the absolute solution to all the problems of the penitentiary service, but it humanizes this process. And this is a new step towards bringing Ukraine closer to European standards for obtaining convicts. So we ask now not to demand an absolute result, but to move step by step towards humanizing Ukrainian procedural legislation. And we turn to all those who consider themselves to be proponents of Ukraine's European integration to support this law because it was developed with the participation of foreign experts and fully corresponds to the humanization of detention practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u119	One minute is the national MP Lazko and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u120	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, we have such a penitentiary system today that Ukrainian citizens who get into it get rid of all rights. To a person who has not yet been found guilty of a court decision, these people have been kept in inhuman conditions for years, deprived of access to adequate medical care, deprived of opportunities to communicate with lawyers, and deprived of opportunities for human life. And so I demand that the government, if you can't change the situation, you have to close these prisons in general. And let the people out of there, half the people are sitting there for nothing. And I take this opportunity to go to the Ministry of Justice and say, "When are you going to execute the decision of the European Court of Justice on Timoshenko? When will you release Timoshenko from prison? What else do you need, what kind of decision do you need to finally get out of prison? Timoshenko and others?" I demand a ruling from the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I put it to a vote. Draft law (registration number 1131) amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (in order and conditions of punishment) to vote and accept as a basis. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[17:50:55]] For 228 Against-99, held-23, not voted-45. The factions. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my session for 15 minutes, but... I'm asking for your attention! I'm asking for your attention! On Tuesday we considered and voted in favour of the first reading of the draft Law (Registration No. 2847) amending the Law on the State Budget 2013 (to improve the procedure for financial notes). I would like to point out that I have been approached by national MPs with statements that in voting for this law there are some obstacles to their voting, some that have not worked in the "Council" system, others because of the noise in the session room have not understood the proposal that was put to the vote. The other one. I have also been asked by the National Deputies to submit applications for violating the requirements of part three of article 47 of the Rules for the Personal Voting of National Deputies when deciding on a draft law (registration number 2847) amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. You remember, there were 227 votes. With regard to improving the procedure for financial notes. Therefore, according to the requirements of part four of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I have to re-vote these matters without discussion by decision of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's put it this way, I'll put it to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the motion to re-vote draft laws 2846 and 2847. And I ask you to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, your honor, well, you asked me! Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You asked, I didn't ask! [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:54:02]] For 217 It's okay, and you were worried. Let's keep working. Well, you asked for 227 votes! Well, what about it? [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's take one more question and go to tomorrow. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the State Special Transport Service is under consideration. How will we view it? Please vote on the simplified procedure. We're working! [[17:55:06]] For 190 Against 75, held – 11, not a vote – 110. Decision taken. Deputy Infrastructure Minister Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich will report, and then head of the subcommittee. And we're gonna finish the job for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u122	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the State Special Transport Service. The DST was created by the Ukrainian Law of February 5, 2004, and is formally not a military formation, although it has a number of signs of military formation. In this way, the DST is composed of military personnel who are engaged in military service and who are subject to the military statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u123	Quiet! The microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u124	In addition, in a special period, the main functions of the DST have been attributed to the implementation of the territorial defence measures. As well as measures aimed at maintaining the legal regime of war and state of emergency. Today, the issue of the replenishment of stockpiles of ammunition for the firearms of the individual service force has become acute. The bill was designed to create legislative preconditions for the transfer and replenishment of arms and ammunition stockpiles of the State Transport Service in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To this end, the bill proposes to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property and the Armed Forces of Ukraine and article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Special Transport Service. The implementation of the project does not require additional material and financial costs. After a comprehensive discussion by the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the National Security and Defence Committee unanimously approved the decision to introduce the draft Law for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommend its acceptance as a basis and as a whole. On the basis of what has been said, please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u125	Have a seat. Associated with Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, head of the National Security Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u126	Dignified People’s Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a carefully worked bill and carefully studied by the Committee on Defence and Security. The objective is this: to provide legislative support for the replenishment of weapons and ammunition of the State Transportation Service of the Ministry of Defence. Our committee has been carefully studied and unanimously voted. Therefore, I appeal to you as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u127	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up. Please, Freedom Union, Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u128	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u129	Please, National Deputy Orotyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u130	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. The National Security and Defence Committee, in fact, unanimously supported the amendments to the State Special Transportation Service Act. But why did these changes have to be approved? Because at first we have thoughtless reforms, we have all the reforms that today's regime is doing in order to break up and break up our current army and to undermine our resilience. Finally, there must be a clear doctrine of protection and defense of the state. We need to understand that as a nonblock state, we must be prepared to protect our security constantly, for no one but us can do so. What does our government really do? Does he develop a doctrine of protection? No! No! On Saturday, the government will call to Ukraine. Introduces internal forces. Tell me, what happened in Ukraine this Saturday on Europe’s Day, what did it take to bring in internal troops? Perhaps the Fascist march that the Party of Regions is running is a threat? But the Chinese will cope and will be able to stop this anti - Ukrainian Sabbath that will pass in the center of Kiev. So our regime instead of fighting its own people, instead of increasing the financing of Berkutu every day, to increase the financing of criminal structures should finally develop a clear, understandable doctrine of protection and defence of Ukraine under non-block conditions. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will vote in favour of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u131	Kolechenko, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u132	Respectable comrades! Of course, the anti-fascist movement of Ukraine is expanding and cannot be stopped. And, of course, the black worms that come out from under the stones will be crushed by the boots of our Ukrainian civilians, who will not allow neo-Nazi young men to indicate in what language they speak, how they will vote, what churches they are going to go to. That is why brown young people are furious because they understand that their zombieism for young people ends, that their temporary glory ends, that we will have equality, justice, and that the Ukrainian President's programme “Ukraine — For People” will be implemented. And only one nuance. This will all take place without this political force, and they will be no longer present at this celebration of the life of the Ukrainian people. Of course, our Government has some difficulties because today we see the vast majority of reasonable MPs working for the Ukrainian people drafting and voting bills. A number of marginal splinters are trying to block the work of Parliament and the wise decisions of our remarkable Government. We therefore call upon you, of course, to support a very wise, very timely and important draft law that has been passed by the Government. This will be another contribution to building the foundation of statehood, independence and prosperity for our remarkable Ukrainian State. Hail to the hero city of Sevastopol!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u133	“ Fatherland, ” Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u134	Respectable fellow countrymen, respected citizens! Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." From the opposition forces I urge you to come on May 18th at 12:00 to the European Square and all together say "no" to the criminal regime of Yanukovic, who has already received the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, there hasn't been any better Fascism ads from the Party of Regions in the last 20 years. These stupid anti-fascist marches are all they are. The Fascist party itself is only advertising fascism. So let's come on May 18th and say no to the Fascism of the Party of Regions. Respectable citizens. Come to the European Square and together we will stand for the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u135	I'm asking you, National Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka block.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u136	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Calla political party, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee. I would like to take this opportunity to officially address Prime Minister Azarov Mikli Janović of Ukraine. To the Minister of Defence, as well as to the President of Ukraine, they were urged to apologize to the entire Ukrainian people for having lied to every mother, every Ukrainian citizen, during the presidential election campaign a few years ago, and now to Parliament, that they would enter a contractual army this year. Remember, in their time, they lied about tax vacations for small businesses, now they lied about being a contractual army, then they lied about what would be an improvement and what it really is. It's like people can't see that there's no improvement, especially in the army. Think about it, official statistics say that for everyone, one Ukrainian soldier spends less money on keeping one monkey in a zoo. This is a humiliation of the Ukrainian army.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-16-m1.u137	Everyone expressed their thoughts. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare and vote. Draft Act (Registration No. 1232) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the State Special Transportation Service. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:05:00]] For 265 Against 34, with 18, with no vote, 61. Decision taken. The factions. I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'll invite you all to the session. Good-bye.
