ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration, Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. They registered in the 392 National Deputies Hall. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Gordijenko Sergia Volodymyrovich and Fedoruka Mikoli Trochymovic. [[Applause]] Let's say hello to our nouns, wish you well. Dear National MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. Therefore, I would like to ask the national deputies to sign up for the performance. The party of the regions, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, is transmitting. Please, Inno German.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u2	Good morning, country of honor! During my parliamentary work, I spoke from this rostrum exclusively in Ukrainian. Because it was my good will. But like all Ukrainians, I am free and stubborn. And when someone tries to force me to do what I don't want to do, when someone tries to force me and millions of Ukrainians to communicate in their own language, I say so. From now on, I will speak Russian from this rostrum until European rules are in place in the Ukrainian Parliament! [[B in m in s a l in]] We are talking today about the need to approach European standards every day. But European standards do not tolerate fascism. What is happening to the Freedom party today is once again demonstrating that there has already been a phenomenon in Ukraine called neo-fascism. The phenomenon, which is primarily based on the rejection of any other view, in brute force, on threats and the destruction of any dissension. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today I want to address those who stand next to Freedom. Hit and Vitaly Clitchko, what are you doing next to them?Oh, my God! You're used to fighting in the ring in an honest and open fight. What are you doing with these hoodlums who are used to beating their faces and not being able to do anything anymore?Oh, my God! I want to go to Fatherland. Among you are the masses of people who consciously make choices in favour of European integration. What you are doing next to a party on which the European Parliament has made clear: no alliances with Freedom can, no coalitions. You and I have Ukrainian neo-fascism in our eyes. Today, the entire nation must pay attention to this process and isolate this political force, as we isolate the sick with cholera. Quarantine for Freedom is what Ukrainian society demands today. I want to address all mothers and fathers in Ukraine. Keep your kids out of this cholera. Be careful. This is a serious challenge to Ukraine, a serious challenge to all our families, freedom, true human freedom in Ukraine. Freedom is not a "Freedom" party, and human freedom ends where you attack someone else's freedom. Nephasism in Ukraine will not pass!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u3	Party of regions, Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Kinah Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u5	Please, Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I remember this very well at the beginning of the 1990s, when we claimed the political, territorial, financial, economic infrastructure of the independent state of Ukraine. Both our own Ukrainian experience and the world’s, under harsh competition, is confirmed by the fact that when every nation and every nation chooses their place under the sun, only the consolidated nations win, where there is understanding in the political powers of the nation’s priorities, where efforts are united, and the current humiliating competition, interpersonal political, is moving far away. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has great debts to the Ukrainian people. And the formation of a competitive state is not achieved by methods, attempts to humiliate a person by language or nationality, or by political dividends by images, political speculations, or labels. So, honourable people's deputies, we need to be clear, 2013 is the 22nd year of our nation's independence. A major task is to create conditions for Ukraine's integration into European economic and political space in order to form modern standards of living on Ukrainian land, to strengthen the energy security of the state as a basis for reducing our already huge dependence on external economic, political conditions. It is clear that we need to improve our methods of protecting our economic interests, optimizing Ukraine's conditions in the World Trade Organization. The negative external trade surplus is already below $16 billion. We create jobs abroad. The President of Ukraine has approved a national plan to address these issues in terms of the current year. The State's programme to revitalize economic development has been approved. It is necessary to prepare for adjustments to the current budget in 2013, especially from the point of view of improving local self-government, to prepare very serious changes to improve the investment climate, protect the rights of the owner, investors, and form a middle class in Ukraine. So the faction of the Party of the Regions calls, we are sure, for Ukraine’s interests, to unite around these issues, and to form conditions for the development of the competitive state of Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u7	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Haydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u9	Please. And the Kaletnik passes on three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In Ukraine today, two woes and two problems are opposition and roads. Prolonged winter ruins Ukraine’s roads. And the prolonged blocking of the opposition of the Supreme Council destroys parliamentaryism, destroying statehood in Ukraine. Already, our European parliamentarians have been patient, and they have turned, and a patient has fallen into them and turned to our opposition. Stefan Fule's mouth: "Stop blocking the only legislative body in Ukraine." Listen to this advice because you are ruining statehood in Ukraine. What is the reason for such a position? And it's very simple on the surface. There are three leaders of the opposition. It's a triumph, and it's not news in history. And between these three there is a fierce internal struggle, which of them is the main opposition in Ukraine. Please fight. But do not get involved in this thorny Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, and give people the opportunity to work. I know they'll say there's no problem. It's really a sign of a triumph when they say there's no outside, but there's a problem inside -- there's a fight going on. But it is not only the MPs who are despised but also the simple electorate who are despised. Recently, Oleg Tuggnibok gave such an interview. And you know, in this interview, it's scary things when he says that the appointment of the sole candidate to the city head of Kiev will follow the principle of the first night. If Klitschko doesn't go, the first night he goes to Yatzenuk, if Yatzenuk doesn't go, he'll come to Dragnibok. It's cynicism in relation to the territorial community. Ladies and gentlemen, Kyiv is not your girlfriend. Kiev is the capital of Ukraine. Kiev is the largest territorial community in Ukraine. There are conscientious, honest, and decent people living and working in Kiev. And even when you block, they create comfortable conditions for you, they don't block, they work for the state and respect them. Because I'll tell you, in this word of chance, it's not just a mechanism, in that word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't gloat! Because I'll tell you, when you hear a speech in Russian, you scream when you're in Ukrainian. And I want to tell you, looking at you as a Ukrainian, any attempt to limit the opinion of another citizen by pressure, not dialogue, and there's fascism. And don't be surprised when they say that to you, looking into your eyes. It's just, you know, trying to say that in this way they want to see Kiev, it's a short program for the first night candidate. And the second day and the third day doesn't matter anymore. But there was still an interesting thing. The same Oleg Tuggnibok said: "If we, the three political forces of the opposition, define--you think about it--anyone, Kiev will have a city head." This is, you know, a way of rape! But that's what happened in history when Julia Timoshenko put Turkinov and Kiev out and said, sorry, in this way we don't accept the choice in Kiev, it has to be an honest position. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps today is in principle the question of how to organize work in Parliament. It is not safe for us to look outside the dialogue for attempts to resolve conflicts, battles. Yesterday there was a shameful phenomenon when the fight began again. You have to give it up. It is important to remember that Parliament is not a sports field, Parliament is a compromise site. Ukraine is different, we are different, and we must listen to one another. Any effort you make to impose on the English language will be met with opposition. You are doing more harm than those who tolerate speaking in Ukrainian rather than trying to do so in strong ways by encouraging this opponent. It's a disgrace to you. Because more damage than yesterday and the day before yesterday you didn't bring Ukraine. We must stop this practice. And to the end. In this way, talking to Kiev and Ukraine will not work. I'll be honest with you, with a good Ukrainian tradition, you're going to get a pumpkin with a basket of carrots, not power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, you are not at the rally. You're not at the rally, I say again. Let's hear each other out. The Supreme Council, each expressing his own opinion. You'll be performing, everyone will be shouting. What's that supposed to be? [[B in m in s a l in]] You have to sign up, and I'll give you my word. The Fatherland faction, the Restless. I say again, it's the Supreme Council, not the rally. I beg you, Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u12	I ask you to pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u13	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Vasilovich, citizens of Ukraine! I'm asking you to understand me correctly, but I want to speak in English. Although they will scream "fascists" and so on, because they think that their language in Ukraine is a sign of fascism, not respect for the nation, for the people, for the land that each of you gave birth to, so I'll speak Ukrainian. That's the first one. [[Applause]] The other one. One man who created the Canoe Four is now cursing the triumvirate. But the Kanvian Four will enter the history of Ukraine as an example of betrayal, Byzantineism and colluarial games. Third. Kiev is not a girl. But why are you raping them with your position today? Why, you perverts, you make Kiev a salesgirl, she won't, she'll choose her power. And what I'm saying is that few of those who are here speaking out as if fighting for Kiev understand what is happening today in Kiev. And with power, it's the only city in Ukraine where there's no local representation, and what's hanging on criminal hooks, over 40 criminal cases, they've shared land with you, property and today they're continuing to transfer to archives, as they say, either in the anal, or in the Ahmedov shelter, other people, "Kiyevenergo-holding" -- a thousand out of business surpluses, U.S. universities and a lot of other things. That's how you need Kiev, where you have to pull everything you can from, and you're doing it, and you're going to end up here today. So in Kiev today, not just roads, thanks to you, but also to the lack of communication on which the sewer is running. There's only holes left in the ground. Kiev needs a host, a normal host, not screams like Chernewsky, who rested abroad, and their adepts were looted here. Today they sit in part of your factions and continue to rape the Kyiv. So I wanted us to look at Kiev today as our common capital, as a city where we both need to live normally, and you and your children, including. This is no way to treat the city, so today I would like to support the projects that will be carried out, the vote in Kiev on June 2. You can’t drag on until the summer before which repairs are needed to prepare the city for autumn. Because last year they were mainly involved in sports objects, piranha throughout the world, and Kiev was launched nowhere else. We can't drag on with the Kiev government, let's support it, vote for the election in Kiev on June 2nd, so that the Chinese, not you and I, by the way, define our mayor, our power, and take power in their country, in their city, with their heads and perspectives, not what you're pushing us to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u15	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Jacinuk. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u16	Guys, I'd like to start with a nice one. As a united opposition, we are pleased that yesterday, in the session hall, a broad front against government decisions, including the abolition of pension reform, as opposed to antinational medical reform, as opposed to tax reform. Our ideological opponents are communists. This means that the demands of the Fatherland and the opposition are correct and fair. Therefore, I thank all those who oppose the reforms carried out by the Janukovic team, although it is true that it would be better for the previous parliament to leave the parliamentary majority and not allow them to be approved. But I am convinced that in this session room, we will undo both the shameful pension reform and the anti-national medical reform. I wanted to tell Adepts and Ideologists of the Customs Union. We already have tens of millions of dollars spent on outside advertising, and we have a fifth or sixth or some column that starts in the morning and ends in the evening as we join the Customs Union. My friends, Fatherland will pay the delegation not to take parliamentary money, to Kazakhstan and to Belarus. Ask the leaders of Kazakhstan and Belarus, they come out of the Customs Union as one who destroyed their economy. There's going to be a referendum in Kazakhstan where both the opposition and the leaders are going to come out of the Customs Union. The third thesis that we would like to draw attention to as opposition. As long as we're having a discussion here, sometimes it's civilized, sometimes it's not, we have a second series with a Kuchma referendum. And I'd like to pay particular attention to this whole story to journalists. The public -- I mean the members of Eastern and South Ukraine's performances -- they were assigned to the President's Administration: they're organizing a national referendum. There's organizers in this room. In Zacarpatta, I think 101 percent was in Donetsk, 99 percent. These are the classics for organizing the referendum. The same questions, but when they talk about the benefits of MPs, and justly they have to be taken away when they talk about parliamentary immunity, somehow, they're shy about what the bicameral parliament is doing there, my friends. I think we have a two-storey parliament left to destroy the country. I'm willing to read lectures as a doctor of political science to those classics who want to turn Ukraine or the monarchy because there are two-storey parliaments, or in a federal, confederate state. Do you want authorities in the upper room to sit in the upper room and buy areas, and in the lower room in the majority districts to appoint voters? What are you doing? Stop at least before the country collapses. I address all factions. We have to do everything we can to prevent a referendum. The question of a bicameral parliament is not to allow it in general with such questions. The only thing we have today is the strength and unity of the country, we don't have at least an inter-national conflict. That's how you're going to ruin the country by this referendum about a bicameral parliament. So once again, we're not going to allow this referendum and we're going to do everything we can to make Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u17	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u18	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Just one and a half years ago, a pension theft was committed in this hall under cover of night. Under the Ukrainian Law on Public Pension Insurance, Mr. Tihypco, the then Minister of Social Policy made changes that turned pension reform into a pension genocide. And to those who are voting now, I would like to remind you that unlike you, the faction of the Ukrainian Company was the only one who consistently voted against the pension reform in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] So the time that followed the pension reform showed that it had failed with a crash. There was no substantial increase in pension insurance. The government today likes to call the average of pensions in Ukraine in 1,400 dollars. So what I'm saying is that the average pension in Ukraine is like the average hospital temperature: someone has 42 and someone's cold and on average 36.6. That's the first one. The other one. We don't know how this average is forming? One MP or official gets a pension of 15,000 dollars, and 10 poor people get a pension of less than 1,000 dollars, and on average they get 1,400 dollars. And one more thing. I'm not saying that 1 out of 3 citizens of Ukraine, 1 out of 3 pensioners and 14 million of them, gets a pension of one thousand dollars and less. I'm not saying that this so-called pension reform has deprived tens of thousands of young people of their first job, and I'm not talking about the fact that the pension budget deficit is not shrinking. And most importantly, what I'm trying to say is that the authorities got the bubble from the pension reform, and the citizens got the bubble hole. So what I'm saying is that millions of Ukrainian citizens today are looking forward to abolishing pension reform, abolishing medical reform, repaying their debt on a deplorable salary rather than dragging the cable on a different issue. So, Vladimir Vasilovich, on behalf of the faction of Ukraine, I insist that the issue of pension reform be restored to the weekly order of the day, because when we approved with you yesterday for the week of the day, this problem was present. So we insist that this issue be returned and that we consider it soon. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will not vote until these issues are addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u19	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Mathios.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u20	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u21	National Deputy Mathios, did you pass the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u22	They've already told me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u23	Well, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u24	I didn't admire the rostrum. Dear voters, it's nice to speak after the communists. I understand that on Friday we now have a chance to resign, along with the opposition of the government of Azarov, for whom you voted twice. We're waiting for your votes. [[Applause]] You know, as a representative of this political party, which unites the country, because it has the same support in both the east and the west and the center, and the south and the north. I want to say that Vitaly Klitschko and his colleagues receive thousands of requests from ordinary Ukrainians, why this power is breaking the country apart, splits it apart by geography and party property. And perhaps the brightest example of this division is the Kiev, which has actually been without a city head for three years, a year officially, just because the Chinese did not accept this authoritarian authority. A little example. When there was a tragedy in Jenakiyovo a year ago and the mayor died in the home city of the President, elections were scheduled for three months. Because 97 percent could be provided for the right candidate. There is no candidate for power in Kiev. The Chinese do not accept this authoritarian party. And in addition, the Party of Power is afraid of Vitalia Klicka, who has three times as many ratings as any representative of the government and all of them combined. And that's why these elections are not scheduled. And what I really want to say is, if the government were wise, it would also have felt that signal from the simple ones that they gave you in the October 2012 elections. When none of the authorities, official or hidden, received a vote from the Chinese. This was also a negative response to what is happening in Kiev. Because we demand that there be a city head in Kiev! So he can have the rights that a city head is supposed to have in any city, whether it's Lviv, or it's Chernivci, where, by the way, there's not a city head for a few years anymore just because there's no candidate in the Party of Regions. We demand that the mayor of the city who will appear here, and we are convinced that there are votes to be found, raises the question of responsibility for a helicopter that is unknown to who belongs and destroys Dnieper’s slopes. That he would be responsible for what was happening to the young team of Chernevski who had ripped this city apart, and that wasn't something your pusher, your postman Popov, spoke about once. But for some reason, no one was responsible for the city’s theft. We are confident that the election will take place no later than June 2. Otherwise, if you don't go to that vote, it'll be another signal to the sneezes that this authority is to resign. And finally. Kiev is not a girl! Moreover, I urge the authorities to keep their sexist statements to themselves. Because among the male politicians there are so many selling creatures that they won't even take to the district. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u25	Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Angular. Carpuntz?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u26	Mr. Head, please give the floor to the deputy Karpuntsov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, journalists and Ukrainian citizens! I would like to draw your attention to some of the questions. Question one. Questions of implementation in our Rules walls. You remember when we were looking for a way out of a political crisis that required a personal vote, it was not just those changes to the Rules, which allowed us to go back to voting yesterday and to fix a non-personal vote. It was also yours, Volodymyr Vasilovich, public, in front of us, before the journalists the obligation to announce at the beginning of the meeting a list of persons who have registered in writing at the registration desks and a list of those who are not registered, not only those who are away, but also those who have not registered. Sadly, to this day you do not do so. And unfortunately, by your example as Head of the Supreme Council, you set an example for other leaders. I'm talking about the regulatory committee where I'm serving as the first deputy head. Unfortunately, this important committee is completely disorganized. There were only two meetings that did not even consider setting questions. There are hundreds and hundreds of questions on the Regulatory Committee. I'm not saying that there's no position on the committee secretariat, I'm not saying that it's a disorganized job at all. There's a question, for example, the associate deputy of Lebedev, who's been on the committee for over two months, but doesn't care about the agenda, doesn't look at it. Instead, the question of Vlastenk, as the whole society knows, was falsified and brought to trial. The question of co-conspirators who violate their fellow MPs, both from the faction of the Party of the Regions, both from the Communist Party, and from the Party of the Fatherland. There's a request from the Prince's deputy for a co-conspirator, for all of our colleagues. At this point, the committee is completely refusing, self-absorbing. Of course, it's clear why. In order to be able to vote in parliament for anti-national and anti-State decisions through the cards of fellow MPs. I ask you, Vladimir Vasilovich, to fulfill your promise. And first, advertise a list of people who didn't register at the registration tables. The other one. Orders the head of the regular committee to hold meetings according to the schedule. First, install it. Vladimir Vasilovich, there was a week ago on committee issues. The committee wasn't going to. It's kind of scheduled for 15 hours today. As a reporter, as the first deputy to this day, I have neither seen the agenda nor the questions on the committee. Please bring the work of the committee to the requirements of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u29	Nechayev, please. Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, I am convinced that all national deputies are deeply concerned about the health of the Ukrainians. I am grateful that, regardless of party ownership, all political forces are interested in building a quality modern and affordable health system in Ukraine is our shared national responsibility. The absence of reforms over 20 years in Ukraine has led our citizens to live 12 years less than Europeans. In Ukraine, child mortality is 2.5 times higher than in European countries. In ten years of peacetime, Ukrainians have dropped by 6 million. Chronic medical underfunding, lack of systemic reform, the consequences of the CHAES accident, the absence of disease prevention, the population dissipation system, that's the state of the medicine we're in. Today, legislative changes that have been adopted by the Supreme Council’s sixth call are taking steps to bring health care closer to the population. Nearly 500,000 Ukrainians need palliative and hospice assistance, and we must ensure that. We see that not everything goes smoothly and without mistakes. For all countries of the world, medical reform is a very complex process, and even in countries such as the United States, Germany, Spain, France, there have been numerous rallies and strikes by both citizens and health workers. The mandate to implement the reform is placed on local authorities who are responsible for every decision to reorganize hospitals. Dear colleagues, two years from now, we can also talk about positive changes. First of all, we managed to increase the sector's funding to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2012. In 14 regions of Ukraine, medical facilities were first given modern angiograms, MRI devices, and OZDH expert classes. For the second year, the National New Life Project has been successfully implemented, which has already opened nine prenatal centers, where more than 20,000 babies have been born. Honorary colleagues, national deputies of all factions, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health have already introduced a draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on Medical Reform. I'm sure all factions support this decision. We will hear the experience that is in the regions of Ukraine and we will accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u31	Turn on the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u32	important recommendations aimed at successful implementation of reform. One of the most important and responsible tasks for the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council is the adoption of the Law on Compulsory Medical Insurance. I am confident that the national MPs will do their utmost to ensure that medicine in Ukraine is of a quality and European level. Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, "Freedom", Tuggnibok is for replication, not for criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u34	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Here some representatives of the Party of the Regions, touching my name, spoke of opposition. They must be very concerned about what is happening in the middle of the opposition. But it is only a demonstration of their fear, their powerlessness, and their fear. They're just, like, afraid to go to the polls. Because when they go to the polls, they're going to lose because the people are going to evaluate the activities of the Party of Regions. This is how the Party of Regions got used to the saviour, but she found her hair on the stone. And to all those who are as concerned about Kiev as I am, I would like to say that I will see you vote today in favour of the elections in Kiev! So, people, prepare for this power of action, to go out on the street, and today watch your hands as the regionals vote for the elections in Kiev and fear that the capital will develop in a normal and civilized manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u35	Yeah, now let's work. The Carpuntz really is criticizing me. I read article 26. I'll give you my word. Article 26 obliges me at the beginning of the morning and evening plenary sessions: "The Supreme Council's apparatus shall present to the presiding officer at the plenary a list of the national deputies absent from the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on the basis of the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy of the Head, is a stay in the mission and leave. Such a list shall be displayed simultaneously on the monitor of the chairman of the plenary session." I don't have to make any more announcements. We didn't work here for three weeks and wanted to make changes to the Rules, but we didn't. Because it's about the Rules. I'm telling you yesterday and today that the Ukrainian national deputies who are on board are the Head's orders. And there are, on March 20, Ukrainian national deputies on vacations are not present, and, glory be to God, all are healthy, no one is sick. There's no replica, there's no replica on the line. Arsenius Yatzenuk, what do you have? Turn on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u36	Vladimir Vasilovich, welcome, we made a difficult decision with you yesterday, but we finally made the right decision on how to make the schedule for next week. Now I am addressing you as the presiding officer, and I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 2, and not article 26, Vladimir Vasilovich, you have a legitimate duty. "The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports on the results of the registration of the National Deputies."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u37	I did it so that 392 deputies registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, it's my 20 seconds, then it'll be yours. That is why there is a great request. You're not ashamed to call those who don't come to work from the Party of Regions, let the people know their heroes, or they only know how to scream. We're cultural people, we're not gonna yell "stupid."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u39	Let's make a decision and I'll let you know. Replica, Communists. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, speaking on behalf of the faction, insisted that I return to the order of the day for a week on the issue of pension reform. Yesterday, when we voted on the agenda for the week, the subject was present. We have, in the faction of the Company of Ukraine, 1063, which is registered on December 12th, which is considered by the committee and which is supported by the committee on pension reform. I insist that this subject be brought back to the order of the day. Once again, this is the subject that millions of Ukrainian citizens are looking forward to, and we are obliged to respond to these expectations. So the faction insists on the return to the order of the daily Bill 1063 on pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u41	Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! We didn't finish the next election yesterday. Therefore, according to the Rules, we must first conclude yesterday's issue and only then proceed with the consideration of the Kiev election order. Because if we jump through an unfinished matter today, it would be a grave violation of the Rules. The faction of the Party of the Regions requests that yesterday's issue be completed and only then that the issue of elections in Kiev be referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u43	Carpuntz. Carpunz, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich and distinguished journalists, I address you, we have a parliament, we have a public body of the highest legislator, and our policy is made public. Here you are, publicly on Friday, when we came out of the crisis, promised, I ask the journalists to take advantage of their ability and to demonstrate those images where Vladimir Vasilovich clearly promises everyone that this will be the case every day. You're a very respectable person, you're experienced, you're from Donetsk, you're responsible for the words. I'm asking you to answer for your words. Please announce a list of those who have not registered at the registration desks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u45	No, it's not in the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. You have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. Yesterday, we agreed on the first question in this room to consider the appointment of alternate members of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head, and then to continue consideration of the appointment of out-of-court local elections. We agreed, please sign up from the faction one minute at a time. Please sign in. Germany, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u47	Is there a Yemeni? Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u48	Yes. So first of all, I want to point out right away: article number of the Constitution. The word is given to Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u49	Please, Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, you are a worthy man, with great experience, you must be doing what you promise, because you came from the city of Donetsk, you said that once, "Donetsk is not chasing." Now, the truth is, he's gone. Therefore, we ask that the first question be put to the vote and for consideration is the Kiev City Elections, both the city heads and the Kiev City Council. There's nothing to delay the Party of Regions. Clearly, respectable, or more specifically, disrespectful regions that you are losing these elections, no matter when they are given. So don't be afraid, vote, and prepare for what you lose, both the city's head and the city council of Kiev and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u51	Freedom Union, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u53	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u54	Andrew Illenka, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u55	Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u56	[[B in m in s a l in]] Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union advocates considering elections in Kiev first and foremost. Because as those people who are now shouting "fascists" they, you know, when Kiev was occupied by the fascists, there was no such thing in Kiev: the destruction of local self-government, Kiev is ruled by an illegal Howard Popov, whom people have not chosen, whom you, in Kiev today destroyed district councils, today is a deriban, today total corruption thanks to you and the misdemeanors of Chernovsky, whom you wanted to spend on the Supreme Council, and they lost all the districts, regardless of your administrative resources. [[B in m in s a l in]] And what you're yelling at now is, "Fascists," you're yelling at tens of millions of Ukrainians who are demanding compliance with the law, and tens of millions of Ukrainians that your grandparents and ancestors have starved to death! So you yell at them, "Fascists." You're fascists! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u57	The Communist faction. Martinyuk, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm drawing your attention. What you promised yesterday is the right thing to do, and this is in line with the rules of the Rules, that the bills that remained pending on the previous day are being considered the first day. And so today, by the way, the order of the day is formed. But there's one "but." We did not finish our consideration of the previous question. You and I need to finish our consideration of the question of the appointment of the successive elections that we have begun to report, and we have adopted about 20 or 30 decrees, we need to take the rest and finish. Then, according to the Rules, consider issues related to the elections in Kiev. There's no other way. Or if you want, the Supreme Council should make that decision. But this is contrary to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u59	Rooster, Vitaly Call.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u60	Please give the floor to the national deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u61	National MP Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable colleagues and a respected Kyiv community! I am National Deputy Victor Chumak of 214 district, Dniprov district, Kiev. You know, the last five years have been very well remembered by the Chinese. They remember, first of all, the city’s head, which was completely out of touch with the head. They remember his team, which today is part of the race, part of it is in criminal persecution, and part of it is not going to work. They remember the main activities of Kyivrada, which were directed to the land of Kiev and Kiev’s municipal property. They remember stolen roads and long roadblocks, traffic jams for officials who cannot be influenced by the Kyiv authorities, because they are not primarily chosen by the Chinese; they are remembered for the management of an official appointed by the President, who has so far been appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Party of regions, Lukyanov
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yesterday, at the evening meeting of Parliament, we began to consider a number of local elections. In accordance with the Rules, we must conclude our consideration of the previous issue, decide, vote and then move on to the next question. We therefore propose that we complete the consideration of local elections, vote on all necessary decisions and then turn to the question of the question of the holding of elections in Kiev. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u65	All of it. Let's get back to work. I am voting on the draft Order on the Assignment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Revivosian Rural Head (Revieve Village Council of the Kamyan district of Cherkas region) (No.1201-60) -- for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Don't shout, everybody vote. [[10:54:10]] For 288 I'll take the order. The factions. "The Party of Regions" – 156, "The Fatherland" – 51, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" – 33, "Freedom" – 32 The Ukraine Company – 0, non-fractional – 16. The wheat head (Pschenicka Rural Council of the Canow Region of the Cherkas region) (number 1201-61) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:55:00]] For 312 It's been decided. Sagunov village head Sagunov village council of the Cherkas region of Cherkas region) (No.1201-62) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:55:30.]] For 318 It's been decided. Anatolian village head Anatolian Village Council of the Hornish region of the region) (No.1201-63) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:55:59]] For the 320. Decision taken. Valkow village head Valkow village council of the Prilutsky district of Chernigiv region (No.1201-64) is the basis for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[10:56:29]] For 322 Decision taken. Yellow village head Yellow village council of the Seminovian region of Chernigiv Region (No.1201-65) is for adoption as a whole. Vote. [[10:56:58]] For 325 Decision taken. Smoligow village head Smoligow village council of the Ripkin district of Chernigiv region) (1201-66) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:57:28]] For 321 Decision taken. Derevin village head Derevin village council of the region of Chernigiv) (1201-67) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:57:55]] For 329 Decision taken. Antônio village head Antônio village council of the region of Chernigiv) (1201-68) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:58:25]] For 332 Decision taken. The Basilkov city head (town of Vasilków Kyiv region) is to be accepted as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:58:51]] For-162 [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision is not taken. So what you're yelling at, raise your hand and vote. Please, Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u66	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues and high-ranking voters! What happened in the hall now? We've seen the position of the Party of Regions, the criminal, the double-digit position. When they are allowed to conduct elections where they feel they need to, and where they are unable to win, where their criminal authorities are unable to obtain a fair outcome, they block the holding of such elections. Just as they want to do Kiev, so it is now. We insist on voting and there can be no exclusion for one population or for another population. It's a law for all of us. For the Party of the Regions, too. Please revote this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u67	We have a representative from the Kyiv region of the People's Deputy Moskalenko. Please. Moscalenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, means we abide by the law. We had a decision to make to the Supreme Council on the decision on the election in the city of Vasilk. But after that, there was an appeal to the committee and today there is a judicial procedure, where appropriate. Having considered the administrative case before the Vasilkov City Council in the open court, it has been recognized that the plea for recognition and satisfaction has been granted, that the act of acting as Head of the Smooth Tetian was to sign and submit to the Supreme Council a complaint No. 416 concerning the appointment of indemnity elections is illegal, that is, what they have addressed you and to us, to abstain from this vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u69	From the Freedom faction, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u70	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, we've now seen how the Party of Regions applies double standards and it was a trial stone to demonstrate how they would deal with the cyans. There will be a fictitious lawsuit, according to which Popova is recognized as the permanent Gaulier of Januković in Kiev. There will be a vote. The U.S. Freedom Union will no longer vote in favour of any question about the election. Because such double standards are unacceptable. In fact, the real fascism is that they are now usurping power and using force to break the Ukrainian opposition, the Ukrainian community, and the Ukrainian nation. I think it's their animal fear that shows how they saw the opposition of Ukrainians coming out of the street and who will overthrow this criminal authority, this Yanukovich regime and bury it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u71	All that was said by the MPs on the grounds of the vote. Let's move on. There's another faction left, Cliché. Novak? Come on. Turn on the microphone. Novak, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u72	It's all on. Dear Chairman, honourable deputies, we have once again seen examples of the sample voting of the Party of the Regions. Everyone knows that the head of the Vasilkow Council was a member of the Party of the Regions, against which a criminal case was committed and he voluntarily assumed his headship. It is now run by the secretary of the Basilk Council, who is a representative of the same party. In this way we see that when the Party of Regions is not comfortable in giving power, it simply ignores the principles of democracy, parliamentaryism and does not vote for elections. So in that case, we're saying that the Kyiv area showed the gourd of the Party of Regions, and that means that there's not going to be an election in the Kyiv region? As a strike party, we can also make a commitment today, we will not vote for any election decision until the Party of the Regions returns to the polls for Vasilkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u73	The Communist faction. The last faction will speak and move on. All the factions have spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u74	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I once again wish to reaffirm the principled position of the Company's faction. It is that we do not take part in the vote now, on the basis that we require Parliament to consider, as a matter of priority, a decision to abolish pension reform and to restore the retirement age of 55 years for women of 60 years for men. As well as the work experience required for retirement. We protest medical reform and demand that the abolition of medical reform, which is an experience and experiment, be considered as a matter of priority, as well as the abuse of the people of Ukraine. And thirdly, we demand that the entire salary be paid back to the citizens and the penalty be imposed for the non-timely payment, so that the oligarchs pay the workers and workers not to suffer. This is the principled position of the Company's faction, and we call upon everyone to support our position and to inform the voters so that you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u75	I'm voting on the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Alcev City Head (City of Alcevsk Lugansk Region) (No.1201-70) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:05:33]] For-189 [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not a decision, let's move on. New York City (city of Novodnystrovsk) (1201-71) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:06:08]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. I want all the factions to express their thoughts in a minute. We're going to finish this discussion, because I see no decision will be taken today, will we work? Please, Fatherland. I'll give all the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the Turkinov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, opposition factions will not vote in favour of the committee's proposals except for the city of Kiev until we return to the vote on the mayor of Vasilkova. There is no basis for the absence of a vote and a decision on the matter. The court that was discussed is not a final institution. The appeal and the initiative of the Party of the Regions through the courts to block this decision is not implemented today. So I ask you to go back to this vote or to stop voting on the rulings that you are about to announce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u77	Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Today, there is a fact of the court’s decision and your attitude is clear. Do you think I personally, my friends, liked the decision on the so-called third tour and everything that happened after that? But we took that decision. So let's make the decisions of the courts, or we won't get out of this. And what you're doing and creating a precedent without voting for local elections, other councils, we can answer you in the next vote. Please hand over the rest of the time to the People's Deputy Moskalenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u79	Please, National Deputy Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we are setting a precedent today, if even you insist and we decide on the elections, and today there is a court order, these elections will always be sued. A citizen of Ukraine, Sergeyev, appealed to the court for unlawful action in the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u82	And the court ruled: recommend that the Supreme Council refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u83	Please, Freedom. Who? He's a Swiss national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u84	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. The Society, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will be the same now until the time of the vote to refrain from further action. Our position is as follows. The party of regions has provoked the same thing, and I would like to point out what elections will be next. They're afraid of elections in Vasilkov, so they're afraid of elections in Alcevsk. Because the Alcev mining unit sucked everything out of town, and there's the same mess that's happening in Vasilkov today. Today our position is as follows, we demand that we return to the Supreme Council to apply exclusively the same standards. If we're going to the elections, we're going to the elections in all cities, villages and villages. And today's position is just a fear of uncontrollable or substantial communities that will also give the Garbuza Region Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u85	Head of the Zwania Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u86	I'd like to remind everyone that all these early elections, they've all been waiting six months. According to Vasilk’s committee, there was no reason not to appoint an election. I'm asking you not to put the question on the political plane. [[Applause]] If there are any questions about a particular city or a village, we need to look around this village. But the question about Vasilkov, I insist once again, no reason the committee found it, is a question of the hall, but don't put it on the political plane. Why does Alcevsky have to wait now? Because this has passed the election plane for another six months. Because if we cancel the elections now and we don't vote for the elections in Alcevsk, they won't be for another six months. Well, don't make fun of people, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u87	Faction Hit, Vitaly Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you and make a small replica of what can then be sued in the courts, we know and we speak all of us, we know how selective justice works, now we have a selective vote, 117 popular polls, and somehow we'll vote for all of them separately, and then where we don't get the situation, we don't vote for individual factions. We have an offer: we go back to Vasilkov and now we have to assign 117 people to the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u89	Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u90	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, great colleagues! I would like to address everyone with a request not to allow the powers of various branches of power to be mixed. The court cannot recommend any institution, or even more forbid the higher legislative body of the State from making its own decisions. We have to carry out our legislative mandates, and we have to appoint elections. If the court finds a basis, it must continue to act solely within the limits of its authority. So I urge my fellow members from the Party of the Regions to return to the polls now in Vasilkov, to identify and appoint elections in Vasilkov; to return to the vote in Alchevsk, to identify and appoint elections in Alchevsk, because they are our constitutional obligations, responsibilities and debts to the inhabitants of Alchevsk, Vasilkova and finally Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u91	Do you have a word with me, Peter Mikolaiovich? Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u92	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Company's faction proposes and requires the chairman to have us complete our consideration of the matter in accordance with the Rules. This question involves voting specifically from every populated point, where the problem requires just the date of the vote, the election, so that we can look at it definitively. But again and again, I insist that everyone know our faction's position. Indeed, many issues today are not satisfied with the choice of our citizens, for capital prevents those who are trained, who work in the name and in the interests of the people of Ukraine, from choosing those who use authority for personal gain. So here, in the hall, and there's this process going on when they're fighting with each other for who, let's say, land is going to bargain, who's going to give some benefits and stuff. Here's the problem. And the faction just insists that we complete this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u93	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Let's figure it out! Wait! Sit down! I'll give you the information and then we'll figure it out. Have a seat. Don't be nervous. Vasilkov City Court of Kiev [[B in m in s a l in]] Zhavania. Now let's give the information and then let's give the word. Please, Miroshnichenko. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! In fact, we had a difficult situation. On the one hand, we have a court decision that actually shows that we have no record of holding elections. On the other hand, our opposition colleagues demand a vote. What would I suggest? I would like to propose that we postpone consideration of the voting issues now, hold a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council. Find out all the legal reasons and then come back. Now let's look at the election issues in Kiev. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] So that we don't create a tension here that doesn't lead to a balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u95	I can put another vote on Vasilkovsky's city head. I ask to vote in favour of the return to the vote of the Basilkov City Head. Please vote. To return. [[11:16:50]] For-188. The decision is not taken. There is a proposal to ask the regulatory committee to make proposals on these elections, to consider all issues and to make proposals to the regulatory committee. Turn on the central microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I am the secretary of the State Building Committee, the curator of the constituency. I, on behalf of the members of the committee, who, without exception, voted in favour of the election of the city head Vasilkov, I would like to state that there is no reason not to vote now, because all of these decisions that have been discussed today have nothing to do with the elections. The polling procedures for the election of Vasilkov's city head have ended, and all the terms of the indictment have ended. This is an example of abuse of justice, abuse of the law. [[Applause]] When an unknown citizen seems to claim that his rights have been violated and, you see, Parliament should be obliged not to hold an election. It is our duty, honourable members of Parliament, to hold and declare elections. If we do not do our duty before local self - government, it will make us do so in other ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u97	National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I understand that we have three queens in our room who want to be kings, and you're in the middle of a situation. But I have a normal offer for you, and there are real facts. The committee considered the matter and made an appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in February. March 5 is a court decision. And right now, we like it, we don't like it, but we know it. We know about this decision of the court. Perhaps it would also be right for the court that made the decision to ask the committee to consider the issue of elections, taking into account the existence of the decision. And if the committee, after learning the circumstances of this decision, proposes to vote again, we will vote. But now there are two facts. In February it is decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a decision on elections, and in March there is a court decision. Let's settle this question. We're not going to pick on you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u100	Break up the election on other local councils. You know, you don't vote for local council elections. What will be our mood when we consider the question of Kiev? I'm asking you not to pick on it, I'm asking you not to pick on it. And commission the committee to reconsider the question of Vasilkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u101	Turkov, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u102	Dear friends! Today, once again in Parliament, they want to take up his constitutional responsibility to appoint elections. They destroy and amend the Constitution by their courts, deprive the deputies of opposition to mandates! By their courts, they eliminate the opportunity for voters to vote and choose! That's the fascism you're yelling about! Fascism, it's throwing opponents away! Fascism, it's when members of the Party of Regions dispute their bellies and kill their children in pregnancy! That's fascism! We demand to return to the constitutional plane! We demand to vote for all the elections, in all the regions without exception, and not to deprive our electorate, our citizens of the right to choose!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u103	Turn on the central. Mohnik, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u104	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable citizens! Now you see an example of double standards, when a party of regions by raiding methods, by what they learned in the '90s and 2000s, is trying to take into the community, in the community of Vasilkova, the right to choose a city's head, the right to choose a city's head in general. They will do the same in Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Similarly, they offer to do so in the future. Because in fact, their primary goal is not to have any elections. Their main goal is to usurp power for the Yanukovich regime, to put King Viktor Yanukovich in position, and then no self-government, no vote in the community, no vote in anyone. Actually, that's what they're yelling at right now. Because in fact, they today call the Nazis Ukrainians who insist on the implementation of the Constitution and the laws. They call themselves the fascists of the Ukrainians who seek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u105	It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go over the matter to the end and move on to the next question. New York City (city of Novodnystrovsk) (1201-71) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:23:01]] For-59 Sunshine Rural Head (Sonicen Rural Council of the district of the Sumi district) (1201-72) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u106	Volodymyr Vasilovich, it's the election. It's the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u107	I have to go through the question. So, what do we do?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u108	Take it off at all. Because all elections are falling apart, people are not to blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u109	That's what you say. Jelyabov village head (Zelabov village council of the Lower Gory region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:24:01]] For-179 The decision is not taken. I'm putting a 30-minute break in my office for a reconciliation. Please enter the faction manager's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. We're continuing our work. We had a break, so we'll be working till 2:00. I'm asking you to sit down. What are some suggestions? The factions’ leaders considered the issues that arose in us, made decisions, and we were all together. We'll come back now, and I'll make an offer to go back to those questions that didn't get the votes. Come back. Then we'll cancel the decisions we made after the Vasilk City Council and the Vasilk City Council itself. Let's do it. Let's assign the committee today to consider the proposals on. We're going to move on to the city head. That's the offer. So there's an offer to go back, to go back to the question of Basilkovsky's city head, after the vote, to the Alcev city head, to the Novodnystrovsk city head. Three at a time, huh? Three. There is an offer to return to consideration. One at a time. Go back to Basilkovsky's town head. Please vote. What's he doing? Please cancel. Please cancel the vote. Faction leaders, Mikhailo Vasilovich, agreed to return to the hearing. I'll put it to a vote. Return to the consideration of the appointment of the election of the Basilkov City Head. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:14:25]] For 305 We're back. For 305 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote to call off the vote we took on Basilko's city head. Cancel. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have overturned the decision on the Basilkian city head and we give. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please! Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Thus, I understand that the Conciliation Council, in the composition of the MPs, agreed to return to the question of the appointment of elections in those cities and villages that were not supported in the session hall. So you put to the vote, Vladimir Vasilovich, to come back. The constitutional majority, as I understand it, voted in favour of returning. The next step is to put to the vote a draft decree on the appointment of elections in Vasilkov. By the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u112	No, the Conciliation decision had been made by the Committee on the Basilkian City Head to consider the matter at the meeting today and to make a proposal to the committee tomorrow. Please vote for this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take a vote. Turn the Turk on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, regarding the decision of the faction leaders that took place. In fact, it was decided to return to voting in both Basilkov and other cities that had not passed the vote in the hall. So the request to put the vote on others, there, Alcevsk and others who have not been voted on, so that we can now vote on them. And now the committee is gathering and rejecting this decision on Basilkov, rejecting this positional proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u114	We didn't finish the Basilskis. We have to make decisions, cancel them, assign them to the committee to consider them and make suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] There must be a vote for that. I'll bet you a vote. Who is in favour of having the committee consider and make proposals to the Supreme Council by means of the Basilkian City Election Head, please vote. [[12:18:10]] For 216 The factions. Region Party - 164, Fatherland - 15, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 7. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u115	Yes, this is the Conciliation Board of Faction Managers, and I've decided, and I've made an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] If the decision is not made, the order will be given. Let's move on. What buttons don't work? I'm asking you to find out where they don't work. Let's move on. Cancel the decision on the election of the Alcev City Head that we have taken. Go back to voting on the Alcev City Head. Please vote. [[12:20:00]] For 303 Decision taken. And now I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the election of the Alaskan city head (1201-70) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:20:36]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Jacinek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u116	Vladimir Vasilovich, as we said yesterday, we got lost in three pines. There is a further request, first of all for the city of Vasilkova. We don't have a legal basis for not voting right now. David Vážajevich, please go to the rostrum and tell me that you have already held, in fact, a committee meeting, put Vasilks to the vote, vote, and hold the elections, and move on. [[Applause]] Now, here's what's going on. Dear friends, first of all in opposition, you understand what the regionals are doing: they are now taking time not to vote on the city of Kiev, well, here's the problem: two to four. So we need to immediately vote on all the bills and move on to the city of Kiev. David Vajajevic, Vladimir Vasilovich, put this Vasilk and Alcevsk to the vote, and we will vote everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u117	Please, Alexander Sergeevich Efremov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u118	Arsenius Petrovich, I ask you not to trade cards. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed with you on the Conciliation Council and made a decision. Now, by your own decision, you want to cancel the decision of the Conciliation Council, so you can't. That's what you're trying to break up the election in Kiev. I don't know what you're doing. We told you that we are voting for this decision today, and for some reason you're blocking the session room and you don't want us to make any decisions. So seek out the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u119	The Conciliation Council decided on Vasilkovka. The committee is considering today, and tomorrow morning we are discussing the matter. What other problems are there, reverends? [[B in m in s a l in]] Zuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, have not made a decision. Unfortunately, what you agreed to with the faction leaders was not supported by the MPs. Therefore, the decision on Vasilkov is not made. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u121	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk said, "Your Alcevsk." Arsenius, not "you," but "our" Alchevsk, "our" Vasilkov, "our" Lviv, our Donetsk, our Chernigov, everything is Ukrainian. And then when we divide by yours and ours, we wonder why the country is split. My own aunt lives in Prevalski, my mother is from Lugansk, I'm from Chernigov. And each of us here is all ours, it's all Ukrainian. And we have to make choices everywhere: both in Vasilkov and in Alchevsk and in Kiev, because Kiev has been without mayors and without a normal city council. And let us not artificially divide, let us not make the hostages of the political this frail and opposing local authorities and, above all, people. For if we say that Kiev is without head, neither shall the Chernovites be without head, nor Alchewsk without head, nor Basilsk without head.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u123	I beg you, Freedom, Kayda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u124	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable fellow MPs, is a compromise proposal to do this: those issues that are not currently under consideration, they cannot obtain the necessary number of votes, including Vasilk, Alcevsk and other questions, to be moved to tomorrow morning, and now to consider issues that concern the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u125	I'll tell you again, we're not going to move on to the second question. Now we've decided to consider this issue and then move on to the schedule. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! That's the thing. David Vážajevich, when he first started yesterday’s report, said that we had considered all these questions three times on the committee because we had three dates. Believe me, we have already studied three fundamental reasons for this election. The committee does not need to meet today because it will not make any other decision. I'm telling you, he's made up his mind. But since we have just decided to go back to voting for Vasilkov, according to the Rules, it is your duty to immediately put to the vote the question of the appointment of consecutive elections for the city of Vasilkov instead of jumping over the Rules. Be Obedient! Since you said you couldn't break the question in the morning, please follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u127	National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! In the case of the election of the city’s head, Vasilkov, there was only one possible situation. We got the document. Let's take this strictly formally. We got a court order. After the committee's decision. The position of our faction is logical and consistent. Let the new documents be studied by the committee and we'll make a decision tomorrow morning. If the committee decides that there is not enough reason to stop this issue, we will vote in favour of the election. If the committee decides that this court decision has already declared illegal submission, the election of the person responsible for the election, it is likely that another submission will have to be expected. There's no politics here. There's a little bit of a formality here. And in politics, unfortunately, you translate and divide cities into ours and yours. All the cities are Ukrainian. So please focus on your work right now, and don't take up the following questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u129	The Conciliation Board decided that I should put it to a vote: assign the committee to consider the matter today and to consider it tomorrow at the morning meeting, and to continue on the schedule, but those who agreed do not stand by the agreement. Arsenius Petrovich, come here, I give you my word. Let us continue to consider the matter. I'm voting on the draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Polish Rural Head (Polykhiv Village Council of the Theophilic Region) (No.1201-59) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:30:11]] For 171 The decision is not taken. The faction manager is requesting, Alexander Sergiyovich, please. I give the factions my word to everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u130	Now, respectable Vladimir Vasilevich, the whole country can see how the opposition votes. They say that elections should take place in all cities. The Party of the Regions is voting for this. They say the same thing, they do something completely different. It's not reasonable to be in the hall without realizing what they're doing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u131	I am betting on the vote of the Yellow Rural Head of Yellow Country Council of the Semenian region of Chernigiv Region (No.1201-65) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[12:31:27]] For 176 Well, it's written. Chewchenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u132	Look, we have a colleague named Soloshenko who's sitting under the press bed right now. Yesterday, I personally warned him that this bed was being tracked and photographed and video-fixed. He had just voted for himself and his colleague. That's why I want to speak to you personally. The man who does this is three of one. Or this, you know, is also called muscle memory, by habit. Or second, someone asked him to do it and did a bad favor. Or third, it's a deliberate provocation against the Ukrainian Parliament since the delay. To avoid the election in Kiev and other cities. We're making a vote. I call on my colleagues from the Party of Regions, it's time to vote exclusively for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u133	Rudzkowski, please. Rudzkowski, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to you from those voters who are waiting for the election of rural, urban heads, particularly Montenegro. And please, if you, dear colleagues and faction leaders, are going to the Conciliation Board, if you are wasting our time and yours, please come to the session room and keep your commitments. We need today, no matter who likes it, we have to make elections, or we will destroy the entire political process in our state. And regardless of whether you like it or not, they support your party or someone else in this region, we have to make an election. Please, let's clean up the political ambitions and do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u135	Shufrich, please. Turn on Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, there are charges against the Party of Regions that we are allegedly blocking elections in Kiev. Yeah? The fact that you've been blocking the rostrum for two months and not thinking about Kiev is another question. But there's, let's say, a test proposal right now. It's for you. We're getting out of the general package of elections on two local councils: Vasilkov and Alcevsk. And we're assigning the rest. And then we look at Kiev. And now we're going to see if you're interested in Kiev or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u137	The National Deputy of Gorin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I am in charge of voting. Right now, there was a vote, and they immediately said that Soloshenko had not voted like that. Where's the evidence? Yesterday morning, the speaker of Parliament announced who was absent from the meeting. The funnel, the card didn't work, the speaker had it. They said that Lyovczina voted in favour of Gorina. Then there's no evidence. I was a Lyucchin last night. But yesterday my phone was ripped off by my constituents, which I was not at my job. That's why. and all the media have given false evidence. So, first of all, the evidence, then you'll be yelling, voting or not voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u139	I appeal to the deputies, vote in person. Please vote in person. Željabov village head (Zelhabov village council of the Lower Góry region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No.2101-73) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:36:33]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Motovil's Rural Head (Motovil's Rural Council of the Lubar district of Žitomir district) (1201-74) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:37:04]] For 172 The decision is not taken. On the basis of the vote of the Lukyans.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues of the people's deputies, I address the factions of opposition first. What principles now prevent you from supporting rural communities, local self - government. What principles prevent you from taking a step toward meeting people? Why do you now continue to abuse the voters of local councils? What doesn't work? Now there's a clear, clear question. We must support local communities, what is the explanation for your unwillingness to work? Take it and work!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u141	Please, Cliché. Then there's Miroshchenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, you know what, it's all like a theater of absurdity. If there are 226 votes in the majority, let's vote. [[Applause]] If there's not this majority, once again, I want to emphasize this is a fundamental question. Today is a precedent when every person can go to trial and accuse any election, any election, and the same mayor of Kiev, too, we will wait for someone if we don't now, vote for the election in Vasilkov, tomorrow will be a precedent when they turn and cancel the elections in any city. I want to pay attention again, we have to go back and vote on the same issues that were supported by the Self-Government Committee as the factions of the region. There were no comments. Sadly, though, today we received some assignment from above and from some other source.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u144	And it's very strange. Because there were no comments on the committee, but it looks like there was a problem. And to this day, it's very strange when the Party of Regions won't vote for the election in the city of Vasilk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u145	I discovered Miroshnikka and then Chechtov. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u146	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We really advocate not to discriminate against Ukrainian voters. If we adhere to the Rules, we demand to vote in the city of Vasilkov and move forward. We must abide by the law, for today, those who cry out, "Fascists!"...they discriminate against Ukrainians on the principle of "support them or not." That's the first one. The other one. Similarly, we must be consistent and make our own decisions. If the Supreme Council has determined that the facts of a non-personal vote we are returning to the question of re-voting, we must return to the vote again. And please, all that the so-called majority of Communists are doing today is delaying the election process in Kiev. The Chinese won't forgive you, just like the Ukrainians! And "fascists" -- we see who "fascists" are! It is you in the Ukrainian state who discriminate against Ukrainians and violate laws without allowing us to communicate with the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u147	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The representatives of the Arsenia Yatsenyuk faction said they were looking into the latrine in the bathroom and saw something. I suggest that we not go down to such low ground to the Arsenia Yatsenuk faction, not to look into the latrine, but to deal with specific cases. We have hundreds of communities waiting for us to choose the mayors, the council presidents! You're the root of local self-government! What kind of Ukraine are you talking about?Oh, my God! What are you building?Oh, my God! Are you building Hootor in Ukraine or what?Oh, my God! Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! Once again, the Party of the Regions proposes that the Arsenia Yatsenuk faction should stop looking at the latrine in the toilet and take specific action to vote for the election of local government leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u149	Yelled? We're working on it. Ivano-Zolotov village head ( The Ivano-Zolotov Rural Council of the Ternopil Region (No.1201-75) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:42:28]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Let's do some more work and then yell again. The sub-primary village head, the Sub-Primary Rural Council, the Labedin district of Suma Region (No. 1201-76) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:43:02]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 0, Vitaly Calla-2, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 8. I see that those who do not vote do not want to adopt the Law by election the mayor of Kiev and the deputies of Kievrada. It is true and the truth must be told. The Trappian Rural Head, the Trappian Rural Council (Tatarbunar district of Odessa Region) (No. 1201-77) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:44:04]] For-179 I'll give you my word. Zuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Let Ukraine see who is responsible for local self - government and who is opposed. I have the impression that certain deputies do not want to go to Klick's draft decision on the election of Mayor Kiev and the deputies of the Kiev City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u151	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u152	Volodymyr Vasilovich, there are citizens who are distracting you from state affairs. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, you see that in the Party of Regions there are not enough votes to make their own decisions. Parliament is now trapped. What do we offer you? Put to the vote now for the city of Kiev. We will consider the city of Kiev, after the city of Kiev, we will vote on all the city councils and other local self - government bodies that are in the order of the day. And then we'll put Vasilks up for tomorrow morning after the committee meeting. It is the right decision to vote on Kiev, to vote on all the decisions and committee to sit down, and to vote on Vasilks tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u153	Regulation. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not allow me to do this, do not allow it. Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, is an offer: this abuse of the local government itself to print in the media that we have and to give the results of the roll-call vote. Let the political forces explain their political position. Why they allow themselves to abuse local self - government, realizing that by failing to vote for the local elections today, we do not have the right to return to this issue for six months under the Rules. Because in this session we no longer have the right to make decisions on the issue of negative decisions. I believe that after this statement, each of the deputies who didn't even know it is conscious of it and consciously disrupts the local elections. Please support this proposal or put it to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u155	National Deputy Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u156	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Indeed, the abuse of local self - government is the fact that the Party of Regions does its favorite work, it divides Ukrainians into varieties, just as they did in 2004 in order to spread their criminal cards, so today they divide Ukrainians into varieties, i.e. Ukrainians from Vasilkov are forbidden to have their own city head, the Ukrainians of Kiev are forbidden to have their own city head. And that's what they're leading to, because today they have one task: not to vote in the entire election decree in Kiev, so that they can ask questions. And today, the deputy Lukyanov sounded this very line: they want to break the Kiev question to move it for six months and not to look at it at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] So when they talk about fascism today, fascism is the usurpation of power. And that's what they are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u157	Yelled? Let's move on. The Cotusian Rural Head (Cotuzian Rural Council of Terebovljen Region) (No. 1201-78). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:48:31]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Supreme Rural Head (Verhosul village council of the Bilopil district of Suma Region) (No.1201-79). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:49:05]] For 172 The decision is not taken. 172. Kuibishev village head (Kuybishev village council of the Bobrinecki district of Kirovograd) (No.1201-80). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:49:44]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Can we ask the question of self-release of the Supreme Council and vote on it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? I see the majority are gone again. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u158	Vladimir Vasilevich, the whole country has found out who doesn't want to work in the hall. It's pointless to continue this clown. Logically, if you call a recess, we'll gather an advisory board to make a decision. Because there is no work, and there is no point in continuing to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u159	A break? Whether or not to make an announcement today. Not to torture the deputies, but the leaders to gather with us? What suggestions? Please, the Turks. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll set it up now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u160	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I don't understand what the problem is. If you do not have a majority, you cannot vote on the laws, but follow the Rules: put to the vote and the Council will be determined. And don't stop time, please. Put the question to the vote, vote, and let the Supreme Council determine. And you don't have to slow down the process and compromise the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u161	The electorate laughs at such a council. Zhavania. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u162	People's deputy Zhuaniya. I remind you once again that if we don't make decisions, we won't be able to take any more of these choices in this session, and we won't be able to make any more elections in these cities for another six months. So I'm paying your attention, national deputies, regardless of which faction, have to vote for the election, without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u163	Please, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! We're at a blind spot like this. My offer. Let the faction leaders gather, advise on how to get out of this situation. Otherwise the Supreme Council can't work. It is evident that no number of votes is required on all these important issues. Volodymyr Vasilovich, gather the faction leaders, take a break and advise on how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u165	I'm calling a break. Two factions asked for a 30 - minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-20-m0.u166	The morning session is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue the session. Good-bye, everyone.
