ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I'd like the national deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:20]] There were 379 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today we have the birthdays of Ukrainian national deputies Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich, Voropeyeva Yuri Mikolaiovich and Mountain Irina Anatoliyevna. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let's congratulate them and wish them all the best, our nouns. Ladies and gentlemen, on January 3, 2013, the Central Electoral Commission registered the national deputies of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymyrovic, Za Aleksandra Viktorovic and Bódaj Jurija Anatoliyovich, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-election constituency that was included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine Polachenko Yuri Volodymyrovich is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by Ukraine’s Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u3	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zac Alexander Viktorovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by Ukraine’s Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u5	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Blagodir Yuri Anatoliyovich is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the people's deputies of Ukraine with their appointment. [[Applause]] As for the break, I'm about to take a break. Of course, there was no voting procedure. Come on. Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u8	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we discussed the question, the next day, of the roll-call vote, which is very important for our future work. I'd like to ask you that after the break, after the announcement of the respective applications, you should give us a list of people's deputies who have not registered on the registration tables and through the Secretariat to block the cards of those national deputies who are not in the room today. And I would very much like to ask you to give them a name. If these national MPs are involved in the process of our work, their cards can be unlocked. Thank you. I hope that what we agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council will be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u9	The Secretariat, I ask you to prepare such materials. Let me make an announcement! In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as with the minutes of the parliamentary faction "Freedom" meeting of 18 December 2012, I inform you that in connection with the election of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kosulinski Ruslán Volodymirovic, the deputy head of the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" is elected as the national deputy of the Ukrainian faction of the All-Ukrainian association "Freedom" of Kadu Aleksija Petrovic. ( [[Applause]] Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to a personal statement, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Marmazov Eugène Vasilovich as part of the Communist Party's parliamentary faction. More announcements. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the Interfractional Union of the People's Republic. The heads of the inter-fractional MP 'Lvivščina' have elected the national deputies of Ukraine Seh Irina Grigorovna and Kubov Stepan Ivanovich. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh interfractional parliamentary association to support the Canonic Orthodox Church of Ukraine, as well as the interfractional "International Anti-Fascist Front". Head of the interfractional parliamentary association to support the Canonic Orthodox Church of Ukraine and the interfractional "International Anti-Fascist Front" of Ukraine’s elected national deputy, Koleschenka Vadim Vasilovic. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with paragraph 15 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two factions have requested a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. That is why I declare such a break. Are we going to take a break or are we going to make a statement? Break? A break of 30 minutes opens. At 10:45, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. The break's over. I'm asking the factions, who will act? Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u11	Honorable Members of Parliament! As an opposition, we demand the majority and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include in the agenda the issues that are important to Ukraine and the Ukrainians today. For Ukraine, it doesn't matter who will be, what will be the name of the National Bank of Ukraine, whatever the situation is, Janukovic. For Ukraine, the most important thing today is Ukraine's introduction to a European course, it's European integration, it's the liberation of political prisoners, it's the ability of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko to participate in the Ukrainian political process, it's freedom for Ukraine. We demand that we include in the agenda: First. The issue of Ukraine's course for European integration and the adoption of an appropriate decision. The other one. We demand the inclusion in the agenda of the decriminalization of articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code that were born back in Stalin and condemned by Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. And the third. We demand the inclusion in the agenda of Ukraine's Amnesty Act, introduced by three opposition factions, which frees both Julius Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko from political persecution, as well as thousands of Ukrainians who suffer from illegal criminal persecution. Our demands are not satisfied. The Conciliation Council did not vote on the adoption of the agenda. In view of this, we demand that these bills be included in the agenda, voted on, and this will allow Parliament to work. In particular, I would like to point out in the personal voting procedure. So far, the Council-3 system has not been included, which allows only one national MP to vote and only for himself. We continue to insist on the implementation of the basic constitutional norm, namely, personal voting. The demands of opposition are the demands of millions of Ukrainians who voted for us. We demand that we comply with our requirements. Put the bill in order of the day, and then Parliament will work. It's not like he's gonna work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a meeting of the Conciliation Council was held, and an agenda was set for today’s meeting. These questions were not included. These questions came up this morning and are now being announced. So I announce a break, and the faction leaders of all, please come into the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u13	At 4:00, we'll continue our work in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u14	Deputies! We're continuing our work. Please calm down. I would like to announce the announcements, honourable deputies. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules and according to personal claims are reports of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies, Bkohlidir Yuri Anatoliyovich, Zaza Alexandra Viktorovich, Polachenko Jurija Volodimirovic, as part of the Party of the Regions' Deputies. Let me inform you of the results of the consultations of the leaders of all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll brief you and give the faction leaders one minute to explain. We've approved a plan for tonight's meeting. This plan includes such issues as the permanent termination of powers, these are personnel issues, and this is the work on drafts. We need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the 12 drafts that we distributed to you in the morning. We added five more bills that we need to consider today and tomorrow at the sessional sessions. Five bills were added: 1099, 1206, this is about amending the Criminal Code (the draft law of the Swedish People's Deputy) and the Amnesty Act in 2013 (the draft of the People's Deputy of Cosem? It's a quinceaña. We added three more decrees to support the European integration aspirations of the Ukrainian people and to establish an Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. We need to consider the issue of ratification. We had, in the morning, seven draft laws on this issue. We need to assign elections, there's 72 polling stations. Next comes the renaming of the villages. And we need to approve the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council. These are the main questions we've identified. The first question we're going to consider is the inclusion question, the list of issues that are proposed for inclusion in the agenda. I called you. I'm asking you to sign in from the faction for one minute. Yeah, on the show from the place, the "Freedom" union, who's going to perform? Mohnik?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u16	Please, Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Mr. Head! Well, as we agreed, we'd like to make a list of those deputies that are missing right now. In four hours, I think it's clear who won't come today and lock or remove those deputies' cards. In addition, we have many votes, perhaps some of the issues that we will consider will be summarized. The vote will continue today, and tomorrow it will continue. So we would ask you to sound the list and remove the cards of those MPs who are not there so that there is no conflict. Well, one more question. We did say that on the Conciliation Council, but somehow we didn't figure it out, so with those five districts about the election to the Supreme Council? Moreover, today we will consider the issue of elections to local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u18	As for the five districts, we were appointed yesterday at the Conciliation Council. There is a Constitutional Court, it will give its interpretation, and then we can make a decision with you. As far as I'm concerned. In the morning, MPs registered. I've got a secretarial data like this. The national deputies of Ukraine who are on vacation are Sobolev and Zubko. Next. The people's deputies don't have a ship. And the patients, according to the secretariat, don't mean anything. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Only the deputies who are in this room should vote. Faction, please. It's a faction recording. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u19	Oleg Medunica, Fatherland faction, 157 constituency. Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u20	Please, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u21	Following the insistence of opposition to the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following laws will be incorporated. First. The decision on Ukraine's European integration is one of the key documents necessary for the Ukrainian State to become part of the European Union. The other one. The Act on the Decriminalization of Articles 365 and 366, which unlawfully motivated convicted Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, and these Stalin articles are excluded from the criminal law of Ukraine. And the third. This is Ukraine's Amnesty Act 2013 which will allow not only Timoshenko and Lucenko to be released, but also thousands of Ukrainians who suffer illegal criminal persecution. These bills should be considered on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u22	Please, who's going to be the striker?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u24	Please. People's MP Klitschko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, I would like to point out once again that the Supreme Council, unfortunately, continues to fail to perform its functions and does not work as it should work. The head of the Supreme Council has repeatedly stressed that there should be a personal vote. Once again, I would like to remind you not to go back to voting, the so-called piano or piano, when MPs run and vote for people who are not in the room. That's the first one. Secondly, I am sure that today we should vote on the law on cooperation between Ukraine and. European integration and the bill on elections, local elections, must be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u26	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u27	The local election and the election of Kiev’s head and Kyivrada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u28	From the Party of Regions, who will be speaking? Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. The faction of the Party of the Regions is very pleased that it has been able to set up a constructive work for Parliament. We welcome such approaches by the Governing Body to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and we recommend that we ignore the noise of political preschools. This will pass and Parliament will work peacefully, constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Communist faction, who will act? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u31	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. It's a good thing you found some kind of understanding. Sadly, though, it is contrary to the rules of the Rules. And our faction, of course, cannot support similar approaches to legalizing. When we vote tens of two bills -- that's totally out of line with the spirit of parliamentaryism. The factions that are willing to do this are their business. Because we would be willing to give our votes and support for most of the bills. But there are also bills that we cannot vote for political reasons. And that's why our faction won't be taking part in this, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u32	Thank you. I'm asking the non-fractional, national MP Oleg Lazko. One minute, please. Turn on the can microphone. Where are you holding the card?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u33	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, non-factional. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's session proposes to include a government bill number 1117 called "To amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment and indexation of pensions." So I'm paying attention to MPs, to those who will vote in favour of this bill to include it in the agenda, that this bill provides for a substantial reduction of the pension for military personnel, by amending articles 14 and 37 of the Pension Insurance Act for persons released from military service. And if we vote in favour of incorporating this bill into the agenda and supporting the reduction of the pension for military personnel, then let those who voted in favour of this law go and tell the military officials why they take the money pension. I call on my fellow MPs not to vote in favour of Bill 1117 on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u34	Thank you. Let's move on to the inclusion section in the agenda of the day session. And I would like to remind once again the distinguished national deputies that at the Conciliation Council of the MP factions that took place today, we agreed on a list of issues that need to be included in the agenda of the session. In particular: the issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Code, the application of amnesty in 2013, the statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Ukraine's integration into the European Union. So let us go to voting on this list of laws. People's deputies, please vote. Members, please vote. [[16:16:51]] For 318 "For" – 318, "against" – 0, "retained" – 1, did not vote 73. A total of 392. The factions, please. Sit down, I'll give you a vote, we'll figure it out now. Region Party 174, Fatherland 63, Vitalia Klicka, 36, Freedom 35, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 10. Once again, I ask the deputies to vote on all their cards. On the basis of the vote, Dragnibok and Yacenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u35	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, let's work seriously. This is the Ukrainian Truth portal where they printed a document, a photo paper about the missing MPs and those who should be in control of the Party of the Regions. In particular, I quote that Yuri Sameilenko, a regional deputy, is obliged to control that Vladimir Misik and Vladimir Olijnik voted in favour of Denis Omelanovic and Irina Brežen. Since they're not in the hall and the facts have been fixed, we ask you today, we're going to vote today, please, we're asking you very much to resolve the issues with the impostors, with the villains, with the violators of the Constitution, who, despite what we're constantly talking about, we're stressing, and the whole world of us is making fun of us, and they're still standing firm for their colleagues by the faction. Please, please, for the sake of the constructive work of Parliament, set up a normal process of work in the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u36	Jacinek, please. Then there's the oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u37	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you know about this, but I hope you find out right now. The European Court of Human Rights, in its decision yesterday, acknowledged that the crackdown in the Ukrainian Parliament was a violation of international law. This has already come to the point that the European institutions are telling us that the Ukrainian national deputies are violating the Ukrainian Constitution. Just before the Final Clues Down and the Kings, their cards were voted on. I don't know which of these three are alive as a national MP and pushed the buttons. We appeal to you, your Honourable Head of Parliament, if you want Parliament to work, as required by the Constitution and the people of Ukraine, ensure personal and personal voting. Under other circumstances, Parliament will be blocked again until the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution, namely: personal voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I invite you, as we agreed, to vote only with your cards. As far as the Final One is concerned, the Final One is sitting, voting alone. I'm asking you again, let's not play. I'm asking Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, do not give in to provocation. I say again, you can pick up a transcript or a transcript about the vote and see, I vote personally, I vote for no one else. The Party of Regions has always adhered to the Rules and urges others not to provoke the situation, not to oppress it, to vote, and you need to personally do as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u40	Anyone else on motive? All on the basis of the vote? People's deputy Karpunts, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! There's a procedure and you don't have to invent anything. We checked in on the desks today, you have to report who registered and who didn't. You'll read it if the person present in the room now stands up to confirm it. And the cards of those MPs who don't exist should be blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u42	In the morning, I reported how many deputies were registered. Last, the Lukyan people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! We've had a lot of talks today, and we've been looking for compromise, and now it's been found. There's a proposal: let's put the question to the vote and vote. What's more, I'm addressing everyone here, press your buttons, vote for yourself, and let's move away from this conflict situation. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u44	Let's check on the question. Please, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u45	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing those who are sitting on the left and right side of the hall, especially the representatives of the Party of Regions, the chairman and others: I'm asking that we don't get involved in these political provocations that we are witnessing. Everyone here is extremely honest, and they are raising us to vote for. I refer to you, the so-called opposition, and especially to you. We've got a strike faction, there's no Paul Rosenk in the session room, but his card. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Then I apologize. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u46	Deputies! Well, we are. Rosenka, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u47	Well, Paul Rosenco, strike faction. "They married me without me," as they say. So thank you again for mentioning my last name on National Radio and Radio Council and the Communist faction for my pear. But I'm reporting that I'm registered in the morning according to the Rules and the registration tables, and the registration card. That's why I'm here, I'm working, just like the whole "WILL" faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine works.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask you to vote in person only with your card. We turn to the draft Order on the Liberation of Sergei Hennadiovich Arbuzov of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (No. 1199). A draft decision from this question is given to you. I give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanović Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine filed for the release of Sergio Hennadiovich Arbuzov from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u50	Are there any questions? Please sign up. Five minutes to ask. I'm Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head! Mr. Miroshnichenko does not appear to be standing on the rostrum. And we'd like to see the former head of the National Bank of Ukraine right now and ask him a few questions. First. Where did the $14 billion in gold reserves go in two years? The other one. Why is there an increase in credit rates as deflation, that is, prices go down in Ukraine today? Third. Why does half of the foreign bank capital flee Ukraine because of such policies of the National Bank of Ukraine? We demand a report from the former head of the National Bank of Ukraine with answers to all the questions raised by the opposition. Where is the person being released?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u52	Arsenija Petrovich, the point is that, according to the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules, we are now considering the submission of the President of Ukraine. This submission is presented to you by the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, and you have a way of voting to determine whether you will support it or not. In the discussion provided for in the Rules, you can express your point of view. That's what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u53	Any more questions? A peaceful, united “Freedom. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u54	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We know that according to the Rules, and thank you for reminding us that we can't or we don't have the opportunity to discuss it, but we remind you that the gold reserves have fallen into a third, which is completely unclear, according to the President's submission of $686 million only in the third quarter left the financial market. And I really want to hear the author of the famous bill about 15 percent of the tax. Let the man come say, tell, explain his position, for this man is a public man, and he must be responsible for all the actions he does. Unfortunately, for Ukraine, this person is already beginning to be the first vice-premier, that is, the further inventions of man in this position are unknown to us, and we really want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u55	Thank you for the questions, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the drafters of the Tax Bills 15 and then 10 percent are in this room. Sub? The National Bank was not the subject of the legislative initiative. As far as your desire to hear the National Bank report is concerned, it is legally provided, but is not related to the submission by the President of Ukraine of the release of the Head of the National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u56	Lapina, national MP, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Leapina, United Fatherland. I point out that we are looking not just at the removal of someone from office, but at the heads of the National Bank of Ukraine. In fact, his business climate has worsened in Ukraine, and we believe that part of his responsibility is directly on this issue. And it's not just bank capital, it's actually investment capital that's escaping from Ukraine. Unforeseeable policies, incomprehensible issues of inflation. What managed to sustain inflation was to achieve deflation -- in fact, how to stop the bleeding by suffocating the patient, about this kind of policy was in the National Bank. We can't ask any questions to the President or to the head of the National Bank, because you, Mr. Jury, unfortunately cannot answer the question of how you've achieved deflation and why capital is escaping from Ukraine today, and it's bypassing Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Xenia. I'm really not going to take responsibility for reporting for the National Bank. I'm just introducing the President of Ukraine. But in order for me to tell you that Mr. Arbouz expressed his willingness to speak and to answer all the questions that national MPs have. But the law is the law. And the Supreme Council Rules Act does not provide a statement or report to the head of the National Bank at the time of his release. That's why we're looking at the submission of the President of Ukraine. And as for the report, I think there's a representative of the National Bank who, I hope, today will be the head of the National Bank, and he'll be able to answer the question with you when he embraces this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Time's up, sit down. Is there a need to discuss this issue, or will we vote? Shall we vote? Write the factions one minute from the factions to the discussion. Write it down. Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u60	Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Today we are discussing the question of the liberation of Arbusov. Very many remarks were made at his address from the state of opposition. So I think it would be right if we put this question to a vote and the opposition votes in favour of the release of Arbusov. Because if you have so much critical to him, so to speak, let's vote and that's all, we'll close the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u61	That's a good offer. People's Deputies of the Marches, the Freedom Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u62	The word Kaidi, I give the word to Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking, the issue was being considered, and Yuri Romanovich, who had just reported, was probably not much. Because we kept the main reserve of questions for Sergey Arbuzov, which was promised here by Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko to bring to the session hall who would be willing to answer questions. And I'm sure half as much as half the session room has a question to ask the former head of the National Bank. And on the question, what were the wages paid for, or sometimes did they print money, where between 20 percent and 30 percent of the gold stock and other things, etc. So clearly we're going to be asking questions and drawing to criminal responsibility possible if the facts are confirmed, in fact, the disappearance of part of the gold currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u65	"Klitzka Vitalia" by the people's deputy, Mathios.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u67	Rosenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. For those who say that we do not need a report from the National Bank today and that such a head who can report it cannot report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is clearly stated in the Constitution that the appointment and release of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine is the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This person is the subordinate and accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, the President has the right to appoint him to any position in the government. But this does not mean that the head of the National Bank of Ukraine can thus escape responsibility for his previous actions and reporting on his previous activities. And there's a lot of questions about how to run the National Bank, all of them, starting with the gold reserves and closing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u70	. and end up building bases for the staff of the National Bank in the crisis we're talking about today. So the principle of the UDA faction today is that we don't have the right to move to personal issues in the National Bank of Ukraine without hearing the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is today Sergey Arbuzov. So we ask our offer to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u71	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u72	I'd like to give Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u73	Please, Jacenjuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u74	The President-in-Office, in accordance with article 207 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, is necessarily linked to the discussion of the results of the activities of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine in order to assist the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why we think that the National Bank of Ukraine is not a private bank that it's become in the last two years. So we demand answers to clear questions. First, where are the $14 billion in gold reserves? The second is why, in case of zero inflation, credit rates in Ukraine are 20 percent? Third, who and on what grounds planned to introduce a 15 per cent tax on poor Ukrainians who would sell their small dollar savings? The fourth is why half of the external bank capital from the West.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u76	Why is half of the Western capital invested in Ukraine escaping from the banking sector? Fifth, what's the national currency exchange rate? Sixth is what is the central bank going to do with the purpose of curing monetary policy? Seventh -- what monetary policy will be the central bank in 2013 and how it will be different from the last two years. And lastly, whether or not there will be a program with the International Monetary Fund and what kind of beacons will be on the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u77	Thank you. Zuravsky National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the question of the release of Nazbank's Head does not provide for a report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, purely from a legal point of view. And you don't have to waste your time. Please put this question to the vote, it's perfectly clear to the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u79	The discussion is over, I ask the deputies to prepare for the vote. Vote each person in person with your cards. I am voting on the draft Decision on the release of Sergio Hennadiovich Arbuzov from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (No. 1199) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:38:46]] For 217 For 217, against 42, held 40, did not vote 94, only 393. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 179, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 8. On the basis of the vote, I ask for the reasons for the vote. Miroshenko. Miroshenko is the second. Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u80	Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask to return to the vote because not all colleagues have been able to vote. Oh, that's right. I call on opposition representatives to comply with the Constitution! Because you know that it is impossible for Sergey Hennadiovich to combine the position of head of Nazbank with First Deputy Prime Minister. Let's follow the Constitution as you call it! Please support the President in his application! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u81	National Deputy Sas. Sit down, I'll give you my word.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention to the standard quoted by Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, part three of article 207, which provides for discussion. And I would like to tell you that the discussion, in accordance with the 30th article of the Rules, is being done in full or in short, 31st. If you make a decision, and the minimum amount of time you're given is 2 minutes. And I would like to take this opportunity to speak to the President of the Supreme Council, and let him be called the rule of law, which allows us to go back to the rejected issues. And Zarubinski, here they tell me, voted out of two! Let Miroshnichenko show me the rules of the Rules and show me where the Rules contain the possibility of returning to a rejected vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u83	Miroshenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u84	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Even when 217 pitiful votes were cast by the Party of Regions for the removal of Sergio Arbuzov from the post of Head of Nazbank, they were honest. Journalists are on the phone, and deputies Shufrich and Koleschenko voted in favour of their colleagues in the newspaper. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a disgrace! And I am very grateful to the journalists! Let's work together to control compliance with the Constitution! I'd also like to give Oleg a word to the Deleteman for the rest of 30 seconds. Thank you. Let's get him some more.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u85	Thank you, please. No, no, no! Please, Rosenka, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u86	Dear people's deputies! Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We firmly deny the return to the vote because the person who proposed it was not named specific names of people who he felt were unable to vote in favour of the decision. And in general, we have no other way of putting this question down peacefully, let the National Bank of Ukraine prepare for the report in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is where Sergey Arbuzov, head of the National Bank, has been reporting for his activities for the past two years, and the national deputies will be able to ask him a question and comment on it. Let us now not strain the situation, but vote in favour of the report of the National Bank of Ukraine, as required by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u87	Thank you. There was an offer of Peacekeeper. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put the question back to the vote, not the candidate. I put the question back to the vote. Please vote. [[16:44:00]] For 221 The questions are discussed. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down, calm down, let's keep working. The draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine in the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire and cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the United Nations Operation (Registration No. 1192) is being tabled. The first deputy minister is given the floor for this report. Who's gonna report it? Who will report from the committee? Please report to the committee, Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the mandate of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine reviewed the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a national contingent to Ukraine in the operation of the United Nations of Côte d’Ivoire and cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire. It is considered that the adoption of this law will have a positive impact on Ukraine’s international authority, strengthen our country’s position as a trusted member of the United Nations, strengthen further cooperation with that organization in the area of peacekeeping, and allow military personnel to maintain high-level professional skills and gain valuable experience in international operations. It should be noted that the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire is being carried out in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1528 of February 27, 2004. According to UN Security Council Resolution 2062 of 26 July 2012, the UN mandate was extended until 31 July 2013. Funding for expenses associated with the participation of a peacekeeping contingent in an international operation is being done from the State Budget of Ukraine, with further compensation for these expenses at the United Nations. No additional expenditure is foreseen from the State Budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has no legal objection to the adoption of this bill. As a result of the committee's consideration, a unanimous decision was taken to introduce the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend approval of the President's decision, specifying in the bill the duration of the Ukrainian peacekeepers' operations in Côte d'Ivoire by 31 July. As well as providing necessary security measures, increasing the number of weapons and security. In view of the above, I propose to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine and the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u89	The question is to a coconspirator? Please sign up. Questions from MPs. I'm asking you from the Vitaly Klitschka faction, Agafonova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin, Faction Impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u91	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u92	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. In fact, we should listen to Minister Lebedev, who should report to the people's deputies and the people of Ukraine, from which such social, political and, above all, economic motives should we send our boys abroad to die. In Côte d’Ivoire, our boys will defend the interests of the oligarchs, not the people of Ukraine, because the traffic with this country in connection with our presence there is 150 million and its structure (think!) – fertilizer and metal. So we're going to throw away the lives of our citizens so that they can pave the way for the goods that are produced in businesses that belong to our oligarchs. We're sending the boys to their death to get the President on the international stage another diplomatic alert. Our party, the faction considers it unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u93	Finish it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u94	And the next. On the committee, we asked the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to report to the committee, and then to the Supreme Council on the existence of a clear strategy for promoting the economic interests of our country where our boys represent the interests and carry out a peacekeeping mission. It turns out that we sent them to Macedonia, and now the Macedonians are repairing our roads, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u95	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u97	It's strange to hear, my dear fellow. Yesterday you didn't mention the oligarchs, yesterday you didn't send anyone to die, but you raised your hand, your voice for the approval of the project that we're looking at today. And once again, I emphasize, we've done twice in Côte d'Ivoire. Today, some 50 countries of the world are carrying out this mission in this country. Among them are European countries: France, Poland, Romania, Moldova, Ukraine; North American countries: Canada. Well, thank God we're not on a mission in China or Australia yet. This remained where we had the privilege of not doing our Fatherland’s work. We are acting in accordance with the United Nations Security Council decision, and the Supreme Council has emphasized its own and only its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u98	Thank you. Leonov, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk. Yuri Orotyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u100	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u101	Yuri Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Yesterday, indeed, the committee supported the deployment of our peacekeepers at the request of the UN Security Council. The only question I want to ask you again, how will the safety of Ukrainian soldiers be ensured, and are the fighting machines they use capable of fighting in those conditions? And I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u102	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u103	As in 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u104	We need to invest for a minute. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u105	As in 2011 and 2010, one of the requirements of our committee was for the Ministry of Defence to provide reliable protection and protection for our contingent. This requirement was fulfilled, and this was highlighted by developments. To date, the General Staff, and today they've reported, calculated forces and resources, both professional military and heavy technology, for deployment to Côte d? Ivoar to strengthen our contingent's security guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Bondarenko National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u107	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Mr. Alexander, you've given examples of European, North American, other countries sending their contingents to areas such dangerous military, where there's a UN decision. But those countries have provided internal legislation for the social protection of those who go there, for the protection of their pension rights, for their rights as disabled persons, but there are usually so many who return there. As a person who is constantly faced with problems of receiving such citizens, I will note that from Mozambique, from Egypt, Vietnam, from other conflict zones, hundreds of people walk without having an apartment without the protection of a hospital without pensioning normal security. Therefore, our participation at the level of the European country today does not protect our people from the hardships they face after their return. So I don't think it's worth supporting these decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of the Sixth Council has passed the Act on Additional Guarantees for the Social Security of Military Workers involved in Peacekeeping Operations. And by this law, we have managed to raise the financial security of our military personnel to the level of virtually all European countries, while retaining those financial security salaries in Ukraine. But I want to agree with you. Any military business, wherever it's going on, is a risk. And the risk is great for our military. They take that risk, they know what the country is and what its authority is. We passed all the necessary laws. Our business today is to keep them under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u109	Thank you, have a seat. Deputies! There is a suggestion that the discussion should be conducted in a simplified manner. May I put it to a vote? Anyone for such an offer, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[16:56:38]] For-191 Decision taken. It's a procedural question. I'm asking you to sign up, two for, two against. There are two men on the way out of the rostrum. Leonov, Freedom Union. Orphan Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u110	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, I would like to highlight two points. First. This year the Ministry of Defence is underfunded by almost 60 percent. The country’s orderly, today’s regime is deliberately destroying the power structures, destroying the national security of the country in an orderly manner. We all see how all the power structures, the defence structures, are headed by people who were recently Russian citizens and were born far north of Ukraine. We have another problem as well. That our troops do not have the capacity to modernize in connection with systematic underfunding, they do not have the capacity to conduct training. Ukraine, therefore, has reduced the number of Ukrainian peacekeepers over the past three years. If we were in the tenth place in the world a few years ago, we are now 38 places in the world. Today, participation in our peacekeepers is one of the few opportunities to have real combat experience. Because the army, it has to be ready to protect national security and defense. Then we have to demand that our troops be properly protected, we have to demand that the funds that are coming for this, they go for the upgrade of helicopters, because these helicopters are no longer able to carry out combat missions, modernize their impact force, so that Ukrainian military personnel get adequate social protection and proper wages. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom supports the request, I stress once again, this is a request from the UN Security Council. Because if we don't make this decision, the state has to allocate millions of dollars to reblock these troops to Ukraine, and these military personnel will be out of wages without social guarantees. So our faction will vote and support the decision of the UN Security Council to send our helicopters to the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u112	Andrew Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, if you look at today's issue, I think it's important to our Ministry of Defense that it's question number one. Today, the military power of our nation is widely known here in this room, and I would hate to criticize those who serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but participate in hostilities, and believe me, as a participant in the fighting in Afghanistan, I know the situation that is currently taking place there -- it's a part in the fighting, because firearms have been used there since 2011. And if anyone hasn't served in the army, I'll let you know that the most dangerous part is for combat helicopters, which is, combat helicopters represent Ukraine. Instead of guarding machine guns like some countries, they operate as part of a helicopter contingent with helicopters. Yeah, well, there had to be a secretary of defense who would come and say that, friends, I as a defence minister guarantee you that every person will come back to Ukraine alive, because we analyzed and know that in the neighborhood our colleagues are Pakistan, who, by the way, brings out his contingent, Bangladesh, which, by the way, brings out its contingent, China, which, by the way, brings out its contingent, is the countries that are scaring our peacekeepers. We have a 100% guarantee of the safety of every Ukrainian citizen's life. The Minister of Defense would have to tell us that we are not making this decision for the first time. More specifically, we've never voted for it or voted for it, but the majority voted. I want to ask you where the money is and how much money did we get? We're again funded from the state budget, and they're telling us, "We're going to get our money back." How much did they pay back? And how much of that money went to the social security of our soldiers and officers that were there? So, my friends, we don't turn what's happening in the history of Arbus and the present history into a propaganda of what's going on in Parliament. Such questions must be considered in the presence of the entire government, the minister of defense, and they must be responsible for this decision that is being made. We do not vote in favour of sending a contingent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, National Deputy, Party of Regions, Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to remind in our discussion that Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, has adopted a number of laws, including the Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace and security operations. And Ukraine sees its participation in international peace and security operations as an essential component of foreign policy. That's the first one. Ukraine has adopted the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy, which has clearly formed the strategic objective of integrating our nation into both European and world economic space. And what matters is that today Ukraine is working on all the elements of a new national security strategy that was approved last year. So there is a proposal to support as a question that is higher than internal political competition in Parliament, as the basis for Ukraine's strategy for building a modern state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u117	Thank you. Martinuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Well, I would ask, I don't have two minutes' notice, because I didn't sign up, but I have a regulated right to speak from the faction, which is one minute, as the predecessor should have had one minute. That's the first one. The other one. Vladimir Vasilovich, I address you and I address all my colleagues, but first of all, I address you as the Head of the Supreme Council. If we're going to go from the first days of work to the fact that those reporters who are determined by the President of Ukraine won't report the bills, we're not the Supreme Council, we're not the Parliament. And so I have a question: why wasn't there a reporter appointed by the President of Ukraine on the rostrum today? And we started with a committee report. This report needs to be done by the Minister of Defense. That's the first one. The other one. Those who shouted today that they would not vote and direct, let them remember how a few years ago Iraq had been directed and voted and said that it was necessary to vote, that is, be consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u119	Thank you. First Deputy Minister Alexander Mikolayovich is present in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over, so let's move on to making a decision. Members, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to send a national contingent to Ukraine to participate in the UN Operation and cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the UN Operation in Côte d'Ivoire (Registration No. 1192) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[17:05:52]] For 266 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 4, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 34, Ukrainian Company - 31, non-fractional - 13. The law is passed. On the basis of the vote, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I understand we've made this decision, it's the right decision. But it was accepted by taking into account the additions and refinements of the committee. This mission will continue until July 31, 2013, the first addition. And secondly, the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff and other of our offices will ensure the safety of our peacekeepers. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u121	We supported the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u122	Thank you! For the protocol, it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u123	Dear people's deputies, we're working on it. According to the Constitution, according to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich, wrote an application for parliamentary powers. The question does not need to be included in the agenda. You have been given a corresponding draft of the Decree. We have already considered this issue in the plenary session on December 25, 2012. But we did not have enough votes to make a decision. Therefore, it is suggested that we return to the matter. I'll put it to a vote. I ask you to take your seats because I am putting to the vote the 1009th draft – on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy Prasololova Igor Mikolaiovich for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote the deputies, please. [[17:09:14]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland – 1, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 31, non-fractional – 8. We violate the Constitution of Ukraine. On the basis of the vote, please. Lukyanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! You know, there's been such a lively discussion right now that we haven't been able to press all the buttons, there's a request to go back to this question and put to the vote the question of going back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I ask everyone to sit down, not to interfere with each other's work, I ask you to sit in your seats, how much can you raise each other? Let's work. Word to the national deputy Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, non-factional. I voted last time for the suspension of the parliamentary powers of Prasolovo's colleague, and I am voting now because this is provided for in the Constitution. I refer to my colleagues, to those who don't vote, dear friends, respectable fellows, let's not follow the politics of double standards in this room. Right now you're yelling at someone who's pushing someone, yeah, it's a violation of the Constitution, but at the same time the two mandates of a minister and a deputy, that's a violation of the Constitution. And so, if we're in favour of the Constitution, in all its parts, not just selectively, when it's supposed to be political relevance. So, Mr. Head, I think we should go back to the question, vote and make a decision in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u127	Thank you. Blacksmith, please. National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear friends! I would like to point out that we do not have a return to vote in the Rules of Procedure, we voted, and next time we can put this question in the next session. That was the case with all the previous questions. Either let's change the rules, or let's do it. We can change the Rules, there are most votes for it, but if there is a rule, let's follow this rule. Three weeks from now, the next session begins, we can go back, we can decide, both on the National Bank, and on other personnel issues. Of course, man cannot be there and there. Then the matter must be resolved within the framework of the law in force. As for responsibility, responsibility rests, not on opposition MPs, but on MPs, who are of the majority who have not been able to attend today’s meeting, and thus have been overthrown. Now, please, take care of your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u129	Igor Miroshnichenko, then Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! Mr. Head! I want to tell everyone who's forcing MPs today and putting them to a stand, as if the Constitution obliges us to vote for it. There is no such situation in the Constitution! If we vote, we have the right to choose one of three buttons. That's why. That's the first question. The second question. There aren't enough votes, so let Mr. Prasolov take the Smoker with him now and come back and go to work in Parliament. Otherwise we'll raise questions about his compatibility, because he's breaking the law really. And that's the last thing I want to say. Thank you, journalists. A party of regions continues to talk about honest voting in a personal way, but instead, they are involved in buttoning. Shavaryan voted for Prodivus the previous time, and Levchenko voted for Kya. Society! Let us control these dishonest deputies who, instead of those sitting in the Maldives, are now pressing the buttons! This is the Constitution, and this is honest MPs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u131	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I would like to address those who speak very much about the need to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and remind you, Your Honor, that Mr. Prasolov has written a statement in accordance with the requirements of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Now the question of our responsibility with you is how conscientious we are and we don't have double standards. When it comes to the incompatibilities of the two mandates, namely, the work in the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, we are obliged to vote with you in favour of the appointment of this national deputy. And we don't have to show double approaches: if we're comfortable, we vote; if we're not comfortable, we don't vote. And the opposition, I think, should now vote in the same way that it requires personal voting when it comes to matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u133	Mishchenka, national deputy. All of it. And we will end the vote on the basis of the vote. I'll give the representative another punch and we're done. And there will be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u134	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. So what we're talking about, which Constitution, if we see what's going on in the hall: both breaking the Rules, and breaking the Constitution, voting for another. I can tell you that if Parliament does not now vote in favour of depriving the People's Deputies of its powers, let the President issue an order for the release of Prasolov from the post of Minister and all, and there will be no violation of the Constitution. And I want you to know that this is a trend. Arbusov, Prassolov is a trend. Journalists, Ukrainian citizens, look, there's nothing wrong with the government, so hold on, opposition, don't vote for it, and we'll test them every time, watch them, and how many votes they get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u135	It's a strike. Capplin,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u136	The Vitalia Klitschak Faction, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich. This vote means only one thing, I want to go to my colleagues from the Party of Regions, guys, to go to work, not to contradict your pants elsewhere, to work out the taxes that ordinary Ukrainian citizens pay that keep you here. And the second. The law provides that the minister cannot take his stand, carry out his duties? Until he made the MP's appointment. And we're going to hold that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u137	Thank you. Two factions ask for a break: the faction of the Party of Regions and the IPU. O.B.? There's a break of 30 minutes, at 17.45 we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Two factions took a break. A number of MPs say their cards didn't work. I give the floor to the People's Deputy Miroznik Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. The point is, I was already the initiator of the return to the vote, and here I was accused of not having any specific names of the people who voted, the halls present, but their voice was not counted. In particular, Vladislav Lukyanov says that he voted, and his vote was not counted. So did Demiscan and a number of other colleagues who voted, but unfortunately the "Council" voting system didn't work. So, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I ask you to ask the question to return to the vote on the release of both Mr. Prasolov and Mr. Arbusov, with a view to considering and adopting the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of vote, we have all expressed our thoughts. A national MP made an offer. I'll put her to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What question? Which one? That's two factions taking a break. From these factions Miroshnichenko offers. You took two factions, and you gave them your word. Have a seat. I'll put it to a vote. I'm asking the leader of the Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u141	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. And give them time to come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u142	I ask the secretariat to announce in the towers of the Supreme Council that the session continues its work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Ladies and gentlemen, I do. Now that I'm out of seven minutes, eighteen, I'm going to continue my work for 15 minutes, up to 18 hours, 15 minutes. Please invite all the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u143	We're asking for a break now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u144	Come on. Two factions are calling for a break. Where do we have a national MP, Sas? By the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, well, we have an article 27 that defines the duties of chairman in plenary and is part of the first paragraph of paragraph 15 as the duty of chairman: it announces a recess of up to 30 minutes on the requirement of not less than two MP factions for the use of this right in faction during one plenary meeting. We're having an evening. Let's announce what to do here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-10-m0.u146	We're looking at questions. Let's take a look at the question and then come back. You took it today. Arseny Petrovich, you've already taken a break. Took two factions of the second break. So the break is no longer today. We didn't close the morning session, so let's go to the Rules and work. It's not closed. We continued our work. We didn't finish the question with Praslovov, so I did. Let's finish the question after Praslovov, shall we? Well, if we say so, for the Rules. We've got Sass on this. Well, we have to finish the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I get it. Well, you took a break. We didn't finish our morning session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, sit down, reverend! Deputies! 18 hours is good, so I'm closing the Supreme Council meeting tonight. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue the meeting, the sessional day, at 10 a.m.
