ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Prepared? Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:08]] There were 354 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Alexandrovich Gorokhova and Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. [[Applause]] Let's congratulate the deputies on their birthdays and wish them all the best. Dear colleagues, today, December 20, is the day of the militia. Let's welcome all the veterans, the police, who are faithfully carrying their heavy and dangerous services for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, with a professional holiday. [[B in m in s a l in]] We wish them good health, happiness, and high professional achievements in the ministry in the name of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, thank you. Don't shout too loud! What are you yelling at? It's morning, and you're already yelling like that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich Pshonka, who is present and the government is practically in stock. As we agreed, today we will hear information from the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office about the events that took place on the night of November 29 to 30 and December 1, 2013 about the participants in the Mayan Independence and the Street Bank. As I told you, Victor Pavlovich Pshonka will be speaking. Part 5 of article 240 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes the following rules of procedure: In order to give Victor Pavlovich a report within 20 minutes, questions will be asked — up to 15 minutes. Presidents and ministers of the Ukrainian government are present. Deputies will be able to sign up and to whom ministers will ask questions, there is an opportunity to ask these questions. And we're going to work on this for an hour. Therefore, honourable members of the people, I invite the Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich, and Pshonka to the rostrum. Please, Victor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! All of us are not the first week to witness the events in Kiev. Violations of public order led to opposition between shareholders and law enforcement officials. According to all such facts, the procurator’s office and law enforcement authorities have carried out checks in a number of criminal conducts, and there has been a pre-trial investigation. At the same time, the investigation of events on November 30 and December 1st is under my personal control. Information about the overcoming of police officers during the mass raids on the morning of November 30 on the Mayan Independence Day was added to a single register that day. The investigation is carried out by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The case was created by a group of the most experienced investigators and trial managers. At present, the investigation has found that opposition from individual rallyers to the establishment of the New Year’s Eve Independence on Maidan has become a direct reason for the involvement of law enforcement officials. The preparation of the site for New Year’s celebrations began long before mass action, and the work of the utilities made it much more difficult. The leadership of the Kyiv Cultural Department of the city’s public administration has twice written to the capital police about the need to ensure public order, particularly when mounting a tree. It was on November 30 that basic assembly work was planned. To protect public order, according to the direction of the Chief of Police of Kiev Valery Korjak, his deputy was Peter Fedchuk, the Chief of Public Security in Kiev, Oleg Marinenko, his deputies, Sergey Boyko and Sergey Karanduk. Starting on November 24th, Fedchuk worked daily on the calculation of the forces and resources of internal affairs, including the deployment of internal forces and special forces in the capital. Everything was designed to protect public order. On November 29, the rallyers met with law enforcement officers on the Main Independence had a place starting in the afternoon. In addition to the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of 21 November to ban the collection of stationary and moving small architectural forms, the participants tried to bring the equipment to the stage for about 16 hours. Police officers refused to allow this to happen on the basis of the court’s decision. The result was a conflict between shareholders and law enforcement officers, which lasted several hours. For about 17 hours, activists began blocking the roadblock, obstructing traffic, provoking law enforcement. At the time, about five hundred people were left on the Main Independence Day, about forty of them with faces, masks, and masks hidden. At 7 p.m., one of the members of the Euromaidan Authority announced that the action had been completed. Shareholders dismantled the scene and took it out of Midan for about 24 hours. At 23 p.m., a 45 - minute standoff arose near the vehicles, and one of the participants sprayed tear gas in the face of law enforcement. Following the prosecution’s office quickly, I repeat, quickly restored the order of events. At 3 p.m., 51 minutes to do the cleaning work and the installation of the New Year’s Christmas tree arrived in the square. However, aggressively tuned stockholders did not respond to their comments, began pushing the utilities, blocking the car’s movement, and knocking down the fence. In these circumstances, about 4 hours, the master of the district of the utility "Shlah-Operation Authority of the Shevchenkov district" of Kiev addressed police officers with an application for an offence and a request to ensure that the conditions of work are met. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are activists there, please go and report to your parliament if you are an MP. You're going to break up. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll say it again. I repeat, the Attorney General in the rostrum of an important legislative body will report what was established in the previous investigation on a momentary basis. Say it again, do you hear? Then continue, you hear what the Attorney General has to say. Police officers on Maidan called on rallyers to free up the area for assembly services. The members of the campaign did not respond to the calls of law enforcement officials. This is confirmed by video recordings, supported by video recordings and testimony from victims and witnesses. Then, in order to ensure the rule of law, the capital police were given the proper authority to the internal troops and the Berkutu, who were temporarily stationed in the central part of the city. At 4 p.m., 7 minutes after the direct command of the Chief of Public Security of the Kiev Police, Marinenka and his deputy Boyk began establishing a border to restrict access to Mainan Independence. Police officers continued by means of loudspeakers to propose the release of Majdan Independence. Yet, the rallyers did not react in any way. At four o'clock in the morning, 10 minutes, the Berkut unit began operations aimed at pushing the rallyers out of Maindan Independence. Taking into account the active resistance of the shareholders, individual Berkutu employees have started to use special tools individually. At the same time, internal troops created security corridors for the exit of humans. During the expulsion from Maidan Independence, some citizens complied with the law enforcement requirements and left the area through the security corridor. At the same time, a group of radically tuned rallyers started throwing stones, glass and metal banks at the Berkutu workers, burning sticks. As a result, 16 law enforcement officers were hospitalized. Because of this behavior, the Berkutu officials used special tools for the second time. But it has to be noted that the level of use of force by law enforcement officials did not correspond to the danger of the attack and the circumstances involved. At 4 p.m., 22 minutes of citizen displacement from Main Independence was completed. In the course of these measures, 35 active public officials were taken to the Shevchenkov Police Department. Of these, 10 have administrative records. As far as the previous results of the investigation are concerned, they are well - known to both you and the public. However, I will brief you. The investigation is currently working in three main directions. This is the establishment of ownership and the level of responsibility, firstly, the leadership and the staff of the special task force "Berkut". Secondly, setting up state officials who have a bearing on making certain decisions or vice versa, which has led to a violation of the law and the consequences that we have today. Thirdly, the organizers of provocations and directly those individuals who carried out these provocations. Today, more than 20 people have been questioned, including the head of the Capital Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, officers of the Berkut Special Unit. 57 judicial expertise has been assigned. Video recordings are being studied. As a result of the investigation, 88 allegations of bodily harm by law enforcement officers were confirmed during the November 29-30 confrontations. In all, two persons were hospitalized. The victims include 7 students, 2 foreigners, 3 minors, and 7 journalists. The remaining 70 are adult civilians. According to previous findings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in some cases the use of physical and special measures exceeded the extent necessary to carry out police duties and did not minimize the possibility of harming the health of offenders. On the basis of the evidence received, four persons were handed over to the investigators of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office: Popov, Sivchuk, Korak, Fedchuk. However, there are objective factors that make it impossible to complete the investigation in short periods. This is a considerable amount of material that is subject to study and research, the lack of interrogation by victims and witnesses, including the national deputies of Ukraine, and other complexities that arise in the investigation. In spite of the factors noted, a legal assessment will be given to every decision and step taken that night. Now on December 1, 2013. They began by walking peacefully between Mikhail and Sofia Squares. Yet, about 13 a.m., in spite of the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of 30 November, the demonstrators set out to Khreshtick and Majdan Independence Street where the administrative buildings of the Kyiv City State Administration and the management of Ukrainian professional communities began to take over. In addition, in Majdan Independence, a group of people illegally took possession of a charger belonging to the Darnicki Authority, a road repair unit that had already tried several times on Bankova Street to smuggle and break the borders of internal forces. From the third to the fifth hour of the day near the President’s Administration, radical groups organized mass disturbances and attacks on the lives of law enforcement officials. The soldiers were thrown at by a picket line, incendiary mixtures, noise grenades, other objects, metal chains, and paint on their helmets. Over the years, law enforcement has not taken any action, despite numerous attacks. In general, this opposition lasted almost four hours. At 6 p.m., 43 minutes ago, officers of the special unit Berkut used special equipment to take active measures to stop illegal activities. I will note that in accordance with the requirements of article 14 of the Ukrainian Police Act, in the event of a threat to the lives of citizens, the internal affairs body has the right to use special means. After 30 minutes, the opposition was halted. According to the events recorded at the Presidential Administration, two criminal investigations have been recorded in the Single Register of Investigations. In particular, internal affairs bodies that are subject to the Criminal Procedure Code have been investigated to investigate the conduct of mass disturbances, assaults on the lives of police personnel, hijacking of a charger and resisting law enforcement personnel and deliberately inflicting bodily harm on them. In addition, law enforcement authorities are investigating the violence and resistance of militia personnel in Mayan Independence near the office of the Ministers of Ukraine and Lenin’s monument, the resistance and use of physical force in relation to the executioner, the massive disturbances near the building of the Kyiv City State Administration, the attempt by the judge of Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev to inflict bodily harm. By this time, as you know, 19 persons who had been involved in the above - mentioned offences had been identified, 8 of them had already pleaded guilty. The court’s decision approved the plea and reconciliation agreements. This process has already been done and the court has established it. One case is being considered right now in a court of law. Of the 19 persons arrested, 15 are now released. Four people remain: Smaller - suspected of assaulting a judge of bodily harm; Dzinzia, Kadura, Pridilenko - detained on December 1st by a freighter, mass disturbances and attacks on the lives of law enforcement personnel near the premises of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. Prosecutors of the city of Kiev are also investigating criminal conduct overpowering police officers and obstructing the legitimate professional activity of journalists. The circumstances of the rallying, including journalists, and bodily harm, have arisen. During this time, the prosecutor’s office conducted 220 interviews, deleted and reviewed video recordings, and photographic cards, which were followed by recognition. 42 forensics have been assigned. Missions have been made to establish witnesses and eyewitnesses, including police officers on the scene. The events on December 1 resulted in bodily harm, and a total of 220 people were admitted to medical facilities. These include 119 law enforcement officials, 3 foreigners, 4 minors, 7 students, and 24 journalists. Five journalists, by the way, continued to refuse forensic expertise and the status of victims. Regrettably, however, illegal actions continued after December 1st, among them: the capture and strength of the administrative buildings of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the House of Trades; the obstruction of the normal functioning of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; the destruction of the monument in Kiev; and the infliction of bodily harm on law enforcement officials. As well as interference and pressure on members of the Attorney General's Office by blocking the entrances to the building, the judicial authorities, by blocking the Shevchenkov district court, law enforcement officials by entering the office of the Office of Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. From November 24 to December 14, 40 criminal tours were launched. 14 are investigated by the prosecutor’s office, 26 by the internal affairs authorities, and 2 by the Ukrainian Security Service. All of these criminal cases occurred from November 29 to December 14 at events in the center of Kiev. In addition, calls for a violent takeover of government power were repeated at the Mayan Independence during the holding of the shares. In connection with these investigators, the Security Service has registered two conducts for the commission of a group of illegal acts aimed at the capture of state authority in Ukraine under article 109 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The analysis of research materials also shows that members of radical groups who have long operated in the form of various social organizations, including sports, have been involved in the reported provocations and offences. They are distinguished by the powerful financing, the complexity and the ideological work of spreading nationalism and the inflaming of international hostility. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sadly, there is an accident. [[Applause]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the materials provided to the Attorney General's Office by the Ukrainian Security Service, you have the right to read the materials as national deputies, and I will ask the head of the Security Service of Ukraine to make them known to you in part. And then, I think you're going to be less of a splash than you are. Think for peace in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Sadly, there is an accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u4	called for violence and the overthrow of existing power. Such events should not be treated in a safe, light, and irresponsible manner. I believe that the national electorate cannot help but agree. Our country has no right to become a ranger for the preparation of fighters and various radical groups. We are responsible with you for the morality of society, for the unity of society, for the peace of society, for the rule of law in this room. As evidenced by the material collected, things did not take place as clearly and unilaterally as they were generally commented on. It is evident that the truth is in everyone’s hands, and this is evident today in response to the speech made by the Attorney General of Ukraine. But objectivity has not been reversed, so in order to maintain the same objectivity, I propose that we spend some time looking at the footage of the events that we are talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is a democratic state. I have repeatedly stated that citizens have the right to peaceful meetings. At the same time, such measures should not go beyond secure limits, but street action should turn into unscrupulous aggression and hinder the work of public authorities. I want everyone to know there's power in the state, there's law in the state, and it's the only one for everyone. And these laws are being passed, I repeat, in this room. We will respect the laws you are voting for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Let's look at the entry that is. Have a seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then you'll write it down and you'll ask questions. Let's take a look. () [[Video Record Preview]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u6	People's deputies please sign up for the question. Please sign up. Are we done or what? Let's hear it. () [[Video Record Preview]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for your statements and suggestions. Don't scream! Sign up and all you want to say is this possibility, 20 minutes. Here comes the recording. Please. That's for questions and speeches to either the heads of government or the Attorney General. Question: People's MP. The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy, your question, and to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u8	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Please give the floor to the Deputy of the Fatherland Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u9	Please, Sergey Sobolev, a question. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u10	I think the dozens of journalists present in this room and the citizens who witnessed all of these events have come to realize that it turns out that a member of the Chevchenka Municipal Institute called "Berkut" in order to beat the students in animal form. And now, essentially. Please tell us, when we see the footage of dozens of journalists hitting dozens of young people, where a young man lying breathless beats dozens of Berkutites, where we will see the footage, how are the peaceful participants of the action being dealt with? When will we see what happened at 4 in the morning, when students were beaten at all? And so one conclusion: Mr. Attorney General, is it time for you to resign?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u11	Please, Victor Pavlovich, please. There's a way out of here. Is it working or not? This way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u12	I think the footage you're talking about, the National MP Sobolev, you've seen, you've seen, we've all seen, we've all seen, we've seen from November 30th to this day in a lot of information, and those images, and those images of objectivity, we haven't seen them. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I mean, did they come from the moon to Ukraine? They're not from Midan, are they? Which one they like.? Are we not objective? And the investigation, you say, will establish a certain objectivity. Where does that leave the investigation? That it shouldn't be that, or what? [[B in m in s a l in]] I told you, balance, balance of investigation today is to establish truth and objectivity. And the truth is always in the truth. And the truth is always in the reality that it was. Therefore, responsibility will be established as the radical ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u14	It'll be fixed. Those law enforcement officers who exceeded their powers. What doesn't like it here? I don't get it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Retirement, retirement. I know the law well, and I don't need to be intimidated. This is where the Attorney General's fate is decided, and you know what the President of the State decides next. We'll do what's right. Act by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Are we going to finish or are you asking questions? Patience, and you will hear the answer. I say again, questions asked, listen to the answer. Because the point is no longer to consider, we will finish. So I'm asking you, you asked for information, the Attorney General came, have patience. Please, the People's Deputies of the Greenewecki Region Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u16	Thank you. Greenewecki, 134 constituency, Odessa, Party of Regions. Dear Victor Pavlovich! I'd like to translate our conversation into a constructive river and ask you this question. What is your attitude toward the proposals that are now being made in the working groups of the Constitutional Assembly, requiring that the Public Prosecutor's Office be deprived of the functions of general oversight, including the protection of constitutional rights, human rights and citizens? And do you think society, executive authorities, law enforcement officials are ready to make these changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u17	Thank you. In the Supreme Council, the draft Law on Public Prosecutions was first considered. Today we have the findings of the Venice Commission. Indeed, the prosecutor’s office of European standards does not have the whole concept of general oversight. But the right to retain the elements of general oversight, especially where they go to protect the state and constitutional rights of citizens, must be left behind. So in the second reading, the national MPs, decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u18	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Mathios, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u20	Please, National Deputy Valentin Nastavichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u21	Nadajchenko, Vitalia Klitka Faction. Victor Pavlovich, actually voters and deputies, most of them, we want to hear the main answer to the main question. An illegal order for the lawful use of force and torture against civilians from 29 to 30 November, or did he receive a legal assessment in the Attorney General's Office? And our colleague mentioned a supervisory function that really belongs to the Attorney General's Office. Did the Attorney General's office now question the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? And whether or not there are any official instructions, orders in the interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the special divisions of the so-called "Berkut". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u22	Thank you. I repeat, I've informed you of a preliminary criminal investigation. All I need to know is the public, the people's deputies, I've informed them. Four persons are suspected. This indicates that the criminal case is being investigated and those responsible are being identified who are involved in the events that we are talking about with you today in this room. And if you've noticed, the three versions of the investigation are being investigated. First of all, it's the responsibility of law enforcement, it's the responsibility of radical factions that resisted law enforcement, and it's whether it's government officials, officials, officials, whether it's in action or not. These three versions show that you have a part of the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u23	The Fatherland faction, the Lunchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u24	Please give the floor to Ambassador Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u25	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u26	Viktor Pavlovich, you know, after hearing you, and yesterday's interview with Yanukovich, you all clearly realized that you didn't understand what the Ukrainian people had come out of, why the rebellion got up in your faction. You didn't realize there was no more patience. You say: one law for all. Victor Pavlovich, for whom is everyone? I can tell by my fingers who everyone is. The people are up! And no matter what you show, everyone understands, the king is naked! There is no right, there are no courts! We were standing, you pulled the facts near Kabmin! Victor Pavlovich, well, we have to be honest. There were two rows of aunts in front of the police. And then they entered the ranks and started to have active information. You were told who was ready! You're an officer!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u27	I don't understand who didn't. I'm so sorry. You probably didn't understand what I said in that report either.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u28	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Greenwich. [[B in m in s a l in]] The questions don't go, the questions need to be asked. You've got a minute to do this. Please, National Deputy Greenevich. People's MP Greenevich. Please, the microphone. Well, where's your card or your microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u30	Please, National Deputy Oleg Tuggnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Attorney General, judging from your performance, it's clear that you're simply reanimating Stalinism. Your speech is completely biased, unilateral, and the video you showed is not an operational video, and this is a mounted video in fact in the worst traditions of Soviet agitprop. As evidence, this is the priest who was shown, the video, this is a two-year-old record. What are you provoking for? Why don't you tell us that people went out to Midan because the police caused the beatings? Where's the video when the man got 68 hits? Where is the video of journalists, paramedics? Where are the aunts, in no way are you showing them to provoke? And where is the video of people being pushed all the way to Mikhail Square.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u32	Please, please. It was a performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Victor Pavlovich, was it a performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u33	We have a video. Now put on our video.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u34	Me, me, me. Vladimir Vasilovich. I'm, uh, I'm going to repeat it again for the journalists, and for the hall of honor, would you show me some news or would you like to take a look at some of the broadcasts in the country where these videos were? Were they anywhere? They weren't there. And you know it. And what you're talking about, it was. But there has to be a balance of concept and a balance of justice. Are you for justice? Follow the path of justice. If there can be no war of the law. And you're pushing the investigation and the Attorney General into a war with the law. That won't happen. The mandate of legality is a mandate of trust in the Attorney General's Office, which is given to you in this room and get back. That's why. I didn't come here to have you put politics into my mind about criminal matters. It's your business and it's politics and factions. And I have that law that's being implemented in this hall. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u35	Victor Pavlovich, sit down. Time's up. People's deputies, please sign up for the government statement. I've been announcing for 15 minutes. I'm exhausted. Sign up, we've got seven more minutes to ask the government. Please sign up. Well, we agreed in time, so what are you yelling at? Please, the Company of Ukraine faction, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u36	Please pass the word to the jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u37	Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I have a question, first of all, to Victor Pavlovich. The comments were made, but unfortunately they did not focus properly on those events, and they were central to the monument of Volodymyr Ilchi Lenin in Bessarabica. The first attempt to destroy it was from December 1 through December 2, where I want to point out that even the largest law enforcement officers have also suffered. There are open fractures, and they are closed at different degrees. The second event was a real act of vandalism on the part of neofascism and the representatives of the nationalist forces where the crime was committed. Today, more than 70 percent of China, the progressive community, and the world are expressing their concern about these actions. So I have a specific question to Victor Pavlovitch. Will vandals be punished for destroying the monument of Vladimir Lenin in Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u39	Thank you. In my talk, I said that in the whole of December 29 - 14, 40 criminal cases were committed in Kiev. The criminal conduct of Lenin’s monument is also investigated by the investigating departments of Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. So there's criminal conduct and it's being investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u40	Please, a question to the government. Faction hit, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u41	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u43	Victor Pavlovich, I want to speak to you again. After the footage we just saw on the screen, I can say that as a participant in the active events that took place, it was a peaceful demonstration that almost a million people came out. [[B in m in s a l in]] And once again, I want to point out that there's going to be a lot of so-called aunts involved. And the journalists who were present at this event confirm this, and the footage that was passed around the world. And the question is. Who organized the beatings on November 30 and December 1? Who gave permission to carry out a force action on the night of December 11th? We need to give a clear answer to these questions. And I'm sure the answer to these questions should be given to the power structures. And the power structures should also be responsible. We want to know a clear name and a line when we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u44	Thank you. I say, the investigation isn't finished, and among the versions that I spoke twice about in the Supreme Council Hall, I said that there were and should have been an answer to the question that I got. But to this day, specifically say the name of the official who gave the order, and was it an order to do something that "Berkut" exceeded its power, today the investigation cannot answer. You can talk about it, it's a comment in the media, it's about the cassettes that Grizzenko passed on to the National MP. So what Grizzenko handed over is relevant, and it's very important for everyone to know that it's about the broadcast of internal forces and it's not about the conversations that were in the middle of "Berkut." The investigation examined all the radio conversations "Berkutu," there's not a single word in part of the fact that any of the officials were given an order. But we understand with you that an order can be issued not only in radio conversation, but also in another way -- all of this is now being investigated. Then, I think there's going to be supplementary information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u45	Freedom Union, National MP Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u46	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head! I understand you're covering for the Attorney General because he has nothing to say to the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies. We don't have a question for the government. The government has to resign. And sooner or later it's going to happen -- that's for sure. Next question. Mr. Attorney General, today you have earned a medal from Andrija Januaryovich Viszynski, who organized political divisions and conducted political trials. Because it's actually the kind of thing that you see in your video, it's a political assessment of, you know, Fascist organizations, about nationalist organizations. And once again, what you're doing is a complete lie, in the style of Soviet agitprop. Because, in fact, that priest, I want to make it clear that this priest was speaking two years ago, not in Maidan, but in the city of Colomia, and you brought him here. So answer the question: Why are you doing these insinuations and why are you covering up for Minister Zacharychenk, who is not here today, and giving him the opportunity?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u47	I feel for myself and the public in Ukraine that some national MPs do not have an open policy. Unfortunately, it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u48	The Freedom Union. Last question, the "Freedom" union, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u50	Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u51	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, the Attorney General’s report makes it clear that there will be no objectivity during the pretrial investigation of these criminal conducts. There will be a one-sided biased investigation to find the culprits and the shooters. And there's a question about the shooters. It doesn't take long to find out who can order "Berkut" to act in such a situation. There are appropriate orders from the minister of the interior, and it clearly states who gives the orders. So it's not necessary to investigate that much time to find out. It's just to pick up the normative documents. I'll help you. Internal forces were also involved. Who are authorized to engage internal forces in such a situation? In the same way, you will be given appropriate regulations. You mentioned that during the events of November 29 - 30, you resisted. Please tell me who resisted 500 meters from Maidan, a mile from Maidan when people were beaten.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u53	Everything you asked in your question, there's an answer to the investigation, but I can't talk about everything in this room, because in some of the investigative materials you don't have to rush, you don't have to rush like that. Where do you rush some of the Attorney General to make sure everything is in Visinsky. This will not happen in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Honourable National MPs, information from the Attorney General's Office has been heard and has been made known. Let us thank Victor Pavlovich for his participation in the work, thanking the government for his participation in the Supreme Council. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u55	In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Please announce your requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there have been questions from the national MPs: People’s Deputies (Hanneka, Helevaeus, and others) Only 5 deputies) to the President of Ukraine about the abuses during the construction of the new Ohmatdit Corps. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the request of the National MPs. Please put to the vote. [[11:04:15]] For 101 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 241. The decision is not taken. National Deputy Yuri Derevyanka to the President of Ukraine on the need for immediate dismissal from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine Vitali Zaharchenk, as an official who exceeds his authority, gives illegal instructions to strong structures, commits inactivity, and violates the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine. Please put to the vote. Yes. [[11:04:56]] For 104 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 235. The decision is not taken. Thank you. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to improve the criminogenic situation in the Preyaslav-Hmeljna region of Kiev. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional allocation of funds to the budget of the Žitomir Region for the development of preschool education, for the completion of the school in the village of Kodnja and for the construction of underground gas pipelines in the villages of Miroljubík, Rich and Turvec for 2014. Viktor Razwadowski, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration, for the groundless cessation of the execution of cash accounts by the Administration of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine in the region of Zitomir. Vasil Samylenk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the groundless removal of members of the Berdichov electoral process in the Žitomir area of housing and utility subsidies that worked on a paid basis. Valerija Chernjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the requirements of the law in the wake of the instigation of the territory and on the groundlessly high water tariffs. Valerija Černjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Svaljavian authorities with regard to the return from foreign illegal land ownership. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the road around the town of Berežana in the Ternopil region. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding from the State Budget for preparation and commemoration of the 550th anniversary of the first written mention of the city of Podgajci of Ternopil. Groups of National Deputies (Dubila, Zubka, Čuhunnikova) to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the implementation of the Committee's recommendations on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation to ensure the realization of housing rights of residents. Valery Golovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of current legislation by the Minister and officials of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of recognition of Christmas gifts by the humanitarian cargo of the German Evangelical and Lutheran Church of Ukraine. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of first place for graduates of higher education institutions. Sergey Greenewecko to the head of the Odessa District State Administration for the provision of quality drinking water to the Odessa region. Alexander Momota to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on how to explain the situation around the Scientific Research Program for the Development of the Grounds for the Management of Inland Water Objects and the Management of Special Commodity Farms for 2013. Alexander Momota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action on the situation surrounding the crossing of Ukrainian-Russian border cargo vehicles related to the refusal of Russian customs authorities to book international road transport (TIR Carnet), particularly at the South Customs Office of the Russian Federation. Edward Leonov to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the improper response to the parliamentary request regarding the legality of the criminal case against Alexander Wahnia for the opposition to illegal gambling activities and for the conduct of searches in his home. Eduard Leonov to the Kiev City Public Administration, deputy of the Kiev City Council, prosecutor of the city of Kiev, head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, on the task of damage in particular large-scale commercial structures, companies with limited responsibility for UkoinvestBud and Everest Plus. Dmitri Andriyewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment by the State Treasury of the current expenditure to the budgetary organizations. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the consideration of the concern of the Clevanske Village Council of the Ravens region regarding the granting of permission to remove the land of the Clevanis Professional List from the cemetery. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the improper investigation of criminal conduct in relation to the injured citizen Bilzan by the Prosecutor of the Yellow District of Dnipropetrovska and the inaction of the Dnipropetrovsk District Prosecutor's Office. Victoria Babic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures for the reconstruction of a catastrophic interdisciplinary bridge across the Vorskla River in the village of Clemento Ohtyr district of the Suma region. Victoria Babic to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding urgent measures to ensure the proper treatment of a two - year - old girl from the village of Johnovka, Luhansk district of Uljana Teaki. Romana Shugal to the head of the National Commission sector, which regulates the state energy sector in the Cherniewsky region, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association, the Energy Supply Company "CERNIEBLENERGO" regarding the consideration of a letter from the Afghan soldiers of the Armijec Gardening Society of the City of the Guardians on the illegal disconnection of the power supply of the Strožinet district of electricity networks (REM). Sergey Kunicina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, on the illegal actions of the Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan (USWA) Sergey of Redfoot. Edward Gurvez to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent steps to rebuild the building of the Odessa County Children's Hospital on the street of Akademic Vorobyov, 3 in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Alexander Sr. to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the purposeless use of dormitories, the compulsory collection of funds from students for the installation of watertight equipment in dormitories and the collection of funds for the activities of the charity at the National University of Bioresources and the use of Ukraine. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for information on the reporting of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the daily negotiable balance sheet, daily technical account limits, daily opening limits in the electronic payment system, daily reinforcements of the single treasury account, taking into account compliance with the required level of payment capacity. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the anti-State activity of the so-called Ukrainian Greco-Catholic Orthodox Church and its head, Antonin (Illy) Doglán. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the timely payment of the accounts of the budgetary institutions in the city of Curtkovi Ternopil district. Irina Farion to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the improper performance of her duties and the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal of prosecutor Harkov - Eugene Popovic. Irina Farion to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the public humiliation of Ukrainian language, the inflaming of international hostility that threatens the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state, the Rector of the National Aerospace University of Kharkiv Aviation Institute to the Crimsons and lecturers of this university. Oksana Sold to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of a letter of clarification. Oxana Sold to the First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the conduct of a game of farming with regard to the transfer of a function from the administration of a single social contribution from the Pension Fund of Ukraine to the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the 1025th anniversary of the city of Volodymyr-Vollin Region. Ruslana Solvar to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration on the need for comprehensive consideration of citizens' requests for adequate housing and utility services in various regions of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Laws on Human Welfare and Housing Services. Ivan Kurovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for preventing the liquidation of the railway crossing 756 kilometers from the Kiev-Nyzhina South-West Railway station and creating safe conditions for its intersection. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on adequate budgetary funding in the State Budget for 2014 of the State Youth Housing Programme 2013-2017. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the blockade by the State Treasury Service of Ukraine of the cost of feeding children in the preschool educational institutions of the town of Bachmach Chernigiv region. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of DP "38 VITCH" in 2014. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the crisis situation that arose at the State Enterprise, the public stock company Dniprožinska TEC. Andrija Tajniboka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to investigate criminal offences. Lviv Mirimsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the raiding by officials of the closed-type Association of Shareholders, the Limited Responsibilities Society of Promholding of Real Estate in Simferopol, addressed: Kyivska Street, 4. Lviv Mirimsky to the Simferopol City Head on the implementation of article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy. Edward Gurwicz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the purpose of carrying out checks and taking appropriate measures to respond to the attacks on foreign students who are studying in Odessa. Sergio Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the legality of the activities of officials of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine during the arrest of journalists and public activists on October 5, 2013 at the People's Square in the city of Uzgorod. Roman Ilik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the completion of the construction of the Turka-Tuskavec road on the Modrich-Tustanovic area. Andrija Kožemjakina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on illegal actions by the former First Deputy Director of the Regional Administration of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region of Anatolia Shevtsov regarding the son of Anatolia Krijačka and on the absence of a proper response to the numerous appeals by Anatolia Kryczak by officials of the executive and law enforcement authorities. Andrija Kožemykina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on gross violations of the order of forensic expertise and non-response of law enforcement authorities to the citizens of these matters. Vitalia Jaremi to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the need to make a decision on the incorporation of the Public Shareholders Association "Daniel Commercial Bank" into the category of unpayable investors in the bank. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to verify the legality of the law enforcement agencies during the pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct against a citizen of Vitali Lesowski and on the grounds that there are signs of an innocent person being brought to criminal liability. Valery Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of the review and enforcement of due process in criminal proceedings. Gregory Smythuch to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the payment of the goods delivered by the Kovell Cash and Retail Base of the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine. Gregory Smythuch to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the electricity supply of the village of Okonsk Manevicki district of Volin Region for a subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine for the socio-economic development of individual territories. Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Treasury Office of Ukraine on the need to create favourable conditions for the implementation of socio-economic projects for the development of the city of Chernivci. Hennady Fedorjak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction, Housing and Communal Economy of Ukraine, Montenegro Regional Government Administration on the need to complete the construction of the Chagorsky Public Education School of the I-II level of the Glucian Region of Montenegro and create the right conditions for obtaining basic secondary education in rural areas. Lilia Greenewicz to the prosecutor of Donetsk about the legality of removal from the educational process and the authority of the city of Donetsk in the premises of the Donetsk public education school, No. 90, and the transfer of it to the commercial enterprise. Lilia Greenevich to the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of payments to budget staff and payments for "unprotected articles". Arturo of the Chamber to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal for a violation of legislation in the construction of an object on the Park Road, 3/5 in the Pecher district of Kiev. Jurya Orotyuka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the state of protection of national information space. Arsena Avakov to the Kyiv City State Administration for the Prohibition of the Construction of a Trade Complex in the Green Zone of Kiev Arsena Avakov to the Mirgorod City Head for the provision of a room in a dormitory of a single mother with a minor child. Vasila Petyevka to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine regarding the organization of the Teresva crossing on the Ukrainian-Romanian border in the village of Teresva Tajov district of Zakarpatsk. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of Preschool School No.2 in the village of the town type Dubov Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Slava Hanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine from medical resources, Minister of Health of Ukraine for State Control and Supervision of Standards and Technical Conditions for Transport, Storage, Use of Vaccines and Other Immunological Devices. Vladimir Schulga to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Prosecutor's Department of Oversight of the Tax Police of the Suma District of Taras Romanov. Vladimir Schulga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure to implement investment projects from the rehabilitation of buildings has established the budgetary sphere, namely the Grand Obobunjni School of Education, II-II, in the city of Romna, Suma Region. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal transfer to the property of the land of recreational destination in the village of the town type Brukhovich Shevchenkovi district of Lviv. Alexander Zubchevsky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation into the massacre of residents of the village of Novouspenyvka in the Zaporozhye district by organized criminal groups. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Kyiv City State Administration for refusing to destroy the museum fund during the reconstruction of the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. Alexander Doub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Kyiv region in criminal investigations. Valeria Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the number of officials involved in the issuance of false or fabricated documents to persons who received the status of victims of the Chernobyl AES accident. Valentina Matvieva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on illegal attempts to take over the residence of the resident of Odessa Larissa Golobov. Alexander Sić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to housing of the residents of the hostels included in the statutory capitals of societies created in the privatization process (corporation). Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine to ensure payment to teachers of educational and scientific institutions of the city of Kirovgrad of the cash reward for the academic year 2012-2013. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the current system of social protection for persons with disabilities by decriminalizing the responsibility for discrimination on the basis of disability. Bogdan Benjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the anti-government activity of the so-called Ukrainian Greco-Catholic Rule of Law and its head, Antonin Doglán. Tetjana Sluz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the cessation of the closure of health facilities in the Chernigiv region. Tetjana Sluz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the National Sanitary Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Government Administration for the Elimination of Anti-Sanitary and Accidental Mushrooms in Priluka. Alexander Brigintz to Kiev City State Administration, Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Obolon Region of Kiev for the non-permission of the Centre of the Mothers of Mentally Disabled Persons of the Obolon District of Kiev, and the removal of them from the premises at Lakerna Street, 26-A. Alexander Briginz to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, State Architectural and Building Control Inspectorate in Kiev on non-execution by the limited-liability "FSC" of the State Architectural Control Inspectorate in Kiev since 29 October 2013. Irina Sech to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of acquisition by the Society with limited responsibility for Westhazinvest has authorized the use of nadrama in the territory of the Lviv region and the transfer of these rights under the control of a foreign company. Groups of National Deputies (Sech, Pankevitch and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegality Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of October 17, 2013, No. 811 "To transfer the property complex of Military City No.212 to the area of administration of the Lviv District Public Administration". Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the compulsory payment of non-refundable financial assistance for the clearance of goods with a short period of eligibility at the Kiev Customs Department of the State Customs Service of Ukraine. Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of unlawful violation of the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations and the obstruction of professional journalistic activities by the director of the Book of Boukovin, Victor Longanic. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine for illegal non-forming of diesel fuel by officials of the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine. Andrew Pishny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries in ten months for employees of the Herson State Plant Pallad. Jury Wozniak to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the work of Judge Alexander Timoshuk of Ravens on the existence of grounds for his dismissal in connection with a violation of a judge’s oath. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide sufficient gas limits for the provision of the city of Ganiceska Hersonsk, Geniceska, I apologize. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure timely payment of payment orders by the authorities of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the responsibility of Luhansk City Head Sergey Kravchenk for the abuse of his office. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the operation of one of the largest companies in the steel industry in Ukraine and to resolve the issue of providing state support to the enterprise. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the issue of the pay of children's sports school trainers. Roman Ilik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the inability to purchase airline tickets, which were prepared without prior payment, at a minimum rate. Oleg Dragnibok to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on the decline of industrial production in Ukraine Valentina Queen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding from the State budget of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline from the gas distribution station of Oparypsi to the villages of Nemirovka, Fathers, Basharovka, Pryski, Starika, Perjetin of the Radiville region of the Plain region. Jury Bublika to the Head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission on the Prevention of Budget Loss in the Creation of the Central Depository, the Elimination of Shareholder Rights Violations and the Selection of the Society's Securities Depository with Limited Responsibilities "Manage Treze Trading Limitid". People’s Deputies ( Putilova, Negoya, and others. A total of 14 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the urgent steps taken to verify the violation of the rules of environmental protection, land, sanitation, veterinary, labour protection and labour legislation in the village of Eastern Belarus. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the elimination of the private shareholders' association "Kyivska Electrotechnical plant "Transignal" and on the use of response measures aimed at protecting factory workers. Group of People's Deputies (Matios, Heratchenko, Tomenka) to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Cherka District State Administration on the situation with the projects "Restructuring of the Heat Generatorate of Chevchenkov National Reserve" and "Restruction is the Lower Park of the Chevchenkov National Reserve in Canev". Vladimir Pilpenka to the procurator of the Poltava region for the payment of the debt on salary to residents of the villages of Tchaikowščina and the Old Iriver of the Orgic Region of Poltava by the Society with limited responsibility of Jaromir-Agro. Eugene Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, on the responsibility of officials of the control bodies who did not respond adequately to the violation of environmental legislation by the Public Shareholders Association of the Volodymyr-Wollin Bird Factory, which led to an extraordinary situation. Roman Shugal to the head of the Vinnitsky District Administration, the procurator of the Vinnitsk Region, the head of the Lipovetsk Regional Administration of the Vinnitsk Region, the procurator of the Lipovetsk Region of the Vinnitsk Region for the verification of compliance with the requirements of the current legislation by the owner of the limited liability "Jami Limited" of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement in part of the timely supply of garbage for municipal purposes by the district community of Seminovka Poltavsk. Zarubinsky's Oleg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures aimed at lowering the interest rate on the use of loans to the population. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reduction in the number of information required from a citizen to receive social assistance, benefits and other administrative services. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to solve the problem of payment to children of war for the decisions of the courts finally adopted by the name of Ukraine. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the mass refusal to grant benefits to participants in the liquidation of the ČAES accident and the baseless judicial burden against them on the example of the resident of the village of the Chutovo Poltava district of Alexander Golovchenka. Anatolia Vitova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for an inappropriate response to a parliamentary request for the allocation of funds for road repairs in Ukraine. Oleg Knavekik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of illegal acts and omissions, corrupt acts that favour physical or legal persons who appeal to the Lviv City Council on land-use issues, failure to execute decisions of the courts that have gained legal power from the city’s head, Lviv Andrija Sadov. Oleg Knavekik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the inaction of the criminal investigation bodies in criminal proceedings established on the illegal sale of narcotic drugs. Victor Gubar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for work and energy. Eugene Balitsky to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the debt of earnings to the employees of the Associations with limited responsibility for "Communication of People's Use" and "Lithuania" in the city of Melitopol Zaporizki district. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the immediate verification of compliance with legislation in the field of public procurement during the purchase of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine vaccines. Paul Petrenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the immediate investigation of events that took place on November 20, 2013, in Kiev on Bulgakova Street, 9, which resulted in the death of a person. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, for the payment of payments to the Central Office of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine in the Poltava region, for the repayment of the creditors’ debt for the construction of the Seminesian and Orsic regions of the Poltava region. Groups of National Deputies (Sicha, Pharion, Leonova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine as part of ensuring the functioning and development of Ukrainian as a state language in all spheres of social life and the presence of discriminatory signs in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in part of the acquisition of education in the Ukrainian language by Ukrainians, Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities living in the territory concerned. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funding for the educational process of the Novoroby School of the Malin district of Žitomir. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption schemes and bribes by high-ranking workers, which resulted in the failure of Naftogaz Trading and Lukoil to pay taxes to Ukraine's state budget, which resulted in billions of dollars being lost to Ukraine, as published in Ukraine's Civil Service documents, while Ukraine's Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, is crying that there is no funds in the National Budget for Social Payments. Vladimir Yavorovsky Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for providing clear information on the state of affairs in connection with the construction of the metropolis landline, namely: the readiness of the final project and the provision of a copy thereof; the amounts of funds in the Ukrainian State Budget and the Kiev City Budget for 2014; the construction works planned for 2014. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds for the renovation of the transport fleet for emergency medical care and medical equipment for the Ternopil region. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, to ensure the implementation of the Social and Economic Development Project "Building of the Licensing Route of the Ternopil Regional Physical and Sports Society Colossus" in the village of Ternopila Suburban region of the Ternopil region". Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of a school bus for the population of the Grand Viennese Rural Council of the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, on the abuse of land by officials of the State Agency for Land Resources in the Zakarpat region and the Hust district government. Vasil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region, law enforcement authorities and authorities of the State Executive Service of Ukraine. Leonidas Hamtsa to Kiev City State Administration on the basis of the legality of the reconstruction of the Park Road in Kiev Jury Stecza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the verification of violations of Ukrainian legislation by the management of the Teleradio Company "Lviv Wave". Ruslan Solvar to the Minister**** the infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the South West Railway on the need to improve transport services for residents of the city of Fastova and the Fastev region of Kiev. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release of employees of the closed-circuit company "Technological Plant", the village of the town of Grodok in the Plains region, who defended their rights to pay for their work. Ruslana Knazević to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of students in the termination of higher education institutions. Igor Yankiva to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory operation of the branches of the Lviv Image Gallery of Oleski, Podgorica and Zoločov Castles. Paul Kirilenka to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of Ukrainian citizens’ rights and the illegal restriction of their freedom by the Foreign Service of the Russian Federation. Jury Crook to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the social security of internal affairs veterans. Andrija Mishchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the non-involvement of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in political provocations, the use of the media, and the denial of false information about the involvement of members of the All-U.S. Freedom Association in the Dnipropetrovsk region in the case of the removal of the arsenal of weapons. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for providing information on the projected cost of carrying out measures marking the 1980s of the year of Holodomor 1932-1933 in Ukraine. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the existence of corruption in the activities of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Poltavska, related to the discharge of the internal affairs authorities of the head of the Svetlana Loskot investigative department, her persecution through provocation and bribery by the involvement of officials in internal affairs and the opening of criminal conduct. Natalia Novak to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the situation surrounding the destruction of the Kyiv Municipal Opera Theatre and the ballet for children and youth. Groups of National Deputies (Martinica, Tomenka, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the examination of information concerning the violation by the judge of the District Court of Kiev of Kiev of Galina Suprun of the requirements for official duties and the oath of a judge in the case of the summons of Inni of God’s Word to Alexander Aronz. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the legality of deforestation in areas belonging to the villages of Mladince and Chermichov in the Jewish region of Lviv. Oleg Medunica to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for illegal acts, abuse of office and violation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and the principles of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Prosecutor of the Department of Taxation of the Prosecutor's Office of the Somali District of Taras Romanov. Anton Kisse to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the conclusion of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health’s chief outpost specialist on the need for treatment abroad. Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to develop and implement a readmission agreement with the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Moldova. Ruslan Zelik to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the illegal industrial capture of water resources in the territory of the natural-intelligence institution, the National Natural Park of Hotinski. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the financing of computerization and information of public education facilities in Kovelski, Ratniwski, Starovijski, Szacki district, and the town of Koveli Volinsk district. Andrija Ponomarov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the correct calculation of the pension of Maria Tatarinova. Igora Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the level of pre-school education in Ukraine and access to it, financing pre-school education and non-earmarked use of pre-school education facilities. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Mikolai District State Administration on the situation surrounding Slava's memorial to the dead soldiers of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945, regarding the use of memorial tombstones to pave the sidewalk in Kazanka's Mikolai district. Sergio Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inactivity of law enforcement authorities regarding the investigation of bodily harm as a result of the attack on correspondent Jan Truham during her professional duties in the city of Krivem Rose of Dnipropetrov district on November 5, 2013. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative environmental, social, and humanitarian consequences of the restoration of the construction of the Kanów Hydroaccumulative Power Station near Caneva and the construction site, and the exploitation of animals near the reserve zone — the tomb of Taras Shevchenk. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for requirements to ensure the proper implementation of Ukrainian legislation regarding the functioning of the national language in the city of Stahanov Lugansk and to take action to ensure that the officials of the local self - government bodies responsible for violating citizens’ rights. Paul Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Revenue and the Ukrainian Congregations for the purpose of verifying that income levels are consistent with the Declaration on the Income of Officials. Sergey Kaplina to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of labour rights of employees of the Ministry of Social Policy, which has evidence of a criminal offence. Igora Miroshnicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent environmental, sanitary and epidemiological hazards and to verify violations of environmental legislation and illegal actions unknown to the destruction of waste dumps and wastes in the village of Steckovka of Sumski district of Sumy region. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on security in Ukraine's State Budget for 2014 funding of the "Gasupply of the village of Rakovka of the Balkan region of Kharkiv" program, amounting to 792,000 dollars. Oleg Orotyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Sevastopol City Administration, the head of the Ternopil District State Administration, the head of the Poltava District Public Administration regarding the respect of Ukrainian citizens' rights in the sphere of culture, the provision of access to national cultural property, cultural goods and artistic creativity. Tetjani Donez to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a new medical diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital Ohmatdit. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that have Caused Loss of Work. Jury Stac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the obstacles to the legitimate professional activities of journalist John Nacional of the Police Department of the Special Purpose "Berkut". Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gas supply of the roof boiler, which belongs to the OSB "Aquamarin-3" at the address of the city of Kiev, the Prospect of Victory, 131. Andrija Tabalova to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of free hemophiliacs. Jacob Besbach to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to secure funding for a subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine for the 24th single-member district of Dnipropetrovsk. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the use of vacant premises of state and municipal preschool institutions under the current Ukrainian legislation. Peter Simonenck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in connection with the preparation of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union. Vitaly of the Ingredient to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the non-payment of salaries to former employees of the Society with limited responsibility for the Pereyaslav Bread. Welcome to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the National Plan for the Construction of Fishing Vessels of Ukraine 2002-2010. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to investigate and criminalize persons involved in the murder of 17-year-old Yuri Kudriavtsev from the village of the town-type Grebinka of the Basilk district of Kiev. Vyacheslav Zadrożny to Vice Prime Minister Yuri Boyk of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the relocation of residents of the Karnawatka residential estate in the city of Krivom Rose. Vyacheslav Zadrožny to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the amount of subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. Vadim Koleschenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Health Minister's Order of 4 January 2013 No.3 on the change to the Ministry of Health order of 26 August 2005 No.426 and recognition of those who have lost their validity, some of the orders of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the registration of medical devices" of Ukraine's Law on Principles of State Language Policy of 3 July 2012 No.5029 in part of the language of instructions for medical use of medical devices. Sergey Firemarck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights and freedom of peaceful meetings and the free expression of his views and beliefs during the campaign in support of the signing of the Agreement with the European Union in Odessa. Sergei Firemarck to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the need for an urgent review of the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Igor Zyrkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide computer technology for teaching institutions. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of changing the target destination of the land in Lugansk. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the deliberate, deliberate, brutal beating of journalists by police officers, the Berkut Special Unit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, during peaceful protests to support Euro-integration and to hold the guilty responsible for obstructing professional activity of journalists. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of torture by Berkutu employees detained on December 1, 2013 by rallyers on Bank Street and on the responsibility of those responsible. Boris Tarasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Health, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on urgent response and verification of violations of legislation at the "Bilocerkian Emergency Medical Station". Eugene Balitsky to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for information on the distribution of government capital expenditure. Igor Palica to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Carpathian Petroleum Corporation, aimed at illegal possession of property and money from Ukrainian oil and gas companies. Groups of National Deputies (Chugunikova, Wozniak and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the enforcement of legislation during the implementation of the assessment for tax purposes in accordance with Cabinet Order No.231 of 4 March 2013. People’s Deputies ( Chugunikova, Wozniak and others. A total of 5 deputies) to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for conducting anti-corruption expertise. Alexander Vasiliev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the recognition of humanitarian goods that came from the charity of the Greek Medical Foundation Hippocratics. Anton Kisse to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to ensure the continued operation of the Berezine Odessa Railway Station. Vasil Gladys to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations on the use of appropriate measures to impose an electricity tax on the population of mountain communities living in residential buildings that are not gassed with natural gas. Bogdan Benjuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the illegal appointment of deputy head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Dmitr Bjelik. Leonidas Bysarov to the Minister for Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine on the establishment of a balance sheet at the address of: Donetsk district, village of Novodonetske city type, Komsomolska street, house 7. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the taking over of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine the process of returning to the state ownership of the land of the Rozumów Forest (basic pine) in the territory of the Zaporez Region of Zaporez Region, unlawfully transferred to private property as land of agricultural destination, with the falsification of the true composition of the territory concerned, and the invocation of responsibility of the officials responsible. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to finance the construction of a new school in the village of Glinice in the region of Czernovetsec. Larissa Baiduk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Society's immovable property, with limited liability for the commercial firm Agroservis in the village of the city type Foros, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Omelana Parubka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to address the issue of misconduct by the Society's officials with limited responsibility, Elite Stall. Sergey Topalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of the fighting glory museum located in the village of Zuya Bilogirski district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And last but not least, Sergey Topalova's last request to Prime Minister of Ukraine to renew the financing of Kerchtroleibus's Kerchtroleibus, Kerchtroleibus, of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. All queries are read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u57	We all read it, didn't we? Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! We're finishing work today, the last day of work this year, in 2013. So I want to congratulate you on New Year's Eve, with Christmas Christ. May the beautiful winter festivals bring us all in state and peace and tranquillity and harmony (Mrs. Pharion!) And confidence in the future in your family. You're not at the rally right now, you're in the higher legislature of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-20-m0.u58	I love you guys. Then I'll come back here, okay? I want you to enjoy good health, a life of family happiness, wealth, well - being. I wish you a good mood. We shouldn't be in a bad mood all the time. Love, happiness, energy, and new accomplishments for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. With the coming festival! The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday 14 January 2014 at 10 a.m. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I'll see you in New Year's Eve. Thank you for your work.
