ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:19]] There are 331 national deputies in the hall. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Please calm down and let's get back to work. A draft Act (registration No. 2203, 2303-1, 2303-2) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property is being introduced. How will we view it? Short-circuited? Then I put to the vote, ask the MPs to vote, who's in favour of the shorter procedure. [[16:03:38]] For-129 Against 26, held 35, did not vote 161. The decision is not taken. You don't have to yell, you have to vote. The next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. First, listen to the project reports and then listen to the report of the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations of King Oleg Anatoliyovich, as representative of the committee, on all drafts. That's why I'm inviting the National Rapporteurs. Ukrainian National Deputy Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! The purpose of this bill was to unlock the issue of the transfer of land to both rental and ownership, both to Ukrainian citizens and to legal persons. In the process of discussing both my bill and colleague Melnik Stanislav Anatoleevich and other colleagues, as well as with Dubenko Alexander, we agreed that the alternative bill 2303 Dobrenkova solves more problems than our bill. What difference does it make? Our bill solves the problem of registering land rights for citizens and legal persons, but does not solve the problem of registering property on land for city communes and the state. To our joy and support, the law of Dobenko also solves the problem not only for individuals but also for local communities and nations. So I urge you to support Bill 2303-2, which is more important and more acceptable to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u3	Do you have everything? Any questions for the reporter? None. None. Ladies and gentlemen, the second bill is a statement: given the conclusion of the committee, we ask you to withdraw from the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 2303-1, the People's Deputy of Lithuania and the People's Deputy of Bojarski. So they're going to report second. You won't. This is a proposal to vote to parliaments and to withdraw this bill from the Supreme Council's consideration. I would like to vote off the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill No. 2301-1 of 21.02.2013. Members, please vote. [[16:08:16]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] Come back? I ask you to take your seats and vote for yourself, and everything will be fine. Who's to go back to the bill 2303-1? Members, please vote. Come back. [[16:09:06]] For 271 Against - 1, held - 10, did not vote - 88. Decision taken. Now. I'd like to sign up for a minute. Chewchenka, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u4	Unfortunately, our colleagues had an unpleasant situation with a nonpersonal vote: Today our colleague Vasiliev voted several times for himself and his neighbor. We've got this in multiple photos, and we've just seen it on video. I very much apologize to all colleagues who have to go back. Fortunately, the vast majority of colleagues vote in person, but in this case, I think we need to insist once again on voting. I'm asking the people's deputies to vote for the return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Sit down, sit down, don't tell me. We have to vote. Sit down. Because you all want to learn, you need to work. I'll learn what to do. Ladies and gentlemen, please, we have agreed that we will vote for ourselves, we will not vote for our neighbor, but that the entire room is voting. Please. That's why I'm voting to go back to the session room of Bill 2303-1. Please vote deputies. [[16:11:23]] For 255 Decision taken. Once again, I ask the people's deputies, the one who passed the bill is asked to be removed from the Supreme Council. People's deputies are asking for a lift. I'm voting on who to remove bill 2303-1 from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm asking the people's deputies to vote. [[16:12:21]] For 304 Against 0, held – 5, not voted – 66. Decision taken. The bill of review has been removed. I ask the rapporteur, Ms. Dudenkova Alexander Valeriovich, to report the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I have registered an alternative bill 2303, which is called upon to unlock and resolve the issues that have arisen around land areas that have not been formed but are separate. You all know that since January 1, 2013, the Ukrainian Act on Change of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Distinguishing State and Municipal Property has become effective. In accordance with that law, it is recognized that the Ukrainian Law on the Distinguishment of Lands of State and Communal Property Act has ceased to apply, established criteria according to which countries are either state-owned or communal. Unfortunately, this norm is indeed progressive, it is called upon to move from a dead point of view the market that exists in the field of land relations, but this step is not final. Why? Because, in fact, the territorial communities were deprived of the ability to manage the land in question. There is an urgent need to register property rights of a State, a territorial community, in the specified land areas, in order to manage these areas. This requires adequate financial resources in local budgets to prepare and develop land-based documentation. Regrettably, there are no adequate financial resources in the local budgets, and both the local communities and the individuals and the legal entities, in fact their rights are violated because of the fact that these land areas cannot be the object of civil relations. The essence of the legislative initiative is that, unlike previous bills, we propose to register the law of the State and the territorial community at the same time as the state registration of the derivative goods law, namely: the right to rent, the right to use, the right to servitude, the emphytevsis on the basis of documentation with the land registry developed by interested persons. The procedure will be carried out as follows: the decision is taken by the relevant authorities of local self-government, the government authorities regarding the provision of appropriate land for use, the continuous use, and the servitude. On the basis of this decision, land - based documentation is developed at the expense of interested persons (physical, legal). Once the land’s documentation has been approved, a derivative of the goods is registered without the obligation to register the property of the State. Then, after registering a derivative of property rights in the Single State Register, the authorities of the local government turn to the relevant registration services and the State Land cadastre and register the appropriate ownership of the State of the territorial community on the basis of the documentation developed by those legal and natural persons. In fact, the legislative initiative, first of all, allows for higher income tax revenues in the form of rents of state and municipal property and land taxes, because a corresponding lease agreement will be entered into. Secondly, it will provide an opportunity to use these land areas of interest to natural, legal persons. Accordingly, we also propose in this bill. I propose in this bill on cadastral numbers, which have been defined but not assigned to land allocations, that they are assigned, because many natural persons who have shaped ownership of the land in question have not been able to form them and bring them in accordance with the State Land cadastre. In view of the urgency of this issue, it is essential for all the local communities, because the land market has actually become, and the land areas that we have not formed are very large, I propose that we accept it as a basis for the first reading. Well, if you were to support it, of course it would be better in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the author of the law? None. Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of the Kings, Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! Today, no public and communal property lease is signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, an urgent law, local self-government, requests that it be adopted as a matter of urgency. That's why we asked and did everything we could to get him into the hall immediately. The opinion of the Committee's deputies is to support it. In addition, support not only in the first but also in general. As far as I know the position of Goskomzem, the bill has been well drafted, correctly and clearly. You can have it right away. I ask Vladimir Vasilievich to support not only the first reading but also the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u8	I didn't hear what he said! What's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u9	I can report again from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u10	No, a committee proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u11	Support the law of Dudenkov in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u12	Got it. Deputies! I'm asking the factions to sign up for a bill discussion. The factions ask me to sign up, and then the MPs. The Fatherland faction, Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u13	Please pass the word to Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u14	Please, Arseny Yatzenuk. Turkov, please, I don't see a reporter anywhere. Is he or isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u15	Honorable Members of Parliament! The faction considered the bill. And we have clearly defined the need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u16	Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Angular.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u17	Taras Kutov, impact faction. We will support this bill. And thanks to the MPs, what they really paid attention to. And really on the committee it was determined that the law of Dudenkova was the very workable and complete in terms of accepting it today in the session room. But I would like to point out that today we are not moving forward heroically, but we are making heroic corrections to the mistakes that even the government understands today that these mistakes have been made. So besides this bill, we have a few more bills ahead of us that we are working on in our committee to correct the mistakes that have already been made today. In fact, the work of agribusinesses today, the work of farmers on many issues is blocked, and sometimes it is even the basis for some prosecution of these agrarian enterprises. Therefore, it is vital that this bill be supported today. And I support the report by the head of the subcommittee on what it is worth to vote on today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u18	I understand that you support the bill that I passed on behalf of the Commission of Kings. Yeah? Yeah, right? Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions responded very quickly to the appeal of local authorities to bring the problems encountered by landowners into line. Therefore, amendments to the Law on State Registration and Restriction of Property Rights are provided for temporarily until 31 December 2014 for State registration of property rights in public or municipal property. In particular, the rights of use of the service, the right to permanent use, the right to rent, the right to submarine, the right to use for agricultural purposes, the right to build, the right to superphycication shall be exercised without the State registration of the right of State or municipal property to certain land. I believe that the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions reflects the party's facilities and programme facilities, which focus primarily on the realization of the rights of local self-government and the protection of the rights of ordinary citizens of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports the initiative of Deputy Tsarev to vote in favour of the bill on first reading and second reading as a whole as a law because it is essential and will be supported by the people of Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u20	Freedom Union, stand by. The bug's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u21	Please give the word to my brother, Ruslan Martinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u23	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support it. Bill 2303-2, because of the bill in question, is better legally written and deals with the question of the renewal of previously concluded leases. That's why we're going to be supportive. But what we want to say is that this is not a panacea, because this bill will not solve the problems of local communities, such as the settlement of the separation of state and municipal lands. Nor does it solve the problem of local self - government, namely, the financing of land survey work, and the preparation of acts for land allocation by local communities. Individually, today’s unthinkable decisions by the Party of the Regions in 2012 have led to a collapse in the registration of land leases as of January 1. Today, people cannot register their farmland that they process. Today, these problems actually concern citizens, legal persons, small and medium - size businesses. So we will definitely support it, but we warn that today those reforms that the Party of Regions has implemented on land issues, on architectural issues, on building issues lead to the fact that local self-government has been deprived of land rights, on architectural issues. And the question of countries, the question of sustainable control, is the question of parables in tongues. Today, people and communities have no influence on what is being built in our cities, how land is being formed today. And as a result, communities lose thousands and thousands of dollars of budget money that could go to kindergartens that could go to our roads that could go to the development of local infrastructure throughout Ukraine. That is why we today call on all deputies to support the bill, and it needs to be adopted not only in the first reading but also in general. So we ask all the deputies and we propose to adopt Bill 2303-2 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov as a whole. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u24	Thank you. I'm begging you, the factions are speaking. I'm asking you to sign up for the deputies. Please sign up with the deputies. Post-faction national MP Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The question of land is the existence of a Ukrainian state. I would like to remind you that in the Parliament of the past, they tried to pass a bill on the land market, which would allow us to buy our precious Ukrainian land for a penny, sell it, buy it in cash, sell it to people, sell it for billions, sell it to people from Latin American countries or African countries, and earn it again without doing anything. We are firm against the sale of land. But today, landowners, primarily peasants, are nominally owners, and they are not. Look at the rent on the pies. For a long time, there should be 5-7 percent in many villages in most of Ukraine pay 3 percent for renting pies. Rotten grain is leased for rations. Here I was recently in the district of Opuchiv – 4,000 hectares [4,000 ha] of land. The owner of 61 percent of the shares, such as Bondarchuk, has not paid dividends for 39 percent of the shares in three consecutive years — usually elderly (80 years of age, 80 years of age) on Victory Day, not a bag of grain, not a bag of sugar. "To drown, swallow!" - in the words of the classic. 20 million dollars of income last year, and not a penny to those grandparents who put their lives up, picked up that radgossop, and didn't give a penny to dividends. As a result, I appeal to the Attorney General to the governor of the Kyiv region of the Jury: Take him as a beggar and shake the money out of him! Let the common peasants have the money they made for us! Life in that village has been laid down and there are no dividends! The mouse didn't give the beans! Insomnia! And how many in Ukraine are so unconscionable? And all this goes wrong with the Party of Regions, because if there was a normal government. Where's the government now? Why is there no one on the government stand? Do grandmas pee in the office?Oh, my God! Instead of coming here to the Supreme Council, report on what they do for people. Ivan Ivanovich, government officials here: Azarov, vice-premiers, ministers and so on. Why, you are robbing people instead of reporting to the people! To sum it up. I got a phone call from Bachmach, it's my constituency, people from three nights take turns in the registration department to register land leases. Two registrants all over the Bahamas. The elderly, 70 years of age, are sleeping on the stairs, changing the situation radically and in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u26	That's enough, you've been talking for three minutes. The Freedom Union of the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u27	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u28	National deputy Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u29	Dear MPs, Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolish. Indeed, the situation that has now taken place with the problem of land allocation is practically catastrophic in the Ukrainian State. I can, for example, give examples of the lawlessness that is taking place in Ternopolska today. This is the town of Ternopil, our area has the only practically most prepared biotlon base in the village of Suburban. And at the direction of the governor of the administration, this land was virtually distributed. And today, a world champion in the biotlon of Helen the Peanut has lost its biotonic base. You can imagine the boundaries and sizes of this bribery, the looting of the land within the area. We're talking about the area and the administration. Appropriately, such acts, such as those of the last. My MPs have been told that 5,000 hectares in the area of head of administration have been handed over to unknown persons who have nothing to do with our country. Land is given to entrepreneurs who have long since lost their entrepreneurial activities, forest conditions, and community - based stakes for local councils, and practically their territories are given land. For example, in the Ternopil region, the head of the administration distributed land to peasants who belonged within the village to various entrepreneurs, and this was practically done before the elections for large bribes. Accordingly, this situation, which we see daily, is that corruption, bribery is distributed to the left and we have to pause to the right. Today we are in general this referendum by this reform, which was approved by the Party of Regions as early as last year on the acquisition of property rights and property rights and land rights, which are now under the authority of the State Commission, we have put in a situation where the local communities have completely lost their influence. This is what has led to the deterioration of the budget, not to local communities, but to central authorities. And these powers are getting more and more. So of course, we have to support this bill now in the light of the first possibility. Because the local communities today do not have the right, the ability to establish ownership of land primarily, as provided by law, and to separate municipal and state property from the lack of funds in the budget. And that's why we're going to be hostages of entrepreneurs, of people who have leases that have virtually a privatisation license, they can't do that. And we have to be able to divide the boundaries between the population points. That is why such a bill should be adopted. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u30	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u31	Respectful colleagues, indeed, are keen to resolve the issue of the Single Register of Property Rights, not just inadequacies, but calculations and errors. And I think the Ministry of Justice has this sin to take away. And I am grateful to those deputies who today have prepared laws that correct this mistake. In particular, first of all, it is not possible to rent a land that is owned by a rural community, that is, from the land of supply and reserve, with the legislation that exists today. And what does that mean? If there's a good farmer in the territory who's been processing this land for years and giving the community some money that went into social development, he can't do that today. If he drills and sows this land, he's called by the prosecutor's uncle because you had no right. If he does not plow it, what kind of hosts do we have in Ukraine when we allow ourselves to walk the Ukrainian land? This law corrects the error, but it is still half right. The worst situation is that the entire registration, the production of all documents, firstly, large queues, secondly, unattainable high prices, thirdly, has been fertilized by government authorities, the mass of private offices, as they have been sucked into like parasites and, using these orders, people are demanding insurmountable salaries. And in general, imagine a situation where a village council in some private office is supposed to produce documents for their own, for the state, and now for the public land. So this is just the first step, a great debt by the legislators: after the adoption of the Millennial Codex, to give him a good governmental understanding and life. So the work behind us is still ahead. Thank you. We support the law of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u32	Ukraine's Company, Kudra's People's Deputy. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u33	I'm handing over the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u34	Yes, please be prepared, attention! By speaking out of our faction today on the draft law that we are considering, I would like to say immediately that we will vote and vote, understanding that this law will not, in fact, solve the problems that today characterize our Ukrainian village. I want to remind you what happened to the Ukrainian village in 20 years: the colchuses and neighbors were destroyed. They said that the private, the farmer and the person who would work on the ground would work more effectively. At the same time, livestock, which had 24 million cattle in Soviet times, is now smaller in Ukraine than on 1 January 1934, that is, after the famines and tragedies of 1932-1933. Today, we are faced with the fact that by destroying colchasses and neighbors and handing out pies, the life of peasants has not been better. And the prospect for the village is determined by the fact that young people do not believe in the policy that is being pursued in Ukraine because it has left the village. And today, only our dear old men are left in the village alone. Kolhods and neighbors destroyed, the economy fell, livestock farming I've already said is in what condition. You won't see the tractor brigade in the country today, you won't see the farm in the country. Clubs and libraries have been slaughtered, and federal obstetrics and schools are closing today. The village isn't built, it's destroyed. And in Ukraine, when we go, we see a picture of houses falling apart. Speaking of the twenty-first century, and thus of land policy, it must be acknowledged that the Company's assessments were objective and fair. By failing to support the owner of the pie, the State has deliberately created preconditions for looting the Ukrainian village and destroying the last potential of our land. So once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Company's faction sees its task and offers today as measures to support the village – cheap loans for our peasant to be able to buy a national combine, tractor, agricultural and mineral fertilizers. Secondly, to immediately restore agriculture to state control today and to ensure the real delivery of equipment to our village. Thirdly, chemicals are under special control today, because the price policy on mineral fertilizers, when there are no organic fertilizers today and the rubber of the land is destroyed, must be directed to ensure that, in real support of the village, there is a high yield in our village. I am convinced that there must be a State policy today to support the Ukrainian village in order to protect the Ukrainian market. Note: Potatoes are imported from Egypt, shrimp from Israel, meat from Argentina! What about Ukrainian? These are the oruts that have gone astray from Ukraine for all these years! He's in the Ternopolis area, it turns out he's not the master, he's the master.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u35	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u36	I'm done. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I am addressing you today. In support of the bill, a decision must be taken to radically change the policy of supporting Ukraine's agrarian complex today so that Ukraine can actually feed its people and ensure food security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u37	The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. Take it easy. We've been looking at two bills, that's why. Two bills were considered, not one! Two! So the conclusion of the committee is that 2303-2 is to be accepted as a basis and 2,303 is left to be rejected. I'm here to make sure you remember the committee's decision. So it's in order for these bills to be passed. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on draft Act No. 2303 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property as a basis. Please vote. [[16:40:58]] For-68 Against 25, held – 101, not voted – 193. The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I am voting on draft Act No. 2303-2: amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[16:41:53]] For 366 Against - 0, held – 0, not voted – 35. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 174, Fatherland 70, Vitaly Calla 37, Freedom 33, Company 30, non-fractional 22. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? There is a proposal, draft Law 2303-2: to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property in general. Please vote. [[16:43:02]] For 363 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 40. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 169, Parenthood 69, Vitaly Klitka Block 39, Freedom 32, Company 30, non-fractional 24. The draft Law is being considered by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau (registration number 2218). There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[16:44:06]] For-167 89, held – 39, not voted – 109. Decision taken. Please, Arseny Petrovich will report? Ukrainian National Deputy Yacenuk Arsenij Petrovich as author.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u38	Mr. Chairman! Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Bill on the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. This is a joint bill, three opposition factions. The Fatherland faction, the Freedom faction and the Strike faction believe that one of the biggest problems that exists today in Ukraine is total corruption. Total corruption that destroys the Ukrainian state, which washes billions of dollars out of the Ukrainian budget, which enriches the unit of officials, but makes millions of Ukrainians poor. We can bring in dozens of different ratings and polls, according to which Ukraine is ahead of the entire planet, equal to the corruption of senior state officials. Without solving the problem of corruption, Ukraine will not sign a treaty with the European Union and will not come out of the economic social crisis it is in today. One important and effective mechanism to fight corruption is to create a real body, and we would like to stress here separately, an independent body to combat corruption and corruption. This authority has been given special powers. We believe that the creation of a national anticorruption office not only meets our obligations to our European partners, but primarily meets our obligations as deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the millions of our citizens who voted in the last parliamentary elections and who are loathed to bribe from a mild to a top official. Today, in Ukraine, corruption is led by the President and the government. And that's why the National Anti-Corruption Bureau will be empowered to conduct anti-corruption checks on all senior officials of the state, starting with the President, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u40	Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A separate law has been introduced with a proposal for a national anti-corruption illustration, and this law will be voted on. I am now turning to the faction of the Party of the Regions to support the committee's decision and to vote in favour of the bill. This is our commitment to the Ukrainian people, this is our commitment to European partners, and this is our real chance to turn Ukraine into a truly prosperous European state, not a country of oligarchs and wealthy officials. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u41	Please welcome the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u42	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to say that we have taken a very big step in the last three weeks to fight and combat corruption in the country at all. Today we have a chance to take a few more effective steps that can go into the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism and that's really fair. Today, you are considering the draft Law 2218 on the Establishment of the Anti-Corruption National Bureau. I want to say that he's already had several conversations in this session hall, even once this National Anti-Corruption Bureau has been created, but without any legislative basis, no people, no finances or anything else. And that's why we have today exactly the situation of corruption that we have. We are now one of the last countries under Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index. I think it's time for us to take the next steps and get out of this deaf corner of corruption. And I would also like to say that this bill gives us all a chance to implement a few key international recommendations for us that we have. This is GRECO's first recommendation to create a truly independent anti-corruption body in the country. That's why the legislators or the authors of the legislative initiative went to some, let's say, over-authorization of the constitutional capacity for the creation, creation and operation of this anti-corruption office. But the committee, after considering this draft law at its meeting, said a unanimous yes to this bill and took the responsibility of redrafting it for second reading in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. So I propose, on behalf of the committee, to support this bill and to adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. Please, Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Give me your word. National Deputy Osuhovski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u44	Oleg Osuhovski, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 152 constituency, city of Raven. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head! Today we must adopt a very important law with you for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people. This is the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, which is based today in the fight against corruption in Ukraine, which constantly requires us to accept the European Union. We know that today billions are being stolen from the state budget, billions are being exported to offshore areas. I want to give an example, even from my district, of the city of Raven. The reconstruction of the small prenatal center is allocated 80 million dollars. These can be built in several such prenatal centers throughout Ukraine. And then the audit office in the Plains region gives statistics that were ineffectively used in the Plains region in two years, think about 700 million dollars. So 700 million dollars were stolen from people. Dear Society, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau will be an independent body that will be subordinated only to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be formed from the special departments of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, i.e. the UBZU of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service. And there must be highly qualified coworkers who must be able to get through the illustrations that are to be protected. They have both social and materially, and they are also physically members of their families. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support this bill and also urge every MP to support this law to vote because it is important for Ukraine and every Ukrainian. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u45	It's Vitaly Klitschka, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u46	The fact that corruption needs to be tackled is clearly understood by the regionals, and the communists have long understood the opposition from the beginning, and certainly our Faction Vitalia Klitka in particular. I want all ordinary Ukrainians to understand why retirement age is increasing. Because someone steals money from the budget and has to increase your retirement age by five years to keep pushing your back against those who steal the state budget. I want simple entrepreneurs to understand why they're increasing taxes, why they're taxing small businesses and especially corruption taxes today. But because, again, the same officials steal the government budget by billions and you have to work more day and night, risk losing your job every day, or someone has taken advantage of your work and your taxes. I want teachers to understand and understand why schools are closed and why hospitals are closed. Again, because tens of thousands of Ukrainian officials continue to steal the Ukrainian budget, what our great-grandparents formed, our parents. I want us to understand why we have bad roads. Once again, because of repairing these roads, officials steal money. I want us to understand why we have a low quality Ukrainian policy today, why we have a parliament today that we don't trust, and why we have a state today that's uncompetitive in the world's economic markets, again because in the Supreme Council, in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the President's Office, there are suitcases of money that are called political corruption. The Vitaly Call of Impact faction, the opposition, and I'm pretty sure it's going to expose ours today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u47	The Fatherland faction, Yavorowski, will prove he's in your seat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! If I'm not mistaken, Jerzy Letz said, "When everything's in place, there's not enough room." I am absolutely convinced of that. Today, Ukraine, in fact, is losing operational space in our eyes, losing faith in its future primarily because of colossal pervasive corruption, which today has covered completely all levels both vertically and horizontally. Please tell me, in which country is it still visible that the president's son, a dentist, will earn one and a half billion dollars in one year? How many seals and teeth did the Ukrainians have to tear out to earn that crazy money? In which country there may still be when the minister earns about 40 million in fictitious overhangs. You could call it today, you could call it. We live in Ukraine, where helicopters are built, but no one sits on them because they say Janukovic is convinced that helicopters are more dangerous to fly than cars. But he was convinced that after the built helipads, one of them was made to be pussies, give it to me, from Latvia. That's the kind of country we live in. Today, to believe that the authority that declares that it wants to see and very much wants to fight corruption, but it actually supports, spins and protects this corruption. Because of this today, to believe that the authorities are capable of fighting corruption alone is an absolute fiction, it is absolute wickedness. Because of the idea that three leaders have put forward today, the opposition to create an independent anti-corruption office that exists. And in Ukraine it is essential, even though it exists in many lands. It's a strong idea, it's a healthy idea. I have little faith that the Party of Regions will vote in favour of this bill, but I think we should do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u49	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u50	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The bill proposes the creation of another body to combat corruption. A very interesting approach: To fight corruption, it turns out to be the creation of another body! What I'm saying is that it's about forming a state authority with special status. But they are generally all listed in the Constitution of Ukraine. Then it is about creating a new body with special status that will duplicate others. We already have 20 percent of Ukrainian citizens in pursuit today, let's add to that. Another moment that I wanted to pay attention to. Here one of the drafters of the bill, who introduced the bill, was very active in stressing that he and his colleague had a commitment to Europe. The Communist faction has no obligation to Europe, we have a commitment to our own people. Most importantly, in order to avoid corruption, it is necessary to stop stealing on a perennial basis, beginning with the average citizen and ending with the highest officials. Because you know, there are situations when you have to ask questions from time to time. Well, let's say where did the children's trade come from? Need an explanation? We know. Another question is, Where did the money set aside to fight the flood? No bridges, no roads, no money. So, dear colleagues, I think. The faction of the Company of Ukraine thinks that this is the creation of a second-hand feed for the benefit of officials. Thank you. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u51	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National Deputy of the Malisev. Please. And a minute is a non-factionable Easy and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft law itself on the establishment of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is essentially worth due attention, but cannot be adopted on the following grounds. First, it is not in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, since article 17 of the Constitution does not provide for the existence of law enforcement agencies with special status, this makes it impossible. Secondly, the decision of the issues raised in the bill falls within the competence of the President of Ukraine and goes beyond the power of Parliament. See articles 85, 106 of the Constitution. Thirdly, the National Anti-Corruption Committee is already in operation with the President of Ukraine. Fourth, Nazburo will duplicate other law enforcement agencies. The State Bureau of Investigation, for which we will vote with you, whose establishment is envisaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u54	One second. enters a conflict with the new Code of Criminal Procedure. Let's clean up, dear friends, populism, and we'll only act by law. I propose that this bill be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u55	One minute, please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, why deceive yourself and people? Let's be honest, we'll create ten, twenty, thirty anti-corruption bureaux and the anti-corruption situation will not change for one reason, because we have twenty years of corruption. What, the courts aren't corrupt, the D.A. isn't corrupt, the police, the D.A.? From the top to the bottom, and to the parliament, everything is pervaded by corruption. And generally, the struggle against corruption is the most common issue among those who have sown their noses in that corruption. I suggest we start fighting corruption from the Supreme Council. I propose to show you right now the example of fighting corruption, stopping the mandate of the members of the carcasses who betrayed their electorate, and stopping the authorization of those leaders of the political forces who sold seats on the parliamentary lists to those carcasses who brought to Parliament the carcasses that betrayed the electorate who changed the will of the people, that most Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u58	That most Ukrainians voted in favour of the opposition, and in Parliament we have an unnatural majority of the Party of Regions. Let's start with ourselves, gentlemen, fighting corruption! Let’s talk about how they were repaired as soon as they became executives, toilets, reception rooms, and everything else, and then we’ll talk about fighting corruption! Don't climb on the mirror if the flower's curved! There's a folk saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm betting on a draft bill (registration 2218) on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for adoption. Please vote. [[17:03:22]] For-166 Against the 18th. It's been held up to 49. There was no vote – 171. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 78, Vitaly Klicka Block 39, Freedom Party 35, Company 0, Postfractional 12. There's no motive. Let's move on. Let's work. The draft Law (Registration No. 2219) on the anticorruption review of officials of all levels is under consideration. How will we consider this question? I'll bet you a vote for the shorter procedure. Please vote. [[17:04:35]] For-167 Against 82, held – 47, not voted – 110. Decision taken. I invite you to comment on the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u60	You know, Mr. Head, before reporting on this bill, I'm sitting here, and I think you're in a hurry to remove the issue of non-discrimination of sexual minorities today. Mr. Head, I'd like us to go back to the real fight against corruption. A party of regions has just failed one of the key bills. This is the bill with which, by the way, your President Viktor Janukovic spoke about the need to create a separate national anti-corruption body. And I'm surprised at the position of the majority faction that refuses to adopt a bill that aims at a real fight against corruption. Which is aimed at creating, for the first time in 20 years, an independent -- we emphasize, independent -- body to fight corruption, which would, by the way, be accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear faction of the Party of the Regions! Why don't you give yourself the opportunity to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people to really get a real mechanism to fight corruption. Your position is clear. Those who have led corruption are not going to fight corruption. The bill represents the second part of the previous law, which provides for the introduction of a so - called national anti-corruption declaration. By this law, we want to introduce a procedure: first, a special examination of all senior officials (and attention!) and members of their families about the availability of property, assets, accounts, shares, any other.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u62	any other assets. And to reveal that in the last three years, the relevant official and family members have been buying and selling. The other one. We also want to introduce a mandatory cost declaration procedure. Not the one that was introduced today, 80,000 dollars. And the one that corresponds to the real purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens today. If you've spent more than 10 minimum wages, you're either a national MP or you're president to report it. And finally. If you're using whatever property you don't have in the declaration, you have to show me what you're using that property and how much money you're using, and whether the real price is paid for using that property. We want to create a real mechanism of really transparency in the public service. To make people feel what is going on in Ukraine, not in words, but in the fight against corruption. We're talking to the Party of the Regions the other day. Vote for the bill of three opposition factions. This is what the people of Ukraine require. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u63	I would like to invite the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, Victor Vasilovich Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u64	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! You know, we really could have taken very serious steps today to fight corruption by adopting these two other laws that you thought were right. Bill 2219 defines the mechanism for the implementation of the requirements of Article 12 of the basic anti-corruption law "On Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption". The main purpose of these provisions, as defined in the basic law, is to define at the legislative level the principles of checking the conformity of the assets declared by the officials. That is what we could have done by adopting two bills — 2218, 2219. Once again, I would like to stress that this is also the requirement of all the international organizations with which Ukraine is cooperating in anti-corruption policy. We could have taken enough and should have made a fundamental decision as to the need to implement the procedure proposed by the authors of the law to verify the validity of the declarations of officials. A committee that takes into account all your suggestions will do whatever it takes to bring it into line with domestic legislation. And the main thing is, indeed, the requirement of today's Ukrainian society. That is why I propose to this committee, and I propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u65	Thank you. People's deputies, please sign up from factions for two in favor, two in favor. Please, People's Deputies, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! The Vitalia Klicka faction believes that the fundamental alternative to the situation that is now in the state, with every citizen's right to a just life, corruption has eaten, destroyed and shown its aggressive face. The non-voting of the right-hand side of the room for the creation, at last, of the anti-corruption office, showed that in fact the national budget is not going to return to the people. The other one. We affirm and insist that, at the end of the day, it is proposed to the state and other ways of development when national money and budget money are under control, when money cannot be stolen in medicine, in construction, in sports, in culture, in Ukrainian schools. That's why we support and will be consolidated to vote, the Vitalia Calla faction, for the beginning of an anti-corruption illustration in the state. Anti-corruption illustration, starting with, we repeat, from top officials. In addition, we commit ourselves and will seek to ban the budget from financing unwarranted privileges of national deputies, ministers, prime minister, president and other officials. Neither protection nor villa nor other privileges that are paid for the national budget are justified. We argue that this budget should be aimed at social programs. The government needs to start saving itself and start fighting corruption needs to be done from the very top. In principle, it is important, and we urge everyone to vote in favour of an honest approach, to clean up at last, to start with corrupt authorities. Power in Parliament, in the government and in the President's Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u67	The Fatherland faction, the Exquisite.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u68	Andrey the Pious, the Fatherland faction. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Moscal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u69	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u71	It's on. It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make sure everything's heard. On 20 November 2010, the President of Ukraine at the Ukraine-EU summit in Brussels adopted a Plan of Action for the Liberalisation of the Visa Regime, which clearly states that the creation of Ukraine's commitment, the creation of an independent anti-corruption bureau. You'll be ashamed that if you get a call from the President's Administration and you praise this law and vote, and run for the rostrum one by one, pushing a friend. This is what your president took on. Why don't you vote? And the second. Why do we make these declarations? For the macular? They are linked to our personal affairs and the personal affairs of all officials. I wanted people today who can hear us to understand this is the sabotage of fighting corruption on the part of the Party of Regions. No one checks the declaration. There is no responsibility for invalidating the declaration. Only responsibility for the timely and untimely submission of declarations has been established. The rest is all fiction, macularity. Hence, it is still suggested that officials should check whether they are writing the truth of what they declare in their declarations. Or it's all a lie. So 90 percent is a lie and it's not built up and there's no responsibility. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of your constituents? Then tell me today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u74	I'm glad you're here today to lie to your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u75	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u76	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u77	Oleg Knaczykki, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, it is very unfortunate that today the Ukrainian Parliament has shown what makes it only a form of fighting corruption, but there really is no intention to eradicate corruption from Ukrainian society. Those bills, which were adopted this morning, they, as I have already spoken during their discussion, were discussed during their meeting with representatives of the European Union. In fact, the representatives of the European Union made it a condition that the basic law should be the illustration in Ukraine and the creation of a special bureau for such a illustration. The bill, which had just been rejected, provided for the creation of a illustrative body, not another law enforcement body. We don't have any law enforcement powers. In fact, there is more corruption in law enforcement. Therefore, it is not appropriate to assign such functions to any of the law enforcement agencies where this corruption is. Please tell us how corruption can be tackled when there is a court decision today to hold officials accountable for corruption and these officials continue to work. A person who is recognized as a corrupter depends on the head of the body whether he will release her or not. Of course there can be no such thing. And the bill that has been proposed suggests that in the case of a person’s conviction as a corrupter, such a person is released and cannot be appointed for the next five years. We'll never have an effective fight against corruption until we have a mirroring mechanism. Because it will not be overcome until corruption has been removed from government positions and local authorities. It also requires that other than that category that applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u79	Finish
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u80	The removal of corruption also needs to be eliminated by both communists and former Cambodians, because corruption did not appear in Ukraine alone, but was inherited from the Communist system. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u81	Party of regions, National Deputy of Malisev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, like this bill, cannot be adopted at the present time. I'll explain on what grounds. First, the resolution of the issues raised in the bill falls solely within the competence of the President of Ukraine. Please read the Constitution, articles 85 to 106. Secondly, it duplicates the Ukrainian Act on Main Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, which sets out the basic principles for preventing and combating corruption. Dear Arsenius Petrovich and respected Gennady Gennadievich! I assure you that I am treating you as a lawyer: please prepare those laws that will really help fight corruption. That's when it's gonna be the right thing to do. Before the election of the President, my dear ones remain for a very long time and do not have to pry and deceive our ordinary citizens. Therefore, I also propose that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u83	Thank you. One minute, National Deputy Lazko and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u84	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My colleague, the distinguished Arsenius Yatsenuk, who calls himself the leader of the opposition, has just regretted that Parliament has today withdrawn a bill on discrimination against sexual minorities. I think Parliament has made the right decision, I think in our country enough problems that we have to solve: creating jobs, providing young people with jobs, housing, increasing pensions for older people, raising wages for workers who live for a penny, lowering prices for medicines, housing services. Now, when you hope, including overcoming corruption, and then when we solve all the pressing problems in the country, we will consider, at Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk's suggestion, the protection of sexual minorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u85	Let's move on to making a decision. One minute, faction of the Party of Regions, Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to answer one of the speakers here who made a fiery speech and spoke about the fight against corruption referring to where the roots of this corruption came from. I would like to emphasize once again that when Communists were in power in the Lviv region, the Lviv region was developing, building, building roads, the city, building an enterprise. And today, when nationalists, like the Mach, speak out of the rostrum in power, they are now stretching out the Lviv area, virtually, so let's say, there's nothing left. Where did we share the Lviv Bus Plant, where Kinescope, where other enterprises, where the pride of the Soviet Ukraine, when Lviv took part in the space program, were the most powerful scientific centres? And all of this was done by the Communists. When the nationalists and their oligarchs are in power today, they stretched everything out. With the weeds, the land of the lions has grown, for there half the land is now marshmallowed. So I'd like to remind you of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u87	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of bill number 2219: "On anti-corruption review of officials of all levels" for adoption as a basis. Vote the deputies, please. [[17:22:37]] For 201 Against 9, held – 51, did not vote 146. The decision is not taken. Factions: The Region Party is 0, Fatherland is 82, Vitaly Klicka is 38, Freedom is 35, the Company is 29, non-fractional is 17. Draft Act No. 2846 on the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 is under consideration (to improve the procedure for financial notes). How will we view it? Please, a reduced procedure, an offer made. Please vote. [[17:23:44]] For-173 Against 80, with 28, there was no vote of 121. Decision taken. I ask you to report to the author, the national deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenka Valery Pavlovich. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u88	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, drafts the bill with the aim of a comprehensive solution to the issue of the legislative settlement of the mechanism for the use of financial bills. The draft law provides for the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the order of issuance, circulation and payment of financial bills, treasury bills issued by the central executive authority, which administers treasury services in accordance with the State Budget Act for the year in question, the granting of deadlines until 1 January 2014 to the authorities responsible for the treasury service of budgetary resources, to reimburse taxpayers of the tax on the added value by issuing financial treasury bills, the setting up of collection payments for the development of grapes, gardening and hops to the general State Budget Fund. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funds from government and local budgets. I believe that the implementation of the bill will have a positive impact on the expenditure of the State budget, which will contribute to the effective provision of conditions and the application of financial bills for debt-making, including budgeting, including the processing of fees for the cost-added tax. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u89	Have a seat, thank you. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Geller Evgeny Borisovich, report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues at its session considered a bill amending the State Budget Act 2013 under the heading 2846, submitted by national deputy Omelchen Valérie Pavlovich. The rapporteur for this bill is presented. The application of financial notes is governed by the Tax and Budget Code. So today there are legislative grounds for making the proposed changes to the State Budget Act. While the application of promissory notes in the budget process has risks of lowering monetary accounts and weakening financial discipline, the temporary introduction of promissory notes in the context of significant budgetary debt may address the issue of repayment. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that an expert opinion of the government is needed in order to make a balanced decision on the bill. The Ministry of Finance and Nutzbank support the adoption of the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill number 2846 on the basis of consideration to be adopted in the first reading, adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law with proposals put forward in the Committee's letter. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Apparatus, is required to provide the necessary editorial and technical clarifications related to the approval by the Committee of Decisions on this bill when it is adopted by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u91	Thank you, have a seat. People's deputies, please sign up for the performances: two in support, two in support, two in opposition to factions. Leonov, Freedom Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u93	Please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u94	Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215 constituency, city of Kiev. Today and in general, during the meetings of the Supreme Council, we see attempts to bring forth various lobbying bills aimed at not meeting the needs of most Ukrainians at all, but at satisfying the economic interests of those or other clans who serve today's regime. And actually, the promissory situation is the most eloquent example, because what is trying to push today is nothing more than the complete destruction of Ukraine's budgetary system. We are well aware that, today, according to our Constitution and according to all the rules, according to budgetary legislation, we are actually only in the money. The budget only accounts for money. And now there's a situation where there's certain phantas, there's certainly nothing to back up the paperwork that's going to run the calculations. So we're essentially going back to the beginning of the 1990s in this plan, when we remember all of these financial schemes, and when we remember when the people were completely poor, and some of the individual people then got huge wealth. And what's happening today is just an example of how a certain political group, which most people today call a family, is that they actually want this bill to "push" and use this instrument of promissory notes to get rich. And in order to create a harmful illusion, when things like this are really mimicking real reforms, and real reforms are not happening and there are substitutes that are harmful to the economy. And every person has to understand that this applies directly to it because it destroys the budgetary system because it destroys the financial system of our state and, accordingly, destroys our sovereignty in general. So the Freedoms faction will vote against and call on all other deputies to vote against it as well. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u95	Party of regions, People's Deputy of China. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u96	Dear National Deputies! The fact that Ukraine’s economy is under very serious pressure is a negative process in both the European Union and the world economy: prices, demand, including traditional Ukrainian exports, are declining. The situation becomes even more responsible because the problem of the company’s circulation costs, including the high cost of credit in the commercial banking system, is exacerbated in Ukraine. So it is absolutely necessary, based also on the civilized world experience, to reduce financial pressure, to raise the cyclical costs of enterprises through the introduction of perennial circulation, as is the case in the economies of all developed countries. As a result, the bill is clearly worthy of support. Including, we need to note that according to the bill, the order of issuance, circulation, the payment of financial treasury bills is intended to be developed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, it is vital that we continue to take into account the possibility of a tax payer to account for his current obligations in the budget, including import duties and value added taxes, the principle of voluntary receipt of bills, strict control of the transparency of circulation, and payment of non-corruption schemes. On the basis of the above, we propose to support the bill as part of the system's work on the financial recovery of enterprises' costs and on this basis the creation of conditions for the further development of Ukraine's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u97	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! A bill that will now be considered in the session hall. Don't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u99	Did you turn on Soboleva's microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u100	The bill, which will now be considered in the session hall, has been discussed repeatedly with us. So let's figure out what this bill is proposing. We've been through this before. And we know what it ended up like -- multi-billion-dollar losses for businesses, money laundering and, in fact, destruction of businesses in Ukraine. Now let's move on. We're actually going back to the craze of the 1990s when now the budget is going to be calculated with local budgets and businesses through the release of promissory notes. Imagine the state of the local budgets and how these budgets will be approved in general when they realize that the availability of funds is not anticipated in the calculation of local budgets. So, first of all, the position of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and the entire Cabinet of Ministers that have decided in this way to solve the key issue. It is now possible not to issue living money to local budgets, but to actually write off millions of debts to teachers, doctors, in front of unbuilt hospitals, schools, kindergartens, in the manner proposed by the author of the bill. That's why the offer is very simple. This morning we passed a law to harmonise the fight against corruption with European legislation. There is one norm: it is a test for the corruption of drafters who make such decisions. I think this is exactly the option that needs to be applied when considering such a bill. That's why we have a faction decision: this bill will not be supported. And we believe that this bill will finally destroy Ukraine's financial and economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u101	People's MP Pinzenik, Vitalia Klitschak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u102	Honourable National MPs, Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, the draft law that is proposed for adoption includes not only VAT repayments, bill debt repayments, but also payment of the budget expenditure incurred on January 1st of this year. More simply, it is the introduction into budgetary practice of the financing of budgetary expenditure by paper bills. Obviously, the next step will be to make a decision to add notes to the tax liability budget. And then we have to make the next decision about ending the circulation of the bracelet, because it's going to be replaced by a new national currency called the bills. By its very nature, the promissory notes are a governmental obligation. It's no different from the D.O.D.D. But, that is, the release of promissory notes is a deficit in the budget. It's an increase in debt. But if the issue of the release of VAT is regulated by the State Budget Act, the proposed changes in the issuance of promissory notes, i.e. budget deficits, budgetary deficits. They're going to ransom the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this situation, the question arises at all, Should we consider the state budget? Moreover, our predecessors have approved an unprecedented rule in the budget that allows the government to exceed the legally approved number of public budget expenditure. But there is one principle of the difference between the UDP and the treasury bills. GDP is a voluntary contribution to the budget, voluntary loans. Treasury bills are declared voluntary because subjects are offered a very simple choice: You either get a piece of paper or you get nothing. Wexel is a form of forcing funds into the budget by defaulting on public budget obligations. In a civilized way, too, the UDP predicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u103	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u104	the promissory notes do not pay interest. I want to warn you that by adopting this law, Ukraine is leaping into barbaric ways of financing budgetary expenditure. And we'll be very close to losing control of public funds. The Vitalia Klitschka faction urges all national MPs who have lost their ability to think to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u105	The discussion is over. I'll bet you a vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft bill (No. 2846) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to improve the procedure for financial notes) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:39:10]] For 225 Against – 123, held – 3, not voted – 43. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please log in a minute from the factions. Well, what are we looking at for the first time? Let's put it to a vote. Because of the faction, everyone can express their thoughts. Curly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u106	I give up my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u107	Ukrainian Company, please. Please, Kudrija People's Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u108	I propose to re-vote this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u109	Right. The Fatherland faction, Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u110	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Sergei Sass, Fatherland. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that voting for the bill in the first reading and in general can only take place if there are no objections and observations by the Ukrainian national MPs. Such observations are, they have spoken, you have heard them. Therefore, Vladimir Vasilovich, please follow the Rules in this part. And the next. Vladimir Vasilovich, the bill voted 225 votes in favour, so according to the Rules, it is rejected and cannot re-apply to this session. Procedures for the return of the Rules of the Supreme Council are not provided for. Thank you for your attention. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u111	You don't just have to say the rules. You've been back a hundred times today, and now you're talking about the Rules. National MP Rosenko, please hit Vitalia Calla.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u112	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u113	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u114	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I'm not going to talk to professional things anymore, obviously they're not doing much work in this room. I'm talking to you, don't start a very dangerous thing, there's enough trouble in the country. I'm even afraid to predict the consequences of this decision that you want to make. Please, the project is not supported, take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u115	Please, Party of Regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u116	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! Part of the people, part one, part of the people failed to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Secondly, we ask that we return to the vote and put the vote on first reading, not generally, but on first reading. Please return and submit this bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u117	Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u118	May I have the floor to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u119	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u120	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Lord Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone of what took place in the first reading and in general, and in accordance with the Rules, we have no right to re-vote -- the law is rejected. And the capitalist party of Ukraine, I was right, the capitalist party of Ukraine showed its essence by this vote. They don't care if they get paid or if they don't get paid. I repeat, it's not Communist, you're now called the Capitalist Party of Ukraine. What you did today, you don't wash anything! And it's clear that you're dancing, and it's clear that you're stomping. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u121	The committee! The committee! I did. Ladies and gentlemen. All their thoughts have been expressed, and now everyone is silently voting for himself. I put the vote back on draft law, registration number 2846, to the vote. Please vote. [[17:44:37]] For 223
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u122	Honorable deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, we can resolve all matters without a vote. So let's move on. The decision is not taken. - 223 versus - 56, held - 0 did not vote - 115. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 177, Fatherland – 1, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 15. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why, if you don't have it.? A draft Act (No. 2847) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the procedure for financial notes) is under consideration. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on a vote: who, by a reduced procedure, votes, not screams, but votes. [[17:46:48]] For 176 Against 94, held – 15, not voted – 111. Decision taken. Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenka. Let's calm down, this is the last law we're considering today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u123	I want to thank you for the helplessness of our colleagues, who are not offering anything economically sound, but are seeking their own. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill is proposed by amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation to determine how financial treasury bills will be applied in 2013 and by removing the situation, which determines how the sums of the collection will be used for the development of grapes, gardening and hops. The draft law provides for the granting by 1 January 2014 of the right to the authorities carrying out treasury services of budgetary resources to compensate taxpayers for the value added tax by issuing financial treasury bills. The implementation of the bill will not require additional funds from government and local budgets. I believe that the introduction of the bill will help improve the quality of tax administration at added cost, create legislative grounds for the full functioning of the financial billing tool. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u124	Thank you. Have a seat. Welcome to Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna. Hometic, please, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u125	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! This bill is directly linked to the previous draft, so if it is voted, and this is about changes to the tax bill on the possibility of applying treasury bills, then it will certainly be necessary to go back to the vote and adopt, at least, a bill on amendments to the budget code. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this is not about the taxpayer’s duty, that he is obliged to take treasury bills, but that it is possible, at the request of the taxpayer, to use such a tool as is proposed by the State. And today, in our committee, for example, there are a lot of letters from associations and entrepreneurs asking us to vote in favour of this law, so that we can get a financial tool that the entrepreneur can continue to use in his business, including as collateral, as a possibility to refinance bank loans and other opportunities that are open to the taxpayer. That's why there's an offer. the proposal for a committee on this bill to vote on the basis. The only point to be made here is that there are issues that are not related to the financial notes and will have to be removed. It is about counting the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening, and hops. That is, with the exception of section 1, paragraph 2, the bill recommends the adoption of the bill. And if it's accepted as a basis, Vladimir Vasilovich, I suggest we go back to the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u126	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u127	And take it as a base. Because the Committee on Budgets offered it as a whole. I'm sure that's really not right. You'd have to take it as a basis, give it time to work on it. And by next week, we'll have to go back to our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u128	I'm asking you to register with the factions for discussion and we'll make a decision. Please, Fatherland faction, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u129	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. I want to give my word to my colleague, the Exquisite. But let's say that today's new term is Peter Mikolaiovich Wexel. Remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u130	The People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! I want to state publicly that the Council system has failed. My voice is wrong. I voted against this law. And I'm making a public statement about that. The system didn't work. The system was working wrong. Please take this into account. Unable to pass word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u131	All he's done is not a word. Party of regions, Koleshnichenko. Ask Sass, he'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u132	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! In his statement, Vitaly Homutinnik gave a very correct, very specific and substantive explanation of the problems faced by entrepreneurs today. At the same time, he described the policy of President Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic of Ukraine, "Ukraine for the People". Today, the faction of the Party of the Regions, as always, has shown interest in business development, business support, because it is the development of these industries that makes it possible to complete the budget that will finance both social programmes and improve the well-being of our people, enhance the sovereignty and security of our State. Of course, it is amazing to hear the voices, cries, and cries of those who today, while in a minority, call themselves “opposition”. Because for them, the worse for the country, the better for them. But we know and see clearly that these neo-Nazi organizations today do not enjoy support even in their areas. I would like to recall that four representatives of the Party of the Regions have arrived in the Roven area for five vacant seats. And it's in the Rowen County Council. Consequently, the Party of the Regions is on track to ensure the proper and necessary work of our business and our entrepreneurs. The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore proposes to support the draft law on first reading and further consider what amendments will be made. Thank you for your attention. City hero Sevastopol, glory to him!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u133	People's Deputy Sold, Vitaly Klitschak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u134	Oksana Prodan, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, the strike party has come to Parliament to create a level playing field in the economy, to provide all people with legal jobs and to enable people to earn decent wages and to receive decent pensions. That's why we've introduced a series of bills that create real conditions for business -- to develop, for people -- to work legally, and for pensioners to get protection and support from the state. At the same time, the Party of the Regions does not support any initiative of the strike faction, precisely those initiatives that are aimed at creating European business conditions and people's lives in Ukraine. With regard to the bill and the bloc of bills proposed to introduce bills, treasury bills into Ukraine’s economy, it is the mechanism proposed by the Party of Regions to legitimize today’s lawlessness of power. Because business today doesn't actually get VAT back in time or in time. Today, business has not yet received the calculations promised by the State for the work carried out before the Euro - 2012 era. And the proposed project, the government not only offers to forgive all its business debts, but it also prohibits business from using promissory notes to pay the government with budget bills. The adoption of this bill will not simply hinder business; the adoption of this bill will rob millions of people of jobs. Because washing the circulation costs will lead to people first not being able to pay their wages, secondly, to free people from their jobs, thirdly, we'll have an increase in prices on all consumer goods and we'll have criminal cases for not paying wages. Because the Criminal Code has not been rescinded. I very much ask all representatives of the MPs to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u135	Freedom faction, National Deputy Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u136	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u137	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u138	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, I want to talk about the lie of Kolechenko. In the "Freedom" region of Ravenna, there was a district in which she had won well. Therefore, we should not lie about walking in five circuits. Now for the promissory notes. What's happening now in the session room is they want to introduce the tested one in the '90s, a beautiful corruption scheme of very fast super enrichment. At the same time, they want to increase the emissions of money in the country, which will eventually lead to super inflation and poverty. Let me remind you of the correct truths: the bill is written for jobs, goods, services. And in many lands of the world, so - called golden bills are criminally responsible. What's going to happen is real. As soon as the financial bills are in place, benevolent companies will soon appear who, having a good relationship with treasury, will start buying these bills completely with a certain discount. First it's going to be 20, 30 percent, and then as it was with the "Centre Energo" bills in the '90s, the discount is going to be 70, 80 percent. Clearly, who will rule? With these firms and stuffing your pockets. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom opposes this bill. And it points out: enough to build a country of a bunch of oligarchs and millions of poverty. We Ukrainians are worthy of a life worth living in a rich country. And those who want to try what securities are, they're not secure, we encourage them to create pilot projects and get paid by these unsecured papers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u139	Thank you. The discussion was over. After the decision is made, I'll give it to you. The discussion is over. Please be prepared. No, no, no, no. Wait. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2847) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the procedure for financial bills) to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[18:00:06]] For 227 Against 99, holding – 1, not voting – 36. Decision taken. Kolenčenka, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u140	Respectable voters! The liars of their political party, who claim to be neo-Nazi philosophy, have just demonstrated their helplessness. Once again, I remind the inhabitants of the province of Rowena of Ukraine that in the elections of the Rowena Regional Council, Freedom party joined the opposition in five mandates, but neither knee-grabbing nor begging allowed them to deceive voters for the second time. The electors supported four representatives of the Party of the Regions, who became members of the Rowena Regional Council. Hail to the hero city of Sevastopol!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u141	Thank you! Homutinnik, please. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u142	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! There is a request, first of all, to vote in favour of a shortened procedure in preparation for the second reading. And secondly, there's a request to go back to the previous Law 2846, because one without the other doesn't work, these are absolutely two combined bills. But the only thing is, Vladimir Vasilovich, so that you don't put that bill in general, because many deputies didn't vote, because the committee's decision was "in general" and to take it as a basis and also after a reduced procedure to work until next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-05-14-m1.u143	Calm down, calm down. There are two factions of intermission invited, so I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
