ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:34]] There were 310 national deputies registered. Invite the deputies to the hall, the session begins. The MPs are still good. We'll register again. I see a lot of deputies fit. Is there a word to be asked? Turn on Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! We have to be principled in everything, so I'm asking you to block the missing Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk card. He's not in the hall, please lock his card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u3	He's the leader of the faction, who are we going to be tasked with doing this to? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see a lot of deputies came along. Once again, I ask the MPs to register. Turn on the "Race" system. Registered -351 Well, 351, they're still good. People's deputies are registered. Let's get to work. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I report on the establishment of a seventh interfractional parliamentary association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to facilitate settlement of the Transnistrian conflict. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gordijenko Sergey Volodymirovich, was elected head of the MPs ’ association on matters of promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the committee's proposals for parliamentary hearings. The draft Resolution (Registration 2030) on Parliamentary hearings on "Ecological problems in the extraction of salt gas in Ukraine" (also date: March 20, we have to agree on this date). There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. May I put it to the vote? Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[16:06:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Irina Igorovni Sekh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u4	Dear community, the Committee on Environmental Policy is proposing a draft Decision (I would like to stress unanimously) on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "Environmental problems of solar gas extraction in Ukraine." The signing by the State of Ukraine, Shell and Tov Nadra Yuzivska of a tripartite agreement on the distribution of hydrocarbons that will be mined within the area of Uzivska – and this is Donetsk and Kharkiv region – should give rise to the practical implementation of a large-scale project that is now under the care of the public, the power, the political and the world elite. There is today a similar agreement with Chevron regarding the Oleska area, which is in Lviv, Frankish and Ternopolish. A successful implementation of such projects could give an opportunity to achieve energy freedom and Ukraine's new, high-quality geopolitical status. But the implementation of such projects, which involve direct technological damage to the environment, is inevitable and objectively accompanied by a high level of potential environmental risks. The uplifting of society’s supposed tranquillity with regard to the absolute safety of solar gas production will be irresponsible and shortsighted. No serious discussion, no thorough research, and no official conclusions to secure the environmental risks and risks of a private capital monopoly in the energy security of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u5	I'm asking you to give me two more minutes. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u6	. The sun’s gases were never to be seen. Article 25 of the draft Treaty provides grounds for believing that no research and environmental impact assessment had been carried out prior to the conclusion of the Agreement. In violation of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Distribution of Produce, no State expertise has been carried out on environmental, financial and legal issues. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, has been denied the Cabinet of Ministers to receive such an agreement. I have two papers in my hands, namely the Order of the Daily Meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 11th, where this agreement is awarded the FTC. And this is the official answer from the Minister of Ecology, where he says that this Agreement is, he said, confidential and secret. I want to say that this is a violation of the Law on the Status of Deputies, the Act on the Committees of the Supreme Council, which clearly states that members of the Supreme Council have access not only to confidential information but also to classified information. It seems that more than just Ukrainian, European and international legislation does not work on so - called solar treaties. We're in a situation where it's hard to figure out what Ukraine's getting from this hedgehog. Today we see protests in Donetsk, Kramitarsk, Slovenia, we see these protests in Western Ukraine. Society requires open debate. And we have a mature problem, we have to figure out a problem that affects the interests of millions of Ukrainians. We know that the faction of the regions is afraid of such a discussion and will not accept it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u7	Thank you. Please sign up for discussion by factions. It's coming from factions. The word is from Freedom, MP Mirne.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u8	Please pass the word to the deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u9	Deputy Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u10	Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkivsky and Lugansk Region. At this time, I have several meetings at mass meetings that discuss just one subject. I can testify to a colleague at the session hall, as well as to television viewers, that there is no other topic than the hidden and enormous environmental risks of a solar gas project in Izum or Kramatar Donetsk region, in the Slovenian Donetsk region, no other topic is currently being discussed. Today, we have witnessed thousands of protests, the main idea of which is that with no community, with no district, city, or district deputies, there was no conversation. At this time, Sunday at 14 a.m., three or five thousand people were performing in the city of Isumi Kharkiv, Friends, Slovenians, and other cities in the Donetsk and Kharkiv regions. This is the area that belongs to the area of Yushua. Their basic requirement is: "No production of salt gas without having a normal, broad discussion and without normal legal, environmental and economic prospects." At this time, none of the deputies of the Kharkiv District Council, none of the deputies of the Donetsk District Council, who voted in favour of the agreement to enter into this agreement, had, I emphasize, had no contract in hand. They all acted according to the direction of the heads of the district administrations. And at this point, any normal discussion ends. Please support both the parliamentary hearings and allow each year to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u11	The Fatherland faction, Deputy Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u12	Dear friends! You can talk as much as you want about the environmental damage of this mining method and how much you can talk about the need to provide Ukraine with its own energy supply. Both, and that'll be right. And I would like to support these hearings so that there is also a fairly active question about the corruption component of this, what is going to happen. And if we look at the distribution agreement, we're going to see some misunderstanding 10 percent that very negatively characterize our state and our government, which is going to be something small, unknown to a Ukrainian company that has never done that. We were told that they knew the area well. Well, like, you know, Indians in the Wild West who help white colonizers rob their territory. But it's not really there, it's impossible to say that they know better about the average people in the country or the people in the area. So I think that this corruption issue -- 10 percent of the legal withdrawal -- has to be actively discussed at these hearings. And I ask you to consider this as a request to the Attorney General's Office and to the Ukrainian Security Service. Perhaps all of this needs to be determined, first of all, from the point of view of corruption, corruption in general, of the entire project, as well as of our other energy projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u13	Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u14	Please give the floor to my colleague Glasunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u15	Please, Deputy Glazunov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u16	Thank you. You know, I listened to the committee head speak, and I think how politicians sometimes make mistakes that are probably hard to correct. This morning, the faction of the Party of the Regions decided to vote in favour. But as the members of the Party of Regions will now vote, after being accused of all the trouble and what they did and didn't do, I don't know. I can no longer guarantee how they vote. I just want to say one thing. That most experts today agree that solar gas reserves in Ukraine hold fourth place in Europe, after Poland, France, and Norway. In the United States, there's mining, in Poland there's food, and there's population perception, and there's no environmental problems. And many of our experts say that if we follow Ukraine’s laws and environmental laws, everything should be normal. This was an opportunity at the level of Parliament to listen to experts. Not politicians who use the people of Ukraine for their purposes to listen to scientists. And you turned your speech into politics, because I don't know how the faction votes, but I want everyone to know that in the morning the faction was in favor of voting for the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to emphasize once again that the faction of the Company requires that these hearings be held, based on what people need to know, what is going on in the state and what the consequences will be. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before making these decisions and signing them, it was necessary to do this work first, not to rape the people of Ukraine, but in the name of their acquisitions, so to speak, today to use natural resources. What led to the closure of the mines and submersibles is, as it were, much evidence. That this is almost 50 percent of the population of Ukraine use drinking water from Dniper, this is Dnipro and the Dniper pool, and we need to think about it with you. We also need to think about the consequences of the ban on solar gas in Europe. Remember, in the United States, where wasteland — practically without population — is being drained. I mean. In the desert. So once again, I would like to point out that the faction of the Company must be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u20	The Company's faction offers to hold local referendums. This is the first time. Secondly, let's say we make all the calculations that are absolutely necessary. And the faction will not only vote on the basis that we have determined that we should vote today first, abolish pension reform, medical reform, and return the full salary to the people. And these parliamentary hearings need to be held in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u21	Turn on Oleg Lazko's microphone. On the rostrum. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When Communists oppose the agreement on salt gas, it is understandable why they do so. Because these are people who have never cared about Ukraine's independence, who sleep and see that Ukraine is dependent. But when people who call themselves patriots speak out against the production of salt gas, which allows Ukraine to gain energy independence, such as energy independence from the countries of the East, America has achieved. As for the Europe you're talking about, you don't know very well the European Parliament's decision. Last October, the European Parliament allowed the production of salt gas in Europe. Our neighbor Poland gets, France gets, Germany gets. I fully support those who talk about environmental issues, environmental issues, and so forth. These issues must be settled by agreement. But I definitely don't want the baby to be splashed with water. The issue of solar gas production is about Ukraine's energy independence. And we have to extract this gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u24	We have to extract this gas to get out of the gas needle and take off Moscow's gas smudge. This is our task, which we have to carry out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u25	Thank you. The replica. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u26	I'd like to tell some demagogues what's left or got to Ukraine from the communists. In the days of the Communists, Ukraine obtained up to 200 million tons of coal for years. And we didn't ask you how to do it, we did it. You're the one who's talking and stealing from Ukraine today. We've extracted up to 5 million tons of oil, 21 to 22 billion gases have been extracted by cubic meters. We've got a coal storm. And Alexandria, as your colleagues in your faction destroyed Alexander's coal, we didn't destroy it. And we did so by paying us 18 copies per month in the years of Soviet power. You don't know how to do that, and we know how to provide the energy security of the state. You're stretching Ukraine and we're building it. And you won't steal it in 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u27	I give the floor to the chairman of the committee for the final word. Irina Igorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u28	No one called you your last name. I'm begging you, committee manager. When we're spending.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u29	I want to. Irina Sech is the head of the Committee on Ecology. I want to say again that today we're not discussing the Ukrainian Parliament, we're talking about solar gas or we're talking about solar gas. We say that in the so - called solar area, unfortunately, Ukrainian legislation is not spreading today. We say that unfortunately, there is no discussion on this issue. And that's why we're proposing that this discussion be in the Ukrainian Parliament. And we urge all factions not to be afraid of this discussion, not to do evil to anyone, but to make the subject of solar development public and to be known by the entire community of those territories and the people of Ukraine! We're offering these public ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u30	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2030) "Ecological problems of extraction of salt gas in Ukraine" for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Members, please vote. [[16:23:35]] For-161 Factions: Region Party 13, Parentage Party 71, Vitalia Klicka Strike 33, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 10. The decision is not taken. Let us turn to the following question. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2031) on parliamentary hearings on "The state, measures and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" (17 April 2013) is being considered. There is a proposal to consider this project. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. Who's in charge of looking at the reduced procedure? Please vote. [[16:25:08]] For 193 Decision taken. Reporter: Sech Irina Igorovna, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please, Irina Igorino.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u31	Dear community! The anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster is approaching, but the relevance and necessity of solving a number of issues remains. That is why we consider it necessary to draw the attention of the national deputies of Ukraine, the government, the public to the problems of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. On February 13, this year, members of the committee visited the alienation zone and the Chernobyl AES. We learned about the progress of work on objects and the decommissioning of Chernobyl’s power grids, the handling of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and the state of implementation of international technical assistance projects primarily through the construction of a new secure confiment. As a result of the exit session, many issues were identified that directly affect the successful implementation of the state-wide decommissioning program of the Chernobyl AES and the transformation of the facility into an ecologically safe system. The analysis of Chernobyl’s legislation, meetings with citizens affected by the disaster, indicates that the social protection system itself is flawed, as well as the shortcomings in the implementation of the legally defined rights of victims. First of all: the pension insurance that was affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the reduction of the real financing of Chernobyl inflation index programmes, the provision of medical care, the provision of medical care to doctors and housing, the increase in the social and health care of children born from participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in the Chernobyl AES, and those evacuated from the alien zone after reaching adulthood, the provision of an index of the size of the monetary compensations for the cost of food for citizens, the treatment of the first and second categories and many other problems. Dear colleagues, we believe that a new, more effective policy must be put in place today to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which, along with traditional social protection measures, would include active measures to address health, environment, employment, and economic activity. What has been the state of implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Council that have been made in the past? Members of the Committee on Environmental Policy propose to hold parliamentary hearings on "On the state, measures and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" on Wednesday, April 17, 2013 at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Their aim is to analyse the implementation of the Supreme Council recommendations and to provide specific recommendations to the Government of Ukraine on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Please support the Parliamentary Hearing Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u32	Thank you. Let's make a deal: we'll consider the issues, we'll finish, I'll give you the word, and we'll come back to the questions that we have. Let us finish this consideration. I ask you to sign up for the statement on this subject. From factions. Two deputies signed up. The Fatherland faction, Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u33	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u34	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u35	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u36	I'd like to pass it on to Yavorovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. I have the moral right to speak on this subject, because I was the first head and I was the first committee in the Supreme Council on Chernobyl. I want to remind you that today you think that the Chernobyl disaster happened 27 years ago and you can forget about it. It's like this, if you want, a quiet crime like this. Because in the meantime, there's a whole system of colossal medical problems -- that's human health after the Chernobyl disaster, people involved, people who've been through this Chernobyl hell, that's one problem. The second is equally important, and perhaps even more important than this is a technical problem. The Society, well, we should mention that the walls of the old sarcophagus are already falling from the snow, and the new, unfortunately too, is not yet. And those European donors that give a lot of money to Chernobyl, too far away, that's a black hole in our budget today. And the work is incredibly slow and inconceivable. I also want our voters to know that there are scientists in Ukraine today who, in fact, today have discovered an entirely new aspect that will accelerate the decay of radioactive substances. Today, in an area of eight hundred temporary burials, cemeteries with contaminated radioactivity, machines, tanks, helicopters, and the like, washed by water. I also want to remind you that there is a huge problem with soil penetration. surface waters in the soil. Because of this, I am leading to the fact that we have simply been led by God to the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u38	A party of regions, Glazunov. People's deputy Glazonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u39	Thank you. I'd like to say, first of all, that the faction of the Party of the Regions will support this decision. But I'd like to say a few words. When the committee and I were on our way to the Chernobyl atomic station, we were given a very beautiful book, written by those who had overcome the disaster. So there are phrases that so many politicians, so many politicians became national deputies to the Chernobyl tragedy, but then they took care of the Chernobylites. We would not want to turn these parliamentary hearings into politics. We've been through parliamentary hearings to look at all the questions and honestly said that in 20 years of independence, sorry, no government has fully been able to do all the legislators' tasks that have taken on national MPs. And remember, in 2010, for the first time in 2010, 500 million euros were involved in the construction of a sarcophagus with today’s President. We're behind this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u40	Did you finish the discussion? Please, Mohnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u41	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As evacuated from Pripet in 1986, I can say that the state of implementation of legislation in the field of protection for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster is essentially catastrophic. Moreover, the government of Azarov-Tigipah was still in the previous cabinet, when they were "parents," and then by letters he canceled the decisions of the courts that had entered into legal force on the collection of pensions for black people, on the counting of pensions for disabled liquidators who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Think, not just the failure to comply with the laws, but the decisions of the courts that have come into force! That's why Ukraine needs to hear this. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this decision and participate actively in parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u42	All the factions have spoken. I am voting on the draft Resolution (Registration No. 2031) on the state, measures, and prospects of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:34:36]] For the 320. 320 National Deputies. Factions: Region Party 160, Fatherland 74, Vitaly Calla 34, Freedom 34, Company 0, Postfractional 18. On the grounds? [[B in m in s a l in]] He's right. Please, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u43	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. That's why the Communists are so yelling that I have no right to speak, because in fact, the Communists are still breaking the Rules all the time -- they're not voting. They don't vote "yes", "against," they just don't vote. This is a violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. Head, please pay attention and oblige the Communists to do so. Because, in fact, it is a nonsensence when we are forced to obey the Rules, while ignoring the regulations themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u44	A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Human Rights in Ukraine" (12 June 2013) is under consideration. There is a proposal to consider the draft regulation in short-term mode. I'll bet you a vote. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[16:36:45.]] For 211 Decision taken. The chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Valérie Vasilovich Paccan, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u45	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations discussed on 10 January 2013 at its meeting the draft Decision on the State of Human Rights in Ukraine. For no one is the secret that human rights in Ukraine at this time is extremely disastrous. Unfortunately, we have turned our backs on respect for human rights in Ukraine. Unfortunately, our nation does nothing in terms of peaceful meetings, particularly freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and freedom of expression. It raises concerns about the enjoyment of human rights in criminal matters, such as cases of torture and other forms of cruel conduct. Equally acute is the problem of the functioning of the justice system. The biggest complaints of our citizens are the execution of court decisions, the judicial burden and the execution of European court decisions. Parliament of the Seventh Call, which, by the way, we are national MPs, has started its work, but the most powerful, authoritative Amnesty organization has given us a quota of mistrust regarding Ukraine's non-compliance with human rights obligations. In addition, the election of a new composition of the Supreme Council has raised expectations in the population, in our ordinary citizens, mainly about the person exercising their rights through us with you. According to the Committee, the issue of human rights in Ukraine requires open and frank discussion with the participation of broad public circles, government authorities, and local self - government, and NGOs. Having such an important social debate in the form of parliamentary hearings will allow not only to systematically discuss existing human rights issues but also to produce effective mechanisms for their settlement, to identify priorities and tasks in this area. Thus, the draft decision, which was taken by the committee, proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on 12 June 2013 on the State of Human Rights in Ukraine. Please support the above-mentioned decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u46	Thank you. To discuss this, please ask the deputies to register with the factions. May I have your word, Freedom, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u47	Please pass the word to Bogdan Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u48	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u49	Bogdan Benjuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear friends! I would like to draw our attention once again to the problems that exist in the civil society of our nation. And surely all of us together need to go back once again to the amazingly beautiful things that lie in where only in the big discussion can we find one solution to the problems that we have. And so the hearings scheduled for June, we ask everyone to participate, and we certainly need this painful question that we have so that they can have support and we know about these problems that we have. And what our committee is paying attention to and asking all of you to respond and vote for these hearings to pass is saying one more time that these problems are urgent. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support these hearings. And we also invite you to support that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u50	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Zabzaluk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u51	I give the word to Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u52	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! For us, this is a principle because I represent the political power of the Fatherland, the leader of which is in prison today. And not just in prison, but in Timoshenko's example, the authorities have shown how it treats human rights in Ukraine, how it treats the rights of opposition in Ukraine, how it treats the standards of democracy in Ukraine. Today, there is no country in the world that does not know that Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko are in prison according to the principle of political selective justice. And all the indices of how Ukraine is treated in terms of human rights in the last two or three years have fallen into order. Imagine the situation. If today Timothyshenko is the second most popular politician in Ukraine, even in prison. How human rights are treated by a peasant in a rural area7 A person who has no ability to protect himself. Today, Ukraine’s citizen’s degree of invulnerability is perhaps the highest in the entire period of independence. There's another problem that I think we're going to be putting at parliamentary hearings, too, is a total violation of human rights. Today, the employer – whether it's a state or a owner – considers it necessary or years or months not to pay the work plan and thinks it is necessary. According to experts, we have the highest degree of violation of social, economic and human rights. I therefore believe that the committee should actively prepare for hearings and follow all parameters of human rights protection and index: from selective justice and the Timoshenko-Lucenko case, ending rights to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u54	The company of Ukraine, Gordienka. Dear friends, let's listen to each other. They can't hear the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u55	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The biggest problem in a bourgeois society is the respect for the rights of the common people. I would like to remind you that, during the orange regime, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council conducted a review of all the bills and compliance that threatens Ukraine and concluded that the greatest threat to national security and defence is disregard for the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, all branches of power, to the lowest official. The Ukrainian Company's faction supports the holding of parliamentary hearings on this subject. And we draw attention to the fact that we do not have the right to choose and be elected in Ukraine, the right to work, because there are millions of unemployed, the right of people to a decent salary, because wages are low. And if they do, they don't pay. We support and would like to draw these parliamentary hearings to health problems and to the extent that the entire sector is destroyed in the course of medical reform. We draw attention to the fact that we do not have the right to secure old age and the right to a pension. But we also draw the attention of all of you to the fact that, coming out of today's political situation, all of those who went to parliament, they promised that the first bills they would sit down to consider were the abolition of pension, medical reform and the elimination of debts on wages. On the basis of our previous statement, we say that we support the holding of these parliamentary hearings, but we will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u56	Party of regions, Koleshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u57	Please pass the word to Anne Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u58	Please, Annie Herman, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, in the rule of law, tend to talk a lot about human rights violations because they are possible. In dictatorship, totalitarian regimes don't talk about human rights violations because they can't. Since we are living in the rule of law, in a democratic state, the discussion, the broad discussion of human rights in Ukraine, will only go for the benefit of our state and the Party of Regions, of course, will vote for it. But not just discussion. We should all do it together, and we would like the opposition to help us to complete the justice reform initiated by President Janukovic, which we did not dare to begin for 20 years of independence of Ukraine. We simply warn against hearing about human rights, not about the rights of deputies. Because in Ukraine millions are unemployed, but the opposition does not block Parliament. And when one MP cannot choose from two prestigious high - paying jobs one, the parliament is blocked. I would like the opposition to defend the rights of ordinary people, ordinary citizens of Ukraine, just as strongly as it advocates the rights of elected people. You know, there's no one who doesn't want to be free and doesn't want to have all the civil rights. But just, wise people think about rights for all. And limited people think about rights for themselves. Therefore, we warn that these hearings are hearings about violations of the rights of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u60	Thank you. It's a funk. It's a light, it's a minute. I'll give it to
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u61	Dear Mrs. Herman was absolutely right about both the unemployed and the other categories of citizens. But all of these problems come from the absence of justice in our country, the absence of independent justice in our Ukraine, independent militias, prosecutors. In this country, the right one is more entitled. Who has the money, who has the hairy hand, who has the mud, who has the Pope, and who has the right. If you're an orphan, if you're poor, if you're a peasant, if you're a worker, you're kicked out of any government office, you'll go to court for years without the truth. For years you have not achieved anything in this country because you have been born a member of the family, a minister, or an official. And the human rights problem is not just the problem of prisoners: Timoshenko, Lucenko and others, which is the problem of millions of Ukrainian citizens who are not protected today and who have no rights. And that's why we're going to solve the country's problems under one condition: if there's justice here, then there'll be order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u62	I'm requesting the strike faction, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u63	Microphone, please. Ms. Hanna Herman is absolutely right when she says that the Ukrainian national deputy should choose one prestigious job from two. And that's why we ask the High Commander to consider the disciplinary responsibility of the Minister of Defence of Lebedev, who is today taking his main job, where he is the minister and at this time is somehow present in the Hall. And in the faction of the regions, please find out where your deputy should work, which one of the prestigious jobs. And the fact that the issue of human rights should be addressed at parliamentary hearings is obvious. Because European integration is primarily about respect for human rights. And the fact that Ukraine loses its ratings every day among all international human rights institutions is actually blocking more than anyone the issue of our European integration. Our faction will vote in full for these hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u64	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm betting on the vote on the draft regulation (registration number 2085) "The State of Human Rights in Ukraine" (June 12, 2013) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[16:51:09]] For 333 Factions: Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 77, Strike - 36, Freedom - 34, Ukrainian Company - 0, non-fractional - 18. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Status of Enforcement of Decisions in Ukraine" will be drawn up and proposed to be considered on 22 May 2013. Report to the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Valérie Volodymyrovich Pisarenko, please. There is a proposal to consider this motion for a summary ruling. Please vote. [[16:52:24]] For 201 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! I think that the problem of the execution of court decisions is not for anyone else, you all as national deputies are constantly receiving letters from people who are suffering today from the improper functioning of the actual system of execution of court decisions. The size of the problem to date is unlikely to be fully understood. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy has taken the initiative, unanimously, representatives of all parliamentary forces have called on the Supreme Council to hold parliamentary hearings and to address issues that will help solve the problem. Every day, our committee receives a petition from citizens, legal persons, regarding violations of legislation in the execution of judicial decisions. The execution of a judicial decision is an integral part of the right to a fair trial. According to article 124 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, judicial decisions are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine. At the same time, one of the most pressing problems of domestic justice is the actual execution of judicial decisions. The actual execution of judicial decisions contributes to the implementation of laws and the strengthening of their authority. The court’s decision essentially protects the rights of liberty and the legitimate interests of citizens and is also the final stage of the trial. Parliamentary hearings are based on the need to study the effectiveness of the protection of citizens' rights through the enforcement mechanism. We need to find out what the problem is with the system of enforcement of judicial decisions? If these are objective factors, we, as legislators, need to improve the procedure for implementing the law. If the reason lies in the subjective plane, we need to take steps to remedy this flaw. Improving the legal enforcement system is not possible without broad discussion and generalization of the practice of the State and executive services, other bodies and officials who, in accordance with the law, enforce judicial decisions and carry out separate enforcement actions. Members of the committee at its meeting on March 6, 2013, discussed the holding of such hearings on the status of execution of judgments in Ukraine and, given the urgency of the matter, supported the need for such hearings on May 22, 2013. Their conduct will allow for a broad discussion of issues in this area and will allow for a further improvement in the enforcement mechanism in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u66	Members, please register with factions to discuss the matter. Please, strike factor Vitaly Klitschka, Tkakouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u67	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u68	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u69	The honourable people's deputies, of course, our faction, the strike faction, is concerned, first of all, with the state of implementation of social pay decisions and the injustice that is now. Millions of black people, wartime actors, disabled persons, working pensioners, scientists, and so forth cannot obtain social justice from the State. And it turns out to be a paradox today in Ukraine that when a court takes decisions in the interests of a state or a state body, such as the Tax Administration, the Pension Fund, decisions are being made immediately, immediately and at the same time. As soon as the court wins a simple citizen, a black man, a war invalid, a working pensioner, etc., a state in the government, the Ukrainian Pension Fund begins to say that they do not have the ability to implement this court decision. So the situation is really absurd, and the rights of a simple person in this situation are being grossly violated. Of course, today’s debt for these social benefits is enormous. Today, they make up about eight billion dollars, but the longer this situation gets, the more debt increases. And we would like to hear a clear opinion, first of all, of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What does the government plan to do in such a situation? How will the government, the Pension Fund, be counted with our citizens? So it's obvious that the impact faction unanimously supports the decision to hold these parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u70	The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u71	Vladimir Vasilovich, please pass the word to the deputy who represents the faction of the "Fathership" of the city of Kiev and the Trinity of Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u72	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! I won't say who I am anymore, because Tomenko said. It seems to me that there are so many problems in our country today that we could spend the mornings and evenings with so many problems. The one we are touching today is indeed special. Majority MPs probably know how many references to them, literally, every day from our voters of the most important decisions. I'll remind you what this is about. You know that, in fact, the government is in the manual. Azares were, in fact, removed the benefits of the Chernobylites, the Afghans, and even the veterans of the Native War, in violation of this, in flagrant violation of legislation. And by the way, even so, Azarov could now be taken as the pants of the same article that they planted Julia Timoshenko -- exceeding his authority, he never had the right to do that. Because of this, people come in connection with the fact that our budget does not receive money when a decision is made, a lawsuit has been filed against the state. And the state has to pay off this money from its execution. In fact, this money is not paid in the same way. I think that at these hearings we should also talk about the enforcement of decisions by European courts. We know how many decisions against Ukraine have been made, not just against Ukraine, but against the Ukrainian authorities for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. These decisions are not carried out in the same way. That's why I'm saying once again, it's a colossal problem, a big problem that concerns a huge array of Ukrainian societies. That's why we need to get it out, talk about it. Although I have little faith that Azarov will change tomorrow, and he will return the benefits to the Chernobyls, Afghans and other types of our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u74	Freedom Union, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u75	May I give the floor to the deputy head of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Andri Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u76	Andrew Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u77	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, in our country, the presidential vertical of power was subordinated to a judicial branch of authority, and it is simply impossible to find justice in the courts. But even if a person suddenly came to court and found justice here, we have, in Ukraine, double standards, when one decision is made as a matter of urgency, the other decisions are delayed, and then they are cancelled by some cicicles that send the Cabinet of Ministers, telling them that they have no funds, and so the Social Protection Department should not pay the same costs that the same black people have condemned to the State in accordance with the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Just like we have here, in the hall. We have co-conspirators in the room who don't have a mandate for months, but they apply it to others as a matter of urgency. There are those who violate the Rules, such as the Communist factions, and do not vote, but they do not even notice that they are violating the Rules. And as evidenced by the fact that, in fact, ordinary Ukrainian citizens suffer from failure to comply with court decisions, the European Court of Human Rights published information on Ukraine's failure to comply with 95 percent of its decisions. And it comes literally to the absurdity of the failure of the court to execute the decision when the executive service did not find it in the leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine, who has an overpriced watch, Peter Simonnka, the sum of property, think of 14.5 bracelets. 14.50 does not have a communist leader to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u78	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u79	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Again and again, I draw the attention of ordinary people to what is not being observed in Ukraine, and it is precisely in violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And this is where crocodiles shed the very tears that the big problem is, those who are in opposition today, and those who were in power yesterday. Thus, it was never great for opposition or for power. It has always been a big problem for ordinary people. I will remind you that everyone today sneezes and loves people so much that they want to choke them in their arms, nod on certain court decisions. But I take them all back and remind them. Attention, everyone, and I remind you. In 2008, when voting for Ukraine’s 2008 state budget, the opposition today, and then the authorities voted in favour of Ukraine’s State Budget Act and the amendment of other legislative acts, which were amended simultaneously or in fact by 112 laws of Ukraine, deprived the social benefits themselves. And the opposition, and the power, in turn, is one thing, there is no difference. Another question. Why there are no judicial decisions made today in the name of Ukraine. In the name of no one, but the name of Ukraine. Tens of thousands of such decisions must be made, and we must insist on holding parliamentary hearings. Here are the children of war, the niggers, the other categories. I draw attention to the fact that we have adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Judgments, which should have been registered and then implemented. There's foam and so on. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers is not developing a mechanism for the introduction of this bill, but it is hypocrisy. Let's go, promise to retire will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u80	The discussion was over. Please, from the Chechetov Region Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u81	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm asking you not to take offense at my colleagues in Liberty. If the Lord God wants to punish someone, he's losing his mind. So do not be offended, for God has already punished them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, with regard to a particular issue. I think that this issue will have to be addressed, but we must show respect for the courts today, without waiting for consideration. Two examples. A party of regions, as a European party, respects and implements the decisions of the courts. As we were not offended when our colleague was deprived of his mandate, our partner, our comrade, but 200 people did not go and storm the court. What did you do? What are you doing? You say one thing, you do the other. With this position, Europe will be closed to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u82	One word. Faction manager, one word. Please, Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u83	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. I'd like to speak to Mikhail Vasilovich. He told the truth that if God’s command is to be given, he is deceiving his mind. Mikhail Vasilovich, you're not in danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u84	Let's move on to making a decision. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the status of execution of judgments in Ukraine. Spend May 22, the current year to make a decision on the basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:07:22]] For 309 The factions. Regional Party 153, Fatherland 72, Vitalia Klicka 37, Freedom 34, Ukrainian Company 0, non-fractional 13. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2271) on the health and rest of children and young people is being considered. It is proposed to consider April 3, 2013. One minute, Chewchenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u85	Our colleagues, unfortunately, continue to experience relapses. Journalists reported that a member of the Party of the Regions voted with two cards. According to journalists, this is our colleague Vasiliev, who voted with a second card. Unfortunately, then, we will have to go through a shameful voting procedure. For the third time today, I am addressing a friendly or non-friendly faction of the Party of Regions. Can you discipline your members and teach them to vote for themselves? This is in the interests of the Ukrainian Parliament and in the interests of the country. Unfortunately, a vote will have to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u86	Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's not make an absurd situation. In the last vote, we all saw Arsenius Yatzenuk voted when he was not in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] We had a little faction discussion here, and we decided not to raise that question because we understood that there was a majority vote. You don't have to turn it all into a circus. Otherwise, we will require every vote to be checked not only by the voices of the authorities but also by the voices of the opposition. Be Thorough and Careful! And we don't have to turn the work of the Supreme Council into a circus.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u88	I would like to vote on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Status of Implementing Decisions in Ukraine" on the basis of and in general. Members, please vote. [[17:10:29]] For 287 Against – 1, held – 6, did not vote – 106, total – 400. The factions, please. Region Party – 133, Fatherland – 71, Vitalia Klicka – 35, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. Decision taken. I'm asking you for reasons. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u89	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, note how correct we are in the hall. Just now, our colleague, Shevchenko Andry, announced the fact that the vote was supposed to be one for the other. Without even naming our last name, we went to the polls. We are, indeed, now in order to work in principle. But principle must be bilateral. To be honest, how sad it was for me today to see the distinguished representatives of the respected faction betray their comrade Vlasenek Sergija as a scaffolder. If you were in principle, you would never allow another national MP to take the oath today. This is your attitude toward Sergei. And I want Sergei to hear right now, if not you, at least his former colleagues in parliament. Yes, he missed a mistake and paid for it. This is our position. Shame on you. And you were to be more principled today if you thought you were defending the truth. And I'm asking the question that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u90	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u91	And I have one question. Why didn't we work last week if today you gave your friend away so infamously? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u92	Thank you. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2271) on parliamentary hearings on the health and rest of children and young people in 2013 is being considered. Reporter to the head of the subcommittee on family, youth policy, sports and tourism, Zuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please report. Who's going to report? Please report. Let's finish this discussion. Let's go back. I'm offering to consider the question (the reporter came out) under a reduced procedure. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u93	Don't get involved. Yeah, I'll call it in. Well, you're mixing. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[17:13:49]] For a hundred and Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the deputy has come forward and says that someone is voting, last name. Please vote in person. Please, my friends. Report. Did they turn you on? Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u94	Thank you. Mikola Jouk, faction of the Party of Regions, 129 constituency, Central District of Mikolayeva, Yellow District of Mikolayivsk. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies, distinguished our voters! You will be presented with a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings in 2013 on the health and recreation of children and young people (No. 2271), submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine, Palatny, Tedejev, Jury, Yankiv, Žuk. The Ukrainian National Deputies, which are part of both the majority and the opposition factions, propose to hold the marked parliamentary hearings on April 3, 2013, with a view to analysing the current state of recovery and rest for children and young people and identifying ways to improve public policy in this area. These hearings are important right now, in the extreme case of May 2013, so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to listen to responsible information from the government, public organizations, relevant departments and administrations, as well as from children's institutions, and to make appropriate adjustments for the optimal conduct of the healing season. I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian national deputies to the fact that, unfortunately, there is a negative trend in reducing the number of hospitalized measures of recovery and rest in order to improve the health of children and young people. The unsatisfying state of the material and technical base of these facilities, which is not being updated for a decade, leads to the fact that in such circumstances most of them do not meet modern requirements and cannot provide quality health services to children. I would also like to point out that, despite the fact that we have a steady trend toward increasing the number of children who are getting better, unfortunately most of these services are provided with recreation. That is why I stress once again the importance of holding parliamentary hearings. Thus, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the draft decree and accept it as a whole. But hold parliamentary hearings on the healing and preparation of the health company 2013 on April 3, 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear deputies, well, you can be a little quieter because MPs don't even hear the reporter. Please, have a seat, we'll do some work. I'm asking you to sign up for factions to discuss the matter. Please sign up. The region's party is Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u96	Please pass the word to Andrew Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u97	Andrew Pinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u98	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Well, fortunately, that's not such a big political question about curing children, so I'm sure there'll be a lot of support in the room. This Order is supported by a party of regions. I would like to say that we really raise this very often, and it's not the first hearings in this room. And it is a pleasure to have such great attention. We have recently created the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In this regard, it is also likely that recovery should be adjusted because part of the mandate remained with the Ministry of Social Policy, a part of the Ministry of Youth. There are many questions about the fact that our children, there, our young ones, are, in other words, not very happy and healthy. So these things, I think, are very global for the state. And at the moment, unfortunately, much of the problem is that, as the reporter said today, there are a lot of professional facilities where young people are being healed, they are no longer, in other words, fit for the recovery of young people and children. So I would like to say, at these hearings, not only to raise the problems that, unfortunately, in many ways each year are the same, but also to hear from the government, to hear, perhaps from professional people who are in recovery, some new ways of coping with these problems, some new healing methods. Because I think that's a very important problem that applies to each of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u99	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Cherneg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u100	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u101	May I see the People's Chamber?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u102	Hallelujah Arthur, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, I would like to support our committee's decision to hold parliamentary hearings in 2013 on the health and rest of children and young people. Children’s and young people’s health is a major achievement of the Ukrainian nation, which, unfortunately, is deteriorating. To change the situation, the best thing to do is to improve the health of children and young people at the right level. Today, more statistics on the number of children’s recovery are being made on the basis of recreation in the so - called asphalt. And the vast majority of health facilities have updated their material and technical base back in the 1980s. Even our world-renowned children's centres, Artek, and Young Guards, need the fastest reconstruction to ensure at least a minimum level of child recovery. It's a very sad situation to be able to ensure the adoption of state-owned targeted programs for the recovery and rest of children, for the support of Artec and the Young Guard. It's been four years since Parliament's mandate was given at the level of the laws of Ukraine and the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two governments, four professional ministers, four finance ministers, "and now the train and now there." The financing of the health sector is still at the point of reconciliation. Dear colleagues, I ask you, regardless of your political convictions, to vote in favour of these parliamentary hearings. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u103	Freedom Union, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u104	Please give the floor to National Deputy Igor Yankev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u105	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u106	Igor Yanków, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In recent years, there has been largely a steady trend toward worsening children’s health. At the beginning of the summer, a healthy and restable period for children will begin. Sadly, 1 out of every 5 children in the summer does not see what the sea is, but even the forest in the country. The capacity of our health camps is only 25 percent. We're tracking negative growth dynamics every year. The decline in the number of fixed children's institutions in health care, recreation, the unsatisfying state of the material and technical base of these health facilities, the rise in the price of guidance for children -- all of this requires a state solution and a solution to a number of problems. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the holding of parliamentary hearings on the health (rest) of children with the aim of improving public policy in the area of child health (rest).
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u107	The Fatherland faction, from Troastina, Yavorowski, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u108	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Vasilovich, what you remembered. But I am happy to give the floor to an outstanding Ukrainian miracle researcher named Mikola Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u109	I'm asking you to pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, in fact, the matter that is being violated by the committee of profile and which has just been referred to by the head of Arthur the Palace is extremely important. Last year, I held a session of these parliamentary hearings, and I would not like the preparation of the Ministry of Profiles for the current parliamentary hearings to be the same as at previous hearings. You know, in the recently expanded Cabinet of Ministers, President Viktor Janukovitch didn't leave the stone on the stone behind from the politics in this area of Minister Dmitr Tobacco, although after that, the truth left him as minister. I would like the minister in this room not to give us the statistics we heard last year. And the statistics, I'll tell you what, every year, we seem to be increasing the recovery rate of young people and schoolchildren. What increases recovery? They're doing, called, summer camps, teachers who don't pay extra money, they're spending time with kids who go to school, they don't even give money to feed them, and they're closing statistics that we have in three years, in geometric progress, increasing child recovery. In fact, the entire infrastructure is either looted or stolen. And so I think we should listen to a real picture here, how many health camps do we have left, what are the possibilities of restoring them, what are the possibilities of changing infrastructure? Today, I think, and the new or restored Ministry of Sport should say, guys, let's stop fighting in a poor country for international competitions where officials steal billions. Today, those billions must be put in swimming pools for all, in sports infrastructure, and in the recovery of children. We have 90 percent of students today who are potentially ill. If we don't start investing in this today, we're going to lose our young generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u111	Everybody here? Let's go. "Freedom" wasn't speaking? "Freedom" was on. "Freedom" came in. There's no motive, there's no motive. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2271) to hold parliamentary hearings in 2013 on April 3 on the health and rest of children and young people for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:26:44]] For 314 The factions. Region Party: 160, Parenthood: 72, Vitalia Klicka: 37, Freedom: 34, Company: 0, Postfaction: 11. The question of the appointment of out - of - turn local elections is being considered. For a report on this subject, the head of the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule of the People’s Deputy David Vážajevich Žvania is given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u112	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meetings on 26 December 2012 and 6 March 2013, considered in general 117 concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of the successive elections of 102 rural, 9 rural and 6 city heads in connection with the suspension of their powers in accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The reasons for the early termination of these heads’ powers are as follows: in connection with the appeal, a personal statement by the appropriate council on the composition of the powers of the head – 82 cases; in connection with the recruitment of the legal force by the indictment of the head or by the taking of the legal force of the court’s decision to bring the head to administrative responsibility for corruption offences – 15 cases; in connection with the death – 18 cases; in accordance with the decision of the appropriate council, by a secret ballot of not less than two thirds of the votes of the deputies from the general composition of the council – 2 cases. As a result of the committee’s consideration of these problems, appropriate draft regulations with registration numbers were prepared and registered at the Supreme Council: 1201, 1201 - 116. In deciding on the date of the out-of-court local elections proposed in these projects, the Committee, following the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine", "On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Village, Urban Heads", unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of individual village, village and city heads on Sunday 2 June 2013. However, I note that in part of these projects, namely in the draft regulations, the registration numbers: 1201, 1201-71 is the proposed date for the election on 17 March 2013. Taking into account the timely consideration of these draft regulations in the session hall in view of the fact that the Supreme Council did not work on the committee at its meeting, it approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a review of draft decrees from the register. 1201, 1201-71 change the date of the out-of-order local elections proposed in these projects from 17 March 2013 to 2 June 2013. I want to remind you that these places have been waiting for the election to take place for six months. Given that the Supreme Council has not worked, I ask you to pay attention, to be responsible, and please support the committee's decision to vote in favour of our decision to vote in general on the date of the election. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please sign up for factions. Jacinoc, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u114	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! It seems that we should begin now with the question of holding the elections of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council. We don't have to postpone this issue, start with it, and then we will, in general procedure, vote for each individual decision. Because constitutional terms are June 2nd, and we have no right to delay that. And tomorrow, we are voting on the decisions that apply to elections at other locations. So we ask you now to put to the vote the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council, after which we will vote on each of the separate settlements, tomorrow we will continue the voting procedure for the appropriate elections at the localities, and tomorrow we will vote on the commission for the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission for the abuse and falsification of the elections. This approach is suggested. We're asking for your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u115	Freedom Union, please. Then the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u116	Please give the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u117	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u118	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We support the appointment of local elections, which is consistent with legislation. We, as well as the faction of Fatherland, insist on the question of the appointment of a presidential election in Kiev by the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. But in addition, I would like to point out that when we consider the question of elections, the question of compliance with electoral legislation, I would like to point out that in the region of Ternopil, electoral legislation is not being implemented and is not being followed. In the Ternopil region, more than two years have passed without the authority of a member of the Ternopil district council. And this is only because the individual political forces represented in the Supreme Council are representatives of the Party of Regions, Communists and the People’s Party of Lithuania, for two years sabotage their duty to go to the election committee. In February, the Central Electoral Commission, by its decision, dissolved such an ineffective Ternopil territorial electoral commission and established the facts of its violation of electoral legislation by forming a new electoral commission. And the process continues. The Ternopil electoral commission continues to block the introduction of MPs by the representatives of the Party of Regions, Communists and the People’s Party of Lithuania. No one realizes that there are decisions of the courts, 12 decisions of the courts that established the inaction of the territorial election commission. And these decisions are not being implemented. This issue has already come to light not only in the Ternopil region but also outside Ukraine. Last week the question was answered at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the MEPs are also concerned about the distortion of electoral legislation and the limitation of the rights of the territorial communities to elect their deputies. In fact, in the Ternopil area, we have a situation where not only are the rights of 19 non-authorized deputies violated. We have a fact that is being grossly ignored by the electorate of the Ternopil region in the temporary election to the Ternopil district council in 2009. And so, more than a million people, more than a million Ukrainians are being ignored. People have no opportunity to get their deputies, no opportunity to ask their deputies about their activities. And we understand that this is happening only recently, that the head of the Ternopil State Administration, who is at the same time the head of the Ternopil Regional Party, who has submitted candidates from the Party of Regions to the territorial election commission, has given them instructions not to go to meetings, not to make legal decisions. And we think it's an electoral vachanal that's going on in a separate area after the passing of a conquered party. And there shouldn't be such a mess. If we are talking about local elections, electoral legislation should be followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u119	National MP Shufrich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u120	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, we today see pains in our being able to consider all the questions that are foreshadowed by the order of the day right now. And I see the emotions of the leader of the respective faction. But I would like to remind you, and why didn't you think about it when you blocked the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a few months, at least the last session of the past plenary week, we had the opportunity to look at it, and many others. And now I want to remind the honourable faction manager of the next. According to the Rules, which is the law of Ukraine, consideration of the matter has already begun, in fact we are in the process of considering the issue of daytime order. And we can't tear it apart right now and move on to another issue. We are also in pain to consider the mayor’s election and the city council of Kiev. But this will be the next question of the order of the day. So I would ask you not to delay, but to vote quickly, if I am not mistaken, about 170 decisions regarding the appointment of elections to local authorities, and then the time set by the Rules, within the set time frame, we will definitely consider this matter, which is of concern to all of us. However, whether we arrive today or not, the distinguished national MPs should think in the morning, when instead of predicting the possibility of continuing the work of the Supreme Council in the evening, they were arguing, teaching each other, and the questions you are so concerned about were forgotten. So before teaching others, read your own books and the Law on the Rules of Procedure. And now I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to concentrate, to be present at the workplace, because we need to appoint more than a hundred out-of-the-box elections. And we must treat them with no less respect than the city of Kiev and the Chinese that we all love and respect. In every inhabited area, there are the same citizens of Ukraine, and they deserve the same respect and attention from the Ukrainian national MPs, as well as from the Kyiv elections, in my opinion, are now a bigger test for the opposition than for other political forces. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you not to pay attention to the matter, to break it down, to follow the Rules, to complete the consideration of the matter, and then to proceed to the next consideration. Otherwise, it would be a severe violation of the law. And our opponents are absolutely against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u121	A Communist party. Adam Martinyuk, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u122	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, well, above all, I support those who constantly insist that we abide by the rules of the law, especially the rules of our domestic law, the Rules. And according to the Rules, I think that those who have made similar proposals understand that the question is being considered, it needs to be completed, and then it needs to be considered. Therefore, the presiding officer has no other right than one right to continue to consider the matter that he has declared. And then you can consider, but not one chairman, but a session hall, the faction's proposal to move, accelerate or defer the consideration of a particular issue, but it has to be decided by the session room after the next question is considered. Therefore, Vladimir Vasilovich, you do not have the right to interrupt this consideration and to listen to those who impel you to break the law, even though you are constantly being watched so that you do not violate it. This is the double bottom that opposition, today's opposition, has always practiced and, unfortunately, continues to practice. And a second. Dear voters, especially those in the heat of the earth. You know, I'm very pleased that your Freedom representatives always mention the Communist Party. We sensed, understood, having full authority in the heat field, that without the communists we can't do it. That is why they are constantly mentioned. Thank you, freemen, for finally coming. Why is "Freedom" always tedious about the issue of "Ternspace"? Because they have, as you can see, after an extra election, virtually all the power in their hands. All power is in your hands. We've got a fight to make. Mords can beat, but farm management can't do it. And so, of course, it's a good thing that you mention that really when you were in control of the country, and including the communists, the order was much more, and the area was one of those that flourished in the conditions of Ukraine. Now you've driven her to a smuggler. So please take responsibility for your affairs. And what you're mentioning to the Communists, we're just thanking you. Remember them more often.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u123	Vitaly Klitschko Faction Manager, please. Yeah, I'll give you a line. Vitaliy Klitschko speaks, then the replica will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u124	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, this morning in my speech, I asked my colleagues to consider one of the first questions of the Kiev elections. Today is a terrible day. I am confident that all the deputies of today are in Kiev and see the situation of Kiev. I don't think it's necessary to say that we're already postponing this question, not we're postponing it, and questions in the state are being put off. They were supposed to go through three years ago, then -- last year they moved to this year, now, I'm sure we understand that 117 elections to local self-government. Suggestion: Consider one of them and move on to the question of Kiev. It's very important, and I wouldn't want to drag him away again tomorrow, and there'll be another reason for tomorrow. That's how we've been putting off for a year. There is no measure in Kiev; the city of Kiev will no longer be an illegal city council. And so my suggestion is that one question we're considering and moving on to the question of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u125	"Freedom" is a replica of Kyda. Half a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u126	Thank you. Thank you, fellow MPs. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, we have, as usual, Communists, when they don't have anything to say, they use hebbels propaganda, which is the more you lie, the more they believe you. And actually, using what's said to be so beautiful and plump that they supposedly built the area, they led the area to really one of the worst because it's running the Terrapolska now your outpost, the former head of the hop company, and now the head of the district faction organization of the Party of the Regions. First. Next. For two years, it was my colleague who stressed, Oleg Orotyuk, that two years of MPs, 16 deputies from Freedom, couldn't go to the District Council, because the head of the district TVK representative of the Company, then he's the same anarchist, and now the Lithuanian Block, he's been running this commission for two years, and he's led that commission to something they can't do. This is all your truth, whether you are honorable or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u127	You didn't have a line, you had a performance. Now the Communists are asking for a line. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u128	You know, respectable colleagues, there's this saying, "His eyes are God's dew." [[B in m in s a l in]] So when, let's say, how many years in Ternopolska are the authorities of the pro-Freedom organization, which has chosen its majority to be a district council, and when they're trying to get away from another crime today, because there's a lot more funding under the 2013 budget. And the cost would have to be financed in 2012 and so now it's looking for another reason to say that they don't know how to take a bucket of water into the house. So you know that thanks to the efforts of the communists, and by the way, in Ternopolska until 1956, taxes were not paid at all, thanks to the program that was being implemented and implemented, the Ternopil region was built. And today in 20 years you can't give the order, so get out of there, you can't control it, and the communists will come and show you how to run the country again. Not like you're slapping your tongue today and there's nothing more you can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m1.u129	Thank you. All the lines are gone. There is an offer, honourable deputies, to continue the consideration of the matter, and tomorrow the first question to consider the elections in Kiev. Today we won't even look at it anymore. So there's a proposal: I'm putting to a vote the draft Order on the Assignment of the Zorkin Rural Head Elections (Zorkin Rural Council of the Lower Gorgeous Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (Registration No. 1201) -- for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Vote. [[17:46:12]] For 317 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Agricultural Head (Crime Republic of the Autonomous Region) (No. 1201-1) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Cheer up, there's a lot to vote on. [[17:46:53]] For 324 Chapaev village head (Chapaniev village council of the Soviet region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No. 1201-2) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:47:19]] For the 320. Decision taken. Bushin village head (Bushin village council of the Tivrov district of Winnitsk district) (No. 1201-3) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:47:50]] For the 320. Decision taken. I'll take the order. Staroporic Rural Head (Staroporic Village Council of the Ivanichov Region of Volin Region) (No 1201-4). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[17:48:26]] For 321 It's been decided. Bresnatov village head (Bresnatov village council of the Solonian district of Dnipropetrov region) (No.1201-5). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[17:49:00]] For 317 I'll take the order. Borodaiev village head (Borodaiv village council of the Upper Prov region of Dnipropetrov region) (No.1201-6). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[17:49:31]] For the 320. Decision taken. Meliotivniv village head (Meliotivniv village council of the Novomoskov district of Dnipropetrov region) (No.1201-7). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:50:06]] For 318 Decision taken. Dmitry’s Rural Head (Dmitry’s Rural Council of the Slavonian Region of the Donetsk Region) (No 1201-8). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:50:38]] For 317 Decision taken. New Year’s Rural Head (New Year’s Village Council of the Marin district of the Donetsk Region) (No 1201-9). For adoption as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:51:05]] For 322 I'll take the order. Paradise of Alexandria (Raj-Alexandrova Rural Council of the Slavonian Region of the Donetsk Region) (No. 1201-10) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:51:34]] For 326 Corsun village head (Korsun village council of the Yenakiev City Council of the Donetsk Region) (No.1201-11). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Vote. [[5:51:59]] For 326 Decision taken. Zajtsev village head (Zytsev village council of Gorlov City Council of the Donetsk Region) (No. 1201-12). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:52:27]] For 322 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decision on the appointment of the Northern Village Head (North Village Council of the Snow Town Council of the Donetsk Region) (No.1201-13). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:53:00]] For 328 Decision taken. Tarasov village head (Tajsiv village council of the Tachiv district of Zakarpat district) (No. 1201-14). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:53:30.]] For 329 Decision taken. Moscow Rural Head (Moscow Village Council of the province of Zaporozhye) (No. 1201-15). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:54:01]] For 323 Velikoznamyan village head (Velokoznamian Council of Kamyansk-Dniprovsk district of Zaporozhi region) (No. 1201-16) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:54:31]] For 321 Decision taken. Tenetnik village head (Tennetnik village council of the Galician region of Ivano-Frankiv region) (No.1201-17). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:55:03]] For 321 Decision taken. Krasnoslobid village council of the Obukhiv district of Kyiv region (No. 1201-18). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:55:32]] For 317 Decision taken. Torchitsky village head (Torchit village council of the Kyiv region) (No.1201-19). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[5:56:02]] For 314 I'll take the order. Reddoline Rural Head (Reddolin Village Council of the Bobrinecki District of Kirovograd) (No. 1201/20) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:56:30.]] For 313 Deputies! I'm continuing, I'm continuing for 15 minutes, up to 18 hours 15 minutes. Ovninikov village head (Ovninikov village council of Kirovograd district of Kirovograd district) (No.1201-21). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:57:10]] For 301 I'll take the order. European Rural Head (Yewsusian Rural Council of the region of Lugansk Region) (No. 1201-22). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:57:38]] For 299 ( Daniliv village council of the Bilovod region of Lugansk Region) (1201-23). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[5:58:02]] For 312 I'll take the order. Vrubov village head (Vrubov village council of the Pásnjan district of Lugansk Region) (No.1201-24). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:58:31]] For 306 Decision accepted. Porecan village head (Porečan village council of the Javorov district of Lviv district) (No. 1201-25). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:59:00]] For 302 I'll take the order. Telazi village head (Telazi village council of the Sokal district of Lviv district) (1201-26). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:59:28]] For 303 I'll take the order. The First Level Rural Head (Przechotravnev village council of the Snigurov district of Mikolaiiv region) (1201-27). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:59:56]] For-300 I'll take the order. Kobzartsi Rural Head (Cobzartsi Rural Council of the Snigury region of Mikolai district) (1201-28). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:00:26]] For 297 Decision taken. Sand Head (Piscan Village Council of the Baltic Odessa Region) (No.1201-29). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:00:55]] For 295 Decision taken. Transliterated Rural Head (Perelite Village Council of the Baltic Odessa Region) (1201-30). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:01:22]] For 299 Decision taken. Krutobalk village head (Krutobalk village council of the Novosanjar district of Poltava region) (No 1201-31). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:01:54]] For 295 I'll take the order. Malonekhvostian Rural Head (Malonekhvorostian Village Council of the Mashew district of Poltav region) (No 1201-32). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:02:27]] For 298 I'll take the order. I see fewer and fewer votes. Andriev village head (Andriiv village council of the Mashew district of Poltav region) (1201-33). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:02:58]] For 299 I'll take the order. The Novotagamlic Rural Head, the Novotagamlic Rural Council of the Mashew district of Poltava. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[6:03:25]] For 293 I'll take the order. Taverian village head (Taverian village council of the Chutov district of Poltava region) (1201-35). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[18:03:52]] For 299 I'll take the order. Kharkivsky Rural Head (Harkovetsek Rural Council of the Lochwiecki District of Poltava Region) (1201-36). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[18:04:20]] For 295 Decision taken. Widowish village head (Udowichenkov village council of Zynkow district of Poltava region) (1201-37). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:04:49]] For 295 Kowali Rural Head (Kowali Rural Council of the Poltava District of Poltava) (1201-38). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:05:14]] For 296 Decision taken. Militant Rural Head (Miletina Rural Council of the Ostróz Region of the Plain region) (1201-39). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:05:45]] For 291 Decision taken. Malostoropian Rural Head (Malostoropian Rural Council of the district of Lebedin district of Suma) (1201-40). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:06:15]] For 287 Decision taken. Redneck Rural Head (Cervuennes Rural Council of the Suma District) (1201-41). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:06:43]] For 292 Decision taken. Cosatically Rural Head (Cozatsky Rural Council of the district of Suma) (1201-42). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:07:10]] For 298 Decision taken. Commissioner’s Rural Head (Comish Rural Council of the district of Ahtyr district of Suma) (1201-43). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[6:07:38]] For 290 Decision taken. Viennese Rural Head (Vyvian Rural Council of the district of the district of Suma) (No. 1201-44) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:08:06]] For 289 Decision taken. Viennese Rural Head (Visa Village Council of the district of Ohtyr district of Suma) (1201-45). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:08:31]] For 296 Decision taken. Sosnov village head (Sosnov village council of the District of Suma) (No 1201-46). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:08:58]] For 288 Decision taken. Dmitry’s Rural Head (Dmitry’s Rural Council of the Grandpisar region of Suma Region) For adoption as a basis and as a whole. 1201-47. Please vote. [[18:09:27]] For 291 I'll take the order. Sorotsky Rural Head (Sorotsky Rural Council of Terobovljan Region) (No.1201-48). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[18:09:59]] For 294 Decision taken. Low-Zborkow village head (Nyżborkow village council of the Husatin district of Ternopil district) (No.1201-49). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[6:10:28]] For 297 Decision taken. Bolce-Zolotecka Rural Head (Bilce-Zolotecka Rural Council of the Borstev region of Ternopil region) (No.1201-50). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[18:10:55]] For 293 Decision taken. Stryiv village head (Striiv village council of the Ternopil region) (No.1201-51). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[18:11:25]] For 292 I'll take the order. Somov village head (Somov village council of the Začepiliv district of Kharkiv district) (No. 1201-52). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:11:54]] For 295 Decision taken. Stokopinov village head (Stokopanov village council of the Herson district) (No. 1201-53). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[18:12:23]] For 295 Decision accepted. Bieloussian Rural Head (Bilowsian Rural Council of the Great Alexander region of the Hersonian Region) (No. 1201-54). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:12:51]] For 293 It's been decided. Marqueev village head (Marceyev village council of the Chaplin district of Herson) (No. 1201-55). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:13:20]] For 293 It's been decided. Hannopil village head (Hannopil village council of Slavutsk district of Hmelnitsk district) (No.1201-56). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:13:52]] For 292 Tomaszov Rural Head (Thomaszów Rural Council of the Uman district of Cherkas region) (No. 1201-57). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:14:17]] For 287 And the last for today. Velikopozirkow village head (Velikopozirkow village council of Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk district) (No. 1201-58). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:14:50]] For 276 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
