ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Let's welcome a visit from the heads of the European Parliament's monitoring mission, Alexander Kwasniewsky and Mr. Pete Cox. [[Applause]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:38]] There were 307 national deputies registered in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please show by factions. Region Party – 139, Fatherland – 79, Vitalia Klicka – 38, Freedom Association – 28, Ukraine’s Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. Let's make a deal. We don't have to yell. Everything we hear, we hear each other, and everything we need to show. Please. Honorable National Deputies, today in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and part of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, at the request of 160 Ukrainian national deputies, are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's the second faction of Freedom, isn't it? Nope. A statement. In accordance with article 27, paragraph 15, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, we request a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. They signed the head of the Fatherland faction and the head of the Vitalia Klicka faction. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders, please enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. And let's start with a nice one. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Djemilev Mustafa, Kožemjakina Andrija Anatoliyovich, Korža Pavel Petrovich, and Cherniakov Valerija Viktorovich. Let's welcome them all on their birthdays. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on a conciliatory council, we discussed the order of the day of our meeting. I'd like to give the floor to the leader of the working group Vassiliev Hennady Andriyovich. Then three minutes later, the faction leaders will take the word. And then let's figure it out. How many minutes do you need, Hennady Andryovich? How much? And the offer is to give everyone up to three minutes. Please. Vasilyev Hennady Andriyovich, head of the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! It is well known that the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved, as of 9 November, the composition of the Temporary Working Group for the preparation of a bill on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons condemned to be deprived of their liberty. Following the recommendations of observers from the European Parliament, Alexander Kwasniewsky and Pete Cox, that the governing and opposition parties should seek the necessary consensus on the issue. And considering that no unconstitutional bill prepared by itself, whether by opposition or by other political formation, will receive a sufficient number of votes. It was this principle of consensus that we took as a basis. Bills of the national deputies of Labunsk, Mishchenka, Krupczak, Yatsenuk, Klitschka, Tajnibok, Kożemyakina, Heratschenko, and others were also included. In order to enter into a harmonized bill, it was suggested that the basics of the bill should be identified. This involved amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code. When these positions began to harmonize, only a third of them found general support. Some obvious issues, such as the amendment of the CPC or the Code of Criminal Enforcement, have not been taken at all. In fact, we lost a day and came up with nothing. What we've all agreed with is that the changes to the law apply to suspensions, suspensions of punishment for treatment abroad. But on the following day, a new bill was presented to the opposition working group's next meeting on conditional and timely release from prison due to the need for treatment abroad. So it was immediately clear what was going on. On this principle, the medical conclusion of the institution where the convicted person was being treated with recommendations for further treatment abroad, the obligation of such a person to return after treatment, and the continuation of punishment, and other issues remained unwarranted. Further discussion of all these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u4	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u5	There was no further discussion of all of these issues, so there is no harmonized bill in the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u6	Thank you, sit down. I'm asking the National Deputy Arsenius Yatsenuk, three minutes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u7	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we had hoped that the Party of Regions would come today to the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and would vote on the last three laws that were necessary for the signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The first is a law that allows Julia Timoshenko to receive medical care. And this is a law that actually takes the first step towards liberating Julia Timoshenko. The second is the law that makes the European Public Prosecutor's Office a law, the Prosecutor's Office Act. And the third is electoral legislation. Regrettably, the Party of the Regions first refused to consider the laws relating to the treatment of Yulia Timoshenko. Moreover, today I have been officially given an answer by President Viktor Yanukovitch's Administration that the President of Ukraine is not going to take any acts regarding the pardon of Yulia Timoshenko. And that is a clear answer or ready Victor Janukovic to sign the Agreement with the European Union. As an opposition, we have repeatedly been in the working groups and we have been addressing our political opponents -- follow the instructions of your President, who said that we should adopt the law. There was no proposal from the Party of Regions this morning. We have drafted another bill that is acceptable in all respects and which can be adopted by Parliament if President Janukovic has the political will to do so. But this bill doesn't provide for our political opponents, not to mention the Procurator's Act and the Elections Act. Greatly aware that they are not going to sign a treaty, they need to leave a repressive prosecutor’s apparatus in the form it is today, in order to pressure their political opponents and to fake the 2015 election. And with the new Procuratorial Act, as amended by the opposition, it's impossible to do that. We address the President personally. Visits to Moscow, Victor Fedorovich, will do nothing. It's not possible to trade in the country. The country will not forgive you! [[Applause]] Come here to Parliament, make a political decision. We're ready for any compromise, we're ready for everything for the European future of Ukraine. You are willing, just for political persecution, blackmail, pressure, and to maintain your rulership. And we want the rule in Ukraine to be behind the people of Ukraine. That's how it's gonna be! We require the President to make a political decision on the signing of the Agreement and the adoption of three necessary laws for Ukraine's European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u8	Vitaly Klitschka, head of Vitaly Klitschko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u9	Dear voters, distinguished citizens, fellow MPs! The less time left for the Vilnius summit, the more clear it is that the authorities today do not wish to sign the Association Agreement. Because the authorities understand: The Association Agreement is the first to implement European standards of living. When it is impossible to draw money from the budget without shame, without fail. When wages are to guarantee a person’s worth of life, not survival. When illegal acts are responsible for human rights violations. This course is unnecessary for Yanukovich’s authority. Why? Only because it's dangerous. And that is why they are doing everything they can today to tear it down. The committees are not demonstratively willing to work on draft European laws. In the matter of Tymoshenko, how long is the soap opera performed by Viktor Yanukovic and his party MPs? Although the question of Timoshenko Janukovic may be solved by one stroke of feathers. President Janukovic forgets that Euro-Integration is not his credit, it is a requirement of Ukrainian society and society will say its word. President Janukovic and all his verticals proved to be the opposite of European Ukraine. So I would like to state that if the authorities break down the signing of the Association Agreement, then the new President will definitely sign it. And the new President will do his best to ensure that European standards of living are embodied in Ukraine and that every Ukrainian citizen is able to experience European changes. The Janukovic regime is a mistake in Ukraine. And we all will soon be able to make it, this mistake. Do it. We will fix them all together only because Ukraine is Europe, and we will be able to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u10	Thank you. Freedom Union, leader of Oleg Tuggnibok faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Society, today the opposition forces have given or not the last chance for a party of power to rehabilitate itself before Ukrainian society. We have given you the opportunity today to vote for the necessary bills that Europe's societies, our European partners, expect from us. Appropriately, we appeal to you today, the Party of Regions, give Ukraine a chance, give the Ukrainians a chance at another, better, real future, on tomorrow, so that we can look to the future in peace. Because the policy you've been pursuing lately, the last few weeks, is the policy of the geopolitical ostrich. No one can understand where you're going, either to the right or to the left? You're in the secret Moscow Union, do you want to go to Europe? Please be clear and give an appropriate signal to the Ukrainian community and give an appropriate signal to the European partners. We also need not be intimidated by the Ukrainian community by some economic difficulties that may seem to arise in the event that Ukraine goes to Europe. Now, if you don't mind, all this time, we've been working closely with the Russian Federation, with Moscow in economic terms. And what's the result? You know that result. The domestic gross product dropped by 1.5 percent, industrial production dropped by 5.6 percent, compared to last year, a huge debt on wages and social pay. We have huge problems now with an external debt that is growing and growing every time. By the way, the Russian Federation is constantly reducing joint programs with Ukraine: space programs, energy programs, and more. This is not happening since Ukraine started Euro-integration processes, but before that. Russian hugs are probably too strong for us today so we can just give up our present European perspective. Remember, too, that as early as 1994, we had a signed memorandum. Both the United States and Britain are certain guarantors for Ukraine in case another country can put economic pressure on us, including economic pressure. Finally, I hope that our congregation will win France’s collective victory, and we will go to Brazil. I hope we're all, and on the left, and on the right side of the hall, want this, I hope that the French side won't vote against Ukraine's integration just because Ukraine wins. But you have to understand, if we're going to a football terminology, our way to Europe -- this is a game in the league of champions, our way to Russia -- this is a game in the cube of the Kremlin, and no more, no less. And to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u12	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u13	And to the end. We Ukrainians are a European nation. When we go to Europe, we just go home. Do not become those logs on our way to our dock, to our family, to the families of the European nations. And remember that if you want to solve the problem, you are looking for ways to solve the problem, and if you have made a political decision not to solve the problem, you are searching for a reason. Remember the consequences. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u14	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Ephraim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u15	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests! Today, Ukraine has taken most of the road to signing an association agreement with the European Union. The final steps left to take will lead our nation to a higher level of relations with the European Union. But on this road, we have faced serious obstacles that threaten to stop the 46 million-dollar movement of the country to the European family. All societies know what these problems are related to. In this connection, I have a question for representatives of the opposition section of the hall: What is happening in your lava? You and I have clearly agreed that the main priority in the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the European integration component. Despite the agreement reached, however, you have repeatedly hindered the implementation of the road map agreed upon by the European Union. Without you, we have adopted: the Criminal Procedure Code, the Law on Lawyers, the creation of a national preventive mechanism against torture, we have made changes to the Constitution to ensure the independence of judges and to increase the role of the Court of Auditors. We completed the first phase of modernizing legislation to simplify the visa regime, passed a set of laws to protect intellectual property. In fact, all the bills relating to the adaptation of Ukraine's legal system to European criteria we voted without you. Today, the Supreme Council still has three laws to be passed: the prosecution, the election to the Supreme Council, and the treatment of those sentenced abroad. And that's where we're headed for the deaf wall. In the prosecutorial bill and the election, opposition factions have already submitted some 500 amendments, thus blocking their acceptance not only today but also in the near future. At the same time, as the first sessions of the established working group showed, the draft law on the treatment of convicted persons was not taken seriously and professionally. As a result, today we don't even have a version of this bill that can be taken as a basis. I highly doubt that there are no prepared lawyers among you, distinguished representatives of the opposition. In this regard, we have a stronger suspicion that you are simply playing a show for the voters, and in fact, you see yourself as candidates for the presidential election and the question of Timoshenko to decide you are not even going to. [[Applause]] And the statements of the three predecessors confirm this. And just worry about the European representatives, trying to frame them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u16	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u17	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I reiterate that the President of Ukraine has passed a bill on the Prosecutor's Office, agreed with European experts, and the faction of the Party of Regions is ready to vote for it. We have prepared and introduced a bill amending the Law on the Election of People's Deputies -- and we are also ready to vote for it. And with regard to the law on treatment of convicts abroad, we are ready to consider it in the version that will be prepared by the Supreme Council, which is with us, a working group. If you are involved in this work, the path to Europe for our nation is open. If not, find out between you and tell the whole country you are playing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, therefore, the draft Law on the Possibility of Treatment abroad for Persons Convicted of Willlessness is unfortunately not yet prepared by the Temporary Working Group for consideration by the Supreme Council. And the committee, along with the committee manager, decided that all of the laws relating to treatment should be sent to the working group. This is the faction manager. Next, the next two bills: on the prosecution's office, on improving the legislation on committee elections, are not prepared either. And, indeed, there are today amendments so much that the month will have to be considered by the committees. It was Ephraim’s truth that told. We took them as the basis for the first reading on November 8. The deadlines for preparation for the second reading were reduced by half, which means that the time for the people’s deputies to submit the amendment proposals coincided with the 18th hour of November 15, Friday. In such a situation in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, the Rules cannot deprive national MPs of the right to submit their proposals to the Bills. Thus, of the three issues that have been initiated at the extraordinary plenary meeting of Parliament, two cannot be considered, because there are many amendments, and the third is not yet prepared by the working group. Therefore, I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next meeting will be on Tuesday 19 November at 10 a.m.
