ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:13]] There were 378 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the leaders of the European Parliament's Monitoring Mission, Alexander Kwasniewski and Mr. Pet Cox, are visiting Ukraine. The guests are now in the session room, and let's welcome them again and wish them a fruitful visit to our country. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, yesterday, 7 November, on the 67th year, a Ukrainian national deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the law enforcement of Ukraine's law enforcement activities, Mikhailo Ivanovich Gerasimchuk. Please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, life goes on. And today was the birthday of Vitalia Olegovich Zdunowski. Let's say hello to the people's representative of Wonderland on their birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have an order of the day for today. So how are we going to work today? Igor Grigorovich will continue to consider the issues that are in order today. The MPs are in session mode. And I invite the leaders. Sit down, don't shout. And I invite the faction leaders to come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, and we will continue our consultations. And based on the consultations, we'll inform the session room. Keep going. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yesterday the decision was made: Today the government does not invite. Because the Supreme Council didn't work yesterday. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the appointment of individual out-of-order local elections. If we support today's election election election with you, it will take place on March 30. For a report on this issue, the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government of Paraskiv Oleg Dmitrovic is given the floor. Please, Oleg Dmitrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you and I understand that consultations are now under way with the Supreme Council, the faction leaders. So let's just take this one step at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u3	Dear colleagues. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on September 18 and October 23, 2013, considered a total of 115 concerns of individual local councils regarding the appointment of successive elections of the 101st village and 14 village heads. In view of their early termination, according to article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. The reasons for terminating these heads are as follows: in connection with a personal application to the appropriate council for the filing of the credentials, 87 cases; In connection with the acquisition of legal force, 16 cases were the indictment against the head; 9 cases in connection with the death of the head; The decision of the council is three cases. As a result of the committee's consideration of the problems, relevant draft regulations with registration numbers were prepared and registered in the Supreme Council: 3276-3276-115. Also at its meeting on June 19, 2013, the committee reviewed the submission of the head of the Luhansk District State Administration, Vladimir Pristuk, on the appointment of the successive elections of the Porecen Rural Council, the Krasnodon region, Lugansk. The above question was raised by the head of the district public administration in accordance with the requirements of article 78 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, in view of the fact that Council sessions are not held without the relevant reasons for the deadlines set by this law of Ukraine, and the Council does not decide on issues related to its publication. This is an order with registration number 2397a. At its meeting on 18 September 2013, the committee considered the submission of the head of the Zaporozhye District Authority, Alexander Pecklusenko, to appoint alternate deputies of the Dolin Rural Council and the valley village head of the Zaporez Region, the Zaporozhye Region, sent to the Supreme Council in accordance with the provisions of part four of article 78 and part five of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The above question was violated by the head of the district government in connection with the early termination of the authority of the Dolin Rural Head, Bogdan Fedchuk, in accordance with paragraph 3, part one of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on the basis of the acquisition of legal force by the indictment of the court against him. However, the Dolin Rural Council, in spite of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, did not decide on a permanent suspension of the authority of the valley's head and rejected the application of the Zaporozhye District Prosecutor's Office, requiring the enforcement of a legislative rule on the adoption of such a decision, which resulted in Bogdan Fedchuk continuing to work as a rural head. This is an order with registration number 3277. Also at this meeting, the committee considered the submission of the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, Alexander Pecklesenk, on the appointment of alternate deputies of the Town Council and the Stepne village head of the Zaporez Region, Zaporez Region, to the Supreme Council, in accordance with the provisions of part four of article 78 and part five of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The above question was violated by the head of the district public administration in connection with the early termination of the powers of the stephen village head Galina Primenko, in accordance with paragraph 3, part one of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on the basis of the acquisition of legal force by the indictment of the court. However, the City Council has not decided to suspend the powers of the country's head in the face of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine for a period of time, despite the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Prosecutor's Office, but has not considered the submission of the Procurator's Office of the Zaporez Region, requiring the enforcement of the legislative rule on the adoption of such a decision. As a result, Galina Primenko continues to serve as a village head. This is an order with registration number 3278. The Committee, at its meeting on 23 October this year, was guided by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the local elections and unanimously endorsed the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint successive elections for individual rural and rural heads. Deputies of the Porecen Rural Council, Deputies of the Dolin Rural Council and the Valley Rural Head, Deputies of the Town Council and the Stepen Rural Head on Sunday, March 30, 2014. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please sign up from factions one minute at a time. People's Deputy Palamarczuk, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u5	Please give the floor to the deputy of Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u6	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u7	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We in Ukraine have such a phenomenon as selective justice, selective application of legislation. Today we have, at last, a phenomenon such as selective self - control. Today, the Party of Regions is deciding what elections should be made for the Supreme Council session, which should be held and not held at all. Today, we have only draft decisions on the question of how to announce elections in rural, rural councils, rural, rural heads. Instead, we have today insolvent, almost 14 cities, and these draft decisions are not being made today by the Supreme Council. The strike faction claims that it will not vote in favour of similar draft decisions. We require a comprehensive consideration of all the issues involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u8	People's Deputy Tuggnibok, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u9	Please give the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u10	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The practice of selective self-government in Ukraine has led to 5 million Ukrainians now in Ukraine, 5 million voters are unable to exercise their constitutional rights to choose and to be elected. And in fact, there is a situation where hundreds of local communities throughout the territory of the Ukrainian State do not have their heads legally chosen. And now we're putting it to a vote, and the committee only proposes that rural and rural heads appoint elections, but in fact, there's a problem in a lot of district centers -- that's both the Chernovites, and Mikolai, Herson, there's no election in Kiev. That's not supposed to happen. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will not support the position when we appoint elections in some territorial communities, and we forget about other communities. All that remains of Parliament is to call off the President's election, cancel the next parliamentary election, and engage in selective self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u11	People's deputy Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! We need to be organized as much as possible. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we had shown the highest degree of organization, we would probably have passed the two laws necessary for Vilnius: the Elections Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act. You know, today we didn't listen to the government because of the unorganizedness, and the government wanted to come, wanted to talk about its success, just wanted to. And because of our disorganizedness, the Government has not been able to come to the Supreme Council and speak using the rostrum of the Supreme Council for the people. I think that we must now proceed to the vote, and separately, for each populace, where there is a need to make decisions, we must vote and take a decision, not in the package as a whole, but in each particular populace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u13	National MP Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, if the power of Viktor Yanukovich enters history, it will enter history as a power that virtually destroyed the system of local self - rule in Ukraine. And such decisions to make the appearance that we still remember that there are villages, villages, and rural councils are completely nullifying the overall approach that the Supreme Council must take. There is no city head in Kiev, there is no legitimate city council in Kiev, there is no proper system of local self - government in most district centers. The President has himself, the President's Administration decides which city head to remove, who to appoint, so the position of the Fatherland faction is clear: it is necessary to restore the local government itself, to appoint systematic elections in all cities in Ukraine. Starting with Kiev and finishing up the villages. Therefore, the faction will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u15	National Deputy Alexander Zubcevski, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I will note that the Communist faction will not support this order. This is particularly true of the Dolin and Stepnian Village Councils of the Zaporozhye region. This is an elemental breakdown within the governing party in the region. This area is also located and bordered by the town of Zaporozhye, and there is a permanent landfill of land. Here is nothing to participate in these discussions, and these chairmen, in particular in the Valley Rural Council, have chosen the people, the accusations that have been made in their own time, today, they have been withdrawn, so in order to take account of someone's interests, we will not participate. There will be further elections and people will evaluate these chairmen of the village council. Thus, there is also nothing to spend on the budget. Therefore, once again, we will not vote in favour of this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just heard from the factions, a number of regulations have been made. Maybe let's go this way: that where there's no comment, we vote; where there is, we're going to take these out of consideration and we're going to discuss them separately. If we do not now have the corresponding votes 226 to adopt these decrees, then it is likely that there is no need to consider the issue of today’s elections at all. And 118 village and village councils will be left without an election. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Ruslan Knazevitch. Put Knjazewicz on the microphone, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u18	Dear Igor Grigorovich, distinguished colleagues! The only obstacle, as it were, is to vote for the election of city heads in district centres and a whole range of district centers in the past year was the lack of funding for this year. We were convinced that the budget did not provide for this kind of cost, which is tens of millions of dollars, and so there is no point in having such an election in the next few months before the new year. Now, I'm drawing your attention, the committee is proposing to hold these elections for the following year: on March 30, 2014. And if all of these elections, starting with Kiev, cities, district centers, circuit centers, are scheduled for March 30, we are automatically obliged by law to anticipate funding for them in the next year’s budget. There are no problems here. And since this is the only thing that kept us from voting properly, I, Igor Grigorovich, would ask you not to make any exceptions, to put everything to the vote. Because in this case, I assure you, the entire session hall is unanimous.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u19	Irina Heratschenko, Vitaly Call's Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the position of the strike faction in the next vote is yes. First. We feel that this is unacceptable when the government does not come to report on Friday. The other one. We're going against selectivity in the election. This is not normal when today five large district centers, such as Odessa, Chernivci, Mikolai, Cherkasa, Herson, and the capital city of Kiev, are without measure, and in principle this room does not address the issue, does not bring it into the agenda. Most of all. It's a shame when today, before the Vilnius Summit, we see in order of the day's decree on celebration, the decision on re-selective election, and we don't see the key Euro-integration laws. The factions of the opposition will not take part in the vote until they bring into order today the laws necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u21	Miroshenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u22	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Much has already been said about the selectivity of voting for elections in one region or another. There's already a lot of talk about the seemingly lack of funding, but once again, the faction of Ukrainian nationalists of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom insists that we have a choice: or we vote for all elections everywhere, including in the capital, including in five district centres, or we don't vote anywhere. Because today, the Party of Regions, this impression is made up, has organized such a show troupe among technical candidates, and it's trying out in separate districts, for example, about elections. elections to the Supreme Council in 223 districts, where more than 50 candidates have already registered. Are you going to make a selective election to drive this corpse? Allow local self-government to implement itself primarily in the capital and all the district centers, and we will vote for all the elections together. Otherwise there's no point in considering separate elections, on any village councils, where you're comfortable, where you can organize counterfeiting. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u23	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm calling for common sense again. You know, I'm talking to the opposition. You are holding back Ukraine's European perspective today by refusing to vote in favour of the Elections Act, the General Prosecutor's Office Act, which was tested by the Venice Commission, which was supported by the opposition committee, headed by Mr. Cosmekin, in the presence of three leaders of the opposition who blessed the Supreme Council for its consideration of the issue. On the other hand, you're protecting local self-government today. A hundred and a hundred more elections need to be held, you refuse to vote. That's why I have a constructive proposal. Igor Grigoryevich, I have a constructive proposal: to move on to the second question and vote in favour of the date order. The local government will not be protected because there will be no votes, and we will virtually cut off all local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u25	Thank you. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, these are really different questions. Clearly, the important issue of elections in Kiev is in the district cities, but these are different questions. The point is that 118 villages are without country heads from various parts of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's give it a try. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3276) on the appointment of non-separate deputies for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the Golubin Rural Council of the Bahchisarai Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please vote. [[10:24:55]] For 124 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party 93, Parentishka 0, Vitalia Klicka 0, Freedom 0, Ukrainian Company 24, non-fractional 7. There is no desire to consider the appointment of individual elections. We will be asked according to the 11 - hour rule. Ladies and gentlemen, you've got an explanation for this. The draft Decree on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Karadá biological station, the Karadá natural reserve of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:26:15]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Let me know, Lilia Mikhailvna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a strange situation going on with you. The authors of their bills have no desire to report them. If this is the case, we will not consider these questions. Greenwich Lilia Mikhailnovna, report your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u26	Dear fellow national MPs, we are ready to report our drafts. But when the most important issue is resolved, the issue of Euro-Integration Laws. And we don't have to waste time right now, we have this time. While consultations are under way, it is fashionable to use it to announce queries, because on other issues the opposition will not vote until Euro-Integration Laws are passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u27	Let's move on to the request announcement. People's deputies of Ukraine have been asked: groups of national deputies (Dubila, Zubka, Čuhunnikova) to the President of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine to ensure constitutional rights for citizens living in hostels. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to support the request. Please vote. [[10:28:59]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Leonidas Hamtza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the necessary measures and on personal control of the issue of fraud against the Czech Export Bank's investment costs and the punishment of those responsible. Igora Brichenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of the road territorial value T-1505 by connecting the cities of Snigurovka - Herson. Victoria Babic to Ukraine’s Minister of Culture regarding the lifting of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and Tourism’s order of August 22, 2008, according to which the monuments of Volodymyr Illích Lenin in Sumska region were not included in the State Register of Real Estate Monuments of Ukraine as objects of local cultural heritage. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-indebted pay of employees in the Ternopil education sector. Vladimir Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of a kindergarten building in the village of Mishanec of the Congregational Region of Ternopil. Yuri Savchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures of prosecutorial response to the Children's Youth Sports Complex "AVANGARD". Alexander Momota to Ukraine’s Minister of Agriculture and Food on clarifying the situation around the Scientific Research Program for the Development of the Grounds for the Use of Inland Water Objects and the Management of Special Fish Farms for 2013. Alexander Momot to the Director - General of the U.S. Railway Administration of Ukraine to explain the situation surrounding purchases of wheelchairs. Arsena Awakov to the Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine to prevent entrepreneurship by officials of the State Tax Service in Odessa and Odessa. Arsena Avakov to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the inaction of prosecutors of Kiev City. Roman Shugal to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State Energy Regulation for the consideration of the letter-to-return of the deputy of the Chevchenkov District Council in the city of Czernovka Gorlan for the dual approach to the setting of electricity prices for the population. Roman Shugal and Sergey Gordienka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Poltava District Administration, the head of the Seminian District State Administration of the Poltava Region for the consideration of the letter-calling community of Semenovka and the Seminów region of the Poltava region for the promotion of a positive solution to the issue of the further functioning of the maternity ward of Seminów Central District Hospital. Alexander Sic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of the Russian company Open Shareholders Association Lukoil made commitments in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Open Shareholder Society of Lukoil in the part of the restoration of the Society's work with limited responsibility "Karpatnaftohim", ensuring a steady increase in its production volumes and the preservation of jobs in the enterprise. Jurya Orotyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the bankruptcy of the Cherkasitorf State Enterprise. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up compensation payments to citizens in the southern Odessa region affected by natural disasters. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Wallin District State Administration for the immediate measures taken to prevent the pollution of the Tury River in the Kovell region of Volin Region. Oleg Laska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of information on rape in the Odessa City Service Office by Alexia Kostusev, his subordinate, the falsification of the 2010 municipal election, and the commission of a number of other resonant crimes. Valentina Lutikova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reporting of the Kerchen State Naval Technology University of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the need to leave it under the authority of the State Fisheries Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine. Angelika Labunsky to the head of the Interministerial Commission on Anti-Corruption and Preoccupation of Enterprises, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the gross violation by the Public Stock Exchange Company of the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in relation to customers – Orvis Society with limited responsibility and the Lumis Joint Undertaking. Michael Blawajkok to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the abuse of office by the Ananiyev District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa region. Anatolia Vitova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine on the illegal trade in counterfeit alcohol and tobacco products, and the inaction of local law enforcement authorities and local authorities in Volinska Volinsk. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, head of the State Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the rightfulness of the removal of agricultural land from state property of more than 94 hectares in the city of Brovary Kyiv. Victoria Babic to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine for an unjustified unilateral change in the terms of the contract in part of the increase in the interest on credit by the commercial bank "Privatbank", which led to a violation of the rights of residents of the town of Kozyatin Winnitsky region: Borisenko, Medinska, Voropeyeva, and others were deprived of housing and proper judicial protection. Sergia Topolova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the design and construction of the road to the village of Krińska Bilogirské District of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the movement of large-scale transport from the territory of the Society's careers with limited responsibility for "Biological Career Management" and the Society with limited responsibility for "Ulyssian limestone".
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u28	Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide the budget of Kahovka Hersson district with an additional grant from the State budget of Ukraine to ensure full and timely financing of the protected expenditure articles of the city budget. Vladimir Schulga to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the investigation by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of a criminal investigation into the violation of effective legislation by the Prosecutor of the Tax Police Department of the Suma District of Taras Romanov. Igor Vasyunika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-target use of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Lvivivtocomposition" pays the residents of the former Lviv bus factory for residential services. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the MP’s appeal to the Department of Health of the Plain District State Administration in the interests of Fedor Tirak. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on noise pollution in the streets of Oleka Dundić and Prince Romana in the city of Raven. Groups of National Deputies (Grenević, Knjazević, Sluz) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the late payment of salaries to educational workers. Lilia Greenevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the purchase of basic therapy for children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Roman Ilik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the improper financing of the Ukrainian Treasury authorities of the appropriate needs of the local self-government bodies of the cities of Borislav, Stebnik, Truskavets and Drodobic region of Lviv. Olga Mikhailenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the use of the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of a helicopter site in the Grand Alexander region of Hersson. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in the supply of compressed gas to the people of the Hersonian region. Igor Miroshničnka and Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the illegal construction of TES in the Ivankow region of Kiev using radiation-polluted wood that will increase radiation and threaten Ukraine's national environmental security. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the objective investigation of the facts of the threat posed by the Poltava City Head and the arson of a car belonging to Igor Lebedik, assistant consultant to the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergio Kaplin. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice on the verification of the violation by the judge of the Kremenchuk Auto-Vehicular Court of Justice of article 83 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges and the facts of the unlawful seizure of the media – Private Television "Visit". John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the inadequacy of textbooks approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of additional grants to the Ternopol education institutions to ensure the payment of salaries to the educational sector. Bogdan Benjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the attempted illegal occupation of the land of a small collective multi-profession enterprise called Zeus, attacked the lives of his director, Mikolia Lisenk. Bogdan Benjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on proposals for improved housing for young people, long-term loans. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure timely payment of salaries to workers in the social and cultural sphere of the Ternopil region, energy bills, care for children with disabilities, and repayment of creditors' debt for subsidies from the state budget of Ukraine. Valery Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of current legislation in the field of education in the Ryekaki educational complex of the Mashew district of Poltav region and the lack of activity of the prosecutor's office in this regard. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov District Council on artificial bankruptcy of the state-owned enterprise Agroceh "Saxaganski", the illegal actions of the arbitral resolution of Alexi Sokol, the delay in payment of salaries since November 2012 at the listed enterprise and the illegal allocation of land to the Society "Goodness" in the Sofia region of Dnipropetrov. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council for the Disposal of the State Enterprise "Agroceh "Jewtorichanski" of the Petyachat District of Dnipropetrova Region for the Management of Agriculture and for the Unsatisfactory Water Supply in the village of Suha Balka Dnipropetrova District as a result of the failure to implement the decision of the Dnipropetrova District Council No.289 of 18 December 2003. Andrija Tragniboka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to repair the road of state importance of Lviv - Uzhgrad within the city of Old Sambir. Lviv Mirymsky to the city’s city head on the purposeless use of the city of Simferopol’s budget and the provision of a copy of work documents for the work of the designated objects in Simferopol. Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy in the area of the provision of housing for young citizens. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of a special budget grant for the headship of the cows of meat production directly to tribal factories, tribal producers, and other agricultural enterprises in the Volin region. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a public education school in the village of Žuravniki Horochov County of Volin Region. Gregory of the U.S. Minister of Health in order to assist the Winnick district clinic for people with disabilities in the country’s war. July Lviccany to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for not giving an answer in essence to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for a parliamentary appeal regarding the transfer of buildings and military facilities to the municipal property of the city of Theodosia. John Bush to the U.S. State Statistics Service to provide statistical data on the nationality of Zacarpathian residents according to the 1946 census. Groups of National Deputies (Mohnika, Sabia, Martinyuka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the "Friend" cinema complex in Kamyanec-Podilski Hmelnicky region. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the situation of the closure of public educational institutions in the Hmelnicke district. Andrija Kozemyakina to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the improper investigation of the 2003 murder of Sergey Slusar and the failure of Ukraine’s law enforcement authorities to enforce the decisions of the courts in these matters. Anatolia Dirova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation during the conduct of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's open trade for the purchase of ambulances and their equipment. Andrija Kožemyakina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the non-response of the executive authorities to the Ukrainian National Deputies for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of parents whose children have died as a result of violent crimes. Alexander Mirna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the non-reorganization of the Children’s Dentistry Clinic of North London, which leads to violations of the constitutional rights of children living in the city of Severodoneck to protect their health. Vasil Pazinjak to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to consider the possibility of getting as soon as possible into the new register of recipients of the 4th city hospital of Lviv and the issuing of documents that confirm the humanitarian status of the cargo that he plans to send to Henry Nouen Foundation from Holland to equip the political aid department, to use appropriate response measures. Roman Vanzurjak, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Commission, which regulates the state energy sector to verify the legality of the Public Shareholders' activities, the Czernovcioblenergo Energy Supply Company, and to test the circumstances that suggest the abuse of power by the monopolies. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of individual officials of the Kyiv City State Administration in the delimitation of the land on Brusilivska Street,9 in Kiev, and the failure of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take action to restore the violated rights of the user of this area, Valentin Davidchuk. Mikoli Tomenka and Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of the "Kisser" stamps in pharmacies and branches of Ukraine. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the central executive authorities with regard to the resolution of the problem of the completion of the construction of the Crimson Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of the programme for the development of the central area of Donbas. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of medical equipment and medical supplies to the Chernobyl District Clinic. Group of National Deputies (Martinuka, Sabia, Benjuka) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal use of the symbolism of the Party of Regions at the Copačiv School of Public Education, I-III degrees. Valerija Chernjakov and Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of residents of the apartment building at the address: Hmelnicki city, Prospect of Peace, House 57/3. Valerija Černjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the legal right of residence of Vita Škelebej and her underage children, living in the city of Tajov Zakarpatski district. Boris Tarasyuk and Alexander Cronvolenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Cessation of Illegal Construction on a Ruined Tomb in Kiev. Mikhail Blawajkovo to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the preparation of the Jętanec Educational and Educational Complex "General Education Institution I-III Grades – Preschool Foundation" of the Kamyanka-Buzki District of Lviv Region until the heating season of 2013-2014. Victor Gubar to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the price claimed in Ukraine for Plavix cardiology. Lviv Mirimsky to head the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Property Fund for providing information on the alienation of the property at Yalta, Moskovska Street, No. Gennady Tkauk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations concerning the Jurin poison mogul in the Chargorod region of Winnitsk. Oleg Tajnibok to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the destruction of the monument to architecture, Badeni Palace in the village of the town type Koropac of the Monastery District of Ternopil. Edward Gurvitz to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper review by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Odessa District of Deputies regarding the conduct of a review of compliance with Ukrainian labour legislation by the Odessa City Council Health Authority in the form of a contract contract with the directors of Odessa’s public health institutions. Mr. Andrija Ivanchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the expenditure, the violation of legislation in the field of public procurement during the Ministry of Health of Ukraine’s public procurement in 2013. Edouard Gurwicz to the Prosecutor of Odessa District for the submission of the decision of the Odessa City Council No. 3606 of 18 June 2013 on the restructuring of the Municipal Hospital No. 1 of the name of the Resnick Academy, which has resulted in a significant deterioration in the quality of medical care for children living in Odessa. Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the violation of the laws on the protection of cultural heritage, the destruction of history, the location of the Dniper Force in March 1944, the death of thousands of people. Igora Yankiv and Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine for personal control of the investigation of a road accident committed in the state of alcohol abuse by Dmitry Redneck, which caused the death of a man. Andrew Illenka and Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal conduct of persons during a meeting of the local community of the city of Kamyanec-Podilski with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Vladislav Atroshenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander Vilkul, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of the residents of the stateless residential buildings belonging to the well-known housing fund. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the necessary measures and taking personal control of the situation regarding the illegal demolition of a building belonging to the territorial community of Kyiv and the construction of the land area at the address: the city of Kyiv, the street of Žiljanska, 120-B the contractor of the building – the closed-circuit company "ESCE". Jaroslava Dubnević, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Road Service in Lviv region, for the inclusion of an object in the list of construction, reconstruction, capital and current repairs of the roadways of general use for 2014. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the financing of investment programmes (projects) at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State budget for 2014 for the financing of the State scheme for the provision of subsidized long-term loans to young families and Lonely Young Citizens for the construction (renovation) and the acquisition of housing in the range foreseen by the State Programme for the amount of expenditure not included in the State budget for 2013 for the financing of the Programme, namely 1 billion 132 million 818 thousand dollars. Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to accelerate the construction of the theatre complex "Kyivska Theatre in the Podoli" in the 20-B Andriev Export in Kiev, with the aim of preserving the country's national cultural heritage. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state of preparation and implementation in 2014 in Ukraine - Year of participants in hostilities in other countries. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of housing rights in Kalinin Street, 2, in the Kodima district of Odessa. Paul Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the development of the Ukrainian Danube. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the work of the Obollonian District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev. Igora Schwaika and Igor Yankiva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the investigation of the so-called "Palamarian cases" and the release of the illegally convicted Sergei Djomin, Anton Haritonov and Eugenia Fedorchenka. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of power by the head of the Wallomir Homko City Council and other officials of the Plain City Council and the falsification of the voting procedure by members of the Council for the adoption of a decision on the issue of land allocation, which can testify to the corruption of the officials of the Plain City Council. Ruslan Zelik and Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal decision of the forty-fourth session of the Kamyanec-Podil City Council No. 147/44 of August 28, 2013. Igor Yankiv to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries at SP-1 Specbud of the Closed Stock Exchange Association of Berdjanskbud and the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the city of Berdjansk about the investigation of the offence committed. Valeria Golovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Youth Housing Programme 2013-2017. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the simplified cross of the Ukrainian-Romanian border in the local border movement. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the crisis situation that arose at the Barrier State Enterprise. Dmitri Andriyewski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of official information (explanation) and on the use of procurator's response measures to remove violations of the requirements of law in the course of the auction by the First Universal Exchange "Ukraine". Olega Orotyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, on the restoration of the legitimate rights of residents of the Hussietin district of Ternopil region in the transformation of ownership rights to land and on the investigation of fraud, illegal acts and the failure to comply with land laws, which resulted in the removal of land by a total area of 60 hectares from the territory of the Liczwetsk Rural Council of the Gustin region of Ternopil. Valeria Karpuntsov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the emergency state of sewerage networks of a city-type village of the New World of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which may lead to an extraordinary situation at the local level, as well as a lack of provision of drinking water to this facility, requiring immediate response measures to prevent an emergency situation in this region, providing adequate water supply to the inhabitants of this village. Oksana Sold to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to pay the city budget administrators. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the payment of salary from January 2012 to employees of the state-owned company Hersonagrolis. Rustama Raupov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the legality of the restructuring of children’s dentistry in the city of Severodoneck. Stephen Iwakhiv to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Volin District State Administration for the rescue of the wooden Dmitry Church in the village of Gishin Kovelski, is a monument to the architecture of national importance. Vladimir Dudka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive contribution to the immediate delivery of medicines as a humanitarian aid to the treatment of Mary Krupeni's three-month-old child. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the 2014 National Budget project of Ukraine, in line with the commitments of the Government of Ukraine, the targeted grants of the budget of the Ivano-Frankov region. Ruslan Skarbowiyczuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of citizens of Alexia and Valentina Ilchenk to receive State Social Assistance under the "Children of War" programme. Lidija Kotelak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation and the illegal seizure of the sanitary and environmental protection strip of Baikal by members of the Collective Agricultural Society of cement in the region of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Kivalova, Koleschenka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Administration, Odessa District Council, Odessa City Head, Odessa City Council on the need for urgent measures to ensure the construction of a highway of universal importance for the continuous movement in Odessa North-South. Irina Spirina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to members of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Novoskov Steel and Construction Plant". Stepan Kuba to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the timely provision of information on the calculation of part of the projected income to be allocated next year, which will be credited to the National Budget of Ukraine. Stepan Kuba to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objective and impartial investigation of the legality of the unsold asset management process, the liquidation of the Open Shareholder Society of the European Development and Savings Bank, and the involvement of those responsible. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of a groundless disconnection from the gas supply of apartment buildings with gas columns in the Chernivecki region. Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Luhansk region for violations of Ukrainian legislation regarding free dental care for children in the municipal health facilities of the city of Severodonecka. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conversion of the Kalusian city head of the Johno-Frankow region. Valeria Karpuntsov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the full, comprehensive and objective conduct of criminal investigations. Sergey Topalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the projects "Improving Change to the General Plan of the City of Sudak" and "Improving Change to the Detailed Plan of the Central Region of Sudak". Igor Vasyunika to the Lviv city head on the urgent need to complete the procedure for the transfer of prominent military residence to the property of the territorial community of Lviv. Vjechaslav Zadrožno to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the relocation of the inhabitants of the emergency residences in the area of Shamish's balcony in the town of Dniprožinsk. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on agreeing to the changes to the Environmental Action Plan for the budgetary programme "Implementation of Environmental Protection Measures" for 2013. Dmitry Schlemka and Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the inhabitants of rural communities for the transfer of land outside populated areas to the Land Data Bank. Taras Kutov and Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine to create obstacles to the start of the heating season and the raiding of thermal facilities in the city of Lovvice Poltava. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the availability of information on the results of clinical research on medical devices and the therapeutic equivalence of generics. Alexander Vasiliev to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the recognition of the goods that came from the charity of the Greek Medical Foundation Hippocratic. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine and, in particular, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine of the Kingdom of Natalia while considering the concerns of the German Evangelical and Lithuanian Church of Ukraine regarding the recognition of Christmas gifts by humanitarian cargo. Igora Miroshnicka and Alexander Mirny to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations in the field of housing rights, which are located on the floor of multi-family residential buildings for electricity consumption at prices set for the population. Vasil Pazinjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 26 August 2009 No. 1001 on the construction of pipelines and an immediate solution to the gasification of the city of Rava-Rusca Zovkovsky of the region of Lviv, located in the immediate vicinity of the border of the European Union, and to the financing of the completion of the underwater pipeline "Dobrosin-Rava-Ruska". Denisov's people to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the irresponsible conduct of the employees of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, led by Minister Natalia Royal of the German Evangelical and Lithuanian Church of Ukraine, regarding humanitarian aid. Jurya Derevyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for the non-calculation by the State Treasury Service of funds to local budgets in Ukraine in general and city budgets: Kallus, Ivano-Frankivsk and Sumi, in particular, as well as the failure to make adequate payments to ensure their proper functioning. Jurya Derevyanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at the speedy removal of land in the Carpathian National Natural Park and its subsequent transfer to the citizens of the respective territorial communities, pursuant to Presidential Decree No 215/2010 of 23 February 2010 on the extension of the territory of the Carpathian National Park. Vladimir Chuba to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the creditor's debt for the medical equipment provided to Alcevsk. Groups of National Deputies (Thank you, Lithuania, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on illegal actions and over-authorisation of officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Žitomir region. Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to violate the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation and the lack of proper action by the authorities of the State executive authorities regarding the provision of State control over the use of urban equipment. Groups of people’s deputies (Lithuania, Thanksgiving, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Protection of the Violations of the Rights of the National Manufacturer, the Research Plant of the Welding Equipment of the Institute of Power welding of the Name Patton National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Jury Stac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the employees of the Comsomol district department of the Hersson City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the course of a preliminary investigation into the attack on journalists of the news agency "Tavria News" Alexander Tarasov and Valerija Mironyuk. Jury Stac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Dniprovsky District Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev in the course of pretrial investigation and the closure of criminal conduct in the case of the beating of photojournalist Vitali Lazebnik. Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the non-admission to fabricating criminal conduct following the fact of road and transport accidents with the consequences of aircraft on 2 August 2013 in the city of Chernivka, and on the evidence of the misreforming of the accident at the stage of the pretrial investigation by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the region of Montenegro. Roman Vanzurjak to Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding in 2014 works to build an underwater pipeline in the village of the city type of Deep Cherniewsky region. Petra Prašenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the attempt to raid a rest base for the Blind "Ivuška" in the Obuchi district, a village of the town-type Kozin. Vitalia Jaremi to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the legal responsibility of persons who have illegally acquired the produce of a sunflower belonging to the owners of land (generally eight persons) located in the area of the Kazanka Rural Council of the Mikolai Region. Groups of National Deputies (Bushka, Haydosha and others – only 5 deputies) to the head of the Ukrainian State Statistics Service on the identification of the Russian Nationality in the 2001 census. People’s Deputies ( Bondarev, Lukianchuk, and others A total of 4 deputies) to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal involvement in the criminal responsibility of the candidate in the Ukrainian National Deputies, Victor Romanyuk. Irina Lucenko to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Judge Preyaslav-Hmalnicke District Court of Kiev. Irina Lucenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Kobeljak District Department employees of the Ministry of Interior in the region of Poltava. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine, prosecutor of Kiev, on the legality of reconstruction and removal of residents from a dormitory on the street of Education,16-A in Kiev. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-recognition of Christmas gifts by the humanitarian cargo of the German Evangelical and Lutheran Church of Ukraine by the employees of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the dismantling of the cultural monument — the house of the Chumak in the village of Morinz, Cherkas region. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide for children who have suffered from an accident at CHAES with two-time daily hot meals in public schools. Igora Schwaika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the examination of the illegal activities of the Kharkiv City Council, the Rector of the Kharkiv National Medical University of Vladimir Lisov, and the Executive Service on the removal of the residence of Professor Mikoli Klimenko's family. Alexander Shevchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the destruction of the peat sector of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Tomenka, Yavorowski) to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture regarding the observance of the rules for the reconstruction of the cultural monument — the house of the Chumak in the village of Morinz, Cherkas region, and the provision of information on the planned arrangements within the framework of the Chevchenk days. On behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee of Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, the Heads of the State Archive Service of Ukraine, the Heads of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Heads of the Sebastopol City Public Administration, the Heads: Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovski, Dorekski, Zhartomerski, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Kyivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovsky, Kirovsky, Luhanski, Herzewski, Herzewski, Herzewski, the Herzewskihski, the Herzewskih, the Herzewskihskihskih, the Sowskih, the Sowski period of the Sowskih, the Sowski periodine, the Sowski periodalski period of the Sow Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the Antopil - Žitomir bus route through the village of Leonovka of the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region and for the granting of payment to certain categories of citizens according to Ukrainian legislation. Viktor Razwadowski to Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir district government administration for the provision of synthetic coating for the construction of a sports workshop in the village of Pechanovka in the district of Žitomir. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for preventing the construction of a life-threatening and health-threatening facility, a thermal power plant, in an area that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and has the status of a zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the infrastructure problems of Kuznetsovska and the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the needs of citizens. Olega Ljaska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the rental of three million hectares of Ukrainian agricultural land to the Chinese. Eugene Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-refundability of deposit funds to the Private Shareholders Association of Westinkombank and the failure to comply with court decisions. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the status of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office's Office's hearings to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of combating organized crime and corruption. Eugene Melnik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the improper performance of his duties by state officials of the Vladimir-Volín Ministry of Justice, the Department of State Executive Services of the Novovolin City Administration of Justice, the Department of State Executive Services of the Ivanichov District Department of Justice in the Volinsk Region. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the rightfulness of the deprivation of the Private Shareholders' Association of the "Brovar Trade Union" of property rights to non-residential housing of 11 million dollars and the use of necessary measures to protect the property rights of shareholders of the company. Svetlana Fabricant to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to fulfil the State's obligations to pay off the creditors' debt to the Elcon Design entity, which employs disabled persons who threaten the existence of an enterprise. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources to the Zakartat region. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on urgent measures to combat corruption in the higher authorities. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on urgent measures to combat corruption in the higher authorities. Vitaly of the Ingredient to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the budget provided for in the 2013 State Budget for Ukraine to secure the performance of the debt. Alexander Donya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the preservation of a local monument in the centre of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Dubila, Zubka, Čuhunnikova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Committee's recommendations on the state of implementation of Ukraine's housing rights laws. Vladimir Pekhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at financing from the State budget of Ukraine the reconstruction of the surgical corps of the central city hospital in the city of Korosten of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Pekhov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for urgent measures aimed at restoring the rights violated by the village of Grozine Korosten district of Žitomir district of Love Kalnik. Vasil Samylenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of power, law enforcement authorities on the payment of salaries to employees of the private stock company Quarcit, a village of the city type Prvotravensk, Ovrutsky district, Žitomir district. Vasil Samylenkado, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, on the groundless activities of the state-owned liquor and liquor industry Ukrispirt at the end of production production on the July IPD DP "Ukrespirt" of the Žitomir region. Michael the apostle to the Attorney General of Ukraine on ensuring a full and objective and comprehensive investigation of the crime committed against Boris Hellet and on the legality of the activities of law enforcement officials who investigated the criminal case. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the need to carry out a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court order to obtain alimony to support a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Ruslana Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Administration, the Kyiv District Council, the Kyivo-Swiatoshin Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the need for a comprehensive examination of citizens' appeals regarding the illegal possession of land in the territory of the Forest Council of the Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kiev and the use of appropriate response measures to ensure the restoration and protection of ownership of land. Oxana Sold to the Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine on the Inadequacy of the Order of the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine since 9 September 2013 No. 455 of the Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. Fedor Negoya to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the critical situation in the agricultural complex of the Skadovian region of the Hersonian region. Valentina Matvieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the remembrance of Hero of the Soviet Union Jogin Sylvester Eudomimovich. Vladimir Pilpenka to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the transfer of the date of the celebration of the All-U.S. Day of Culture Workers and Masters of National Art. Alexander Korniychuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the use of response measures in relation to officials of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate in the Vinnitsk Region. Andrija Tajniboka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to repair the road in Sambir - Old Sambi - Turka to the Zacarpathian district. Alexander Prisznyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundless merger of the Luginsky District State Administration of the Zitomir Region, the Education Department and the Family Sector, the youth and the sports sector that had previously functioned separately. Alexander Sr. to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the investigation of the illegal eviction of residents of the military town of 136 and on the responsibility of persons who committed illegal acts, violating the right to reside and to live with more than thirty families with children. Groups of National Deputies (Hmila, Universal, and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the immediate use of measures to halt the raiding of private property, the illegal interference of the enterprise by the directors of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Lviv and the Lviv region, the baseless violation of criminal cases with the aim of intimidating the owner of property, and the cessation of corruption by the prosecutor of the Lviv district and the prosecutor of the city of Lviv. Viktor Turmanov and Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of wages for work done to workers of mining enterprises and organizations. Vasil Derevljana to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the legal assessment of the documents sent by the Prosecutor's Office of the Lanovecki district of the Ternopil district to the heads of the village, requesting that copies of the documents and measures be duly certified to bring the activities of the district prosecutor's office to the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. Oksana Kaletnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the legislative requirements during the passenger transport competition on the general bus routes, which took place on 8 November 2012. Tetjana Sluz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Agricultural Inspectorate, for the purpose of carrying out a verification of illegal use, ownership and land use reserve and reserve in the territory of Chernigiv region. Tetjana Sluz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Government Administration, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the provision of compressed gas to residents of the Czernig region. Irina Sech to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the free replacement of the language processor to the sick child Maxim Graham, a resident of Bousk Lviv district. Igora Ribakova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to prevent the closure of the Ponornicka district hospital in the region of Chernigiv. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the completion of the construction of the State Archive of the Ternopil Region with the aim of transferring the premises of the former Dominican Monastery to the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church. Jury Orotyuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Heads of the Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Zaporzik, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Lvivsky, Mikolaiivski, Odesk, Poltawski, Poltawski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Kharkovsky, Hersonski, Hmelnicksky, Cherkaske, Cherniewsky, Chernievskih district administrationske, Chernigiv district authorities on the status of the implementation of the arrangements for the preparation and observance of the 200-year anniversary of Taras. Istwana Haydosh and Ivan Popescu to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent action to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the catastrophic situation that has arisen with the deadline for recognition of humanitarian aid and the unfair counting of pennies. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of corruption and gross violations of Ukraine’s environmental legislation by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration in the village of Podgorka and the possible environmental disaster on the site. Olga Fight to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on decentralization and proper distribution of funds to ensure the functioning of the state-owned enterprise Ukrovetsanzavod. Vladimir Kurenny of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal appointment of the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Vladimir Kurenny to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the uncontrolled use of financial resources by the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment of over one hundred and eighty million dollars. Sergey Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of transferring the terms of the autumn holidays to the Zakarpathian Schools. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014 in part of the implementation of capital repair, modernization, replacement of elevator equipment and distribution systems. Alexander Golub to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for drawing the responsibility of Ukrainian national deputies from the All-Ukrainian Association "Freedom" of Dragnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich and Osukhov Oleg Ivanovich for obstructing the legitimate professional activities of journalists. Alexander Sic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of entities of authority in the part of the proper management of the Prikarpathian State Intelligence Company and the timely rehabilitation of the enterprise, which led to his bankruptcy and the incurrence of debt from the payment of salaries to employees. Anton Dorokhov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the legality of setting up a metal fence on a land plot in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of the debt owed to the State-owned company "The Knife Combine of Agricultural Products" and the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the combination. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of decisions taken by the city head of Chernigov and the Mesquique Czernigov City Council regarding the utility company Chernigiv Trolebus Management. Andrija Mishchenka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration for the illegal transfer of the Cossack shrines of the Wiccan Church of the Holy Goddess from the Nicopolian National Museum to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate). Sergei Gordienka, head of the National Sanitary Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, for violations of sanitary standards and regulations in the construction of the camp of calibration and poisoning of grain in the Society's territory with limited responsibility "Connon's Elevator" in the village of Lazorka Orzric district of Poltava, which threatens the life and health of the people. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, on the unbiased and biased investigation and trial of the case of a traffic accident at the hands of Lubna resident Yuri Portianika. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Kiev City Administration, Head of the Sevastopol City Administration, Heads of the Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Zaporziski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Luganski, Lvivski, Mikolaiivski, Odesk, Poltavaski, Susski, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Hmelnick, Cherkaski, Cherniewski, Chernievski district administration to ensure the repayment of arrears of earnings in Ukraine. Sergia Kaltseva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion in the Ukrainian National Budget 2014 draft of the project, with the aim of granting a subsidy to finance the construction of a large apartment building to solve the problem of housing in the village of Pavlov-Kichkas, Zaporozhye. Jurya Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding from the state budget of Ukraine vital to the city of Reni Odessa. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the use of measures to rebuild the Nicopol Group Water Force to the villages that form part of the Novosofi Rural Council of the Nikopol region of Dnipropetrov. Boris Tarasyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Auditors, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal delay in payment of unemployment assistance in the city of Uzgrad and the need to increase unemployment assistance to the level of living minimum in Ukraine. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of local water treatment plants for drinking needs in the budgetary institutions of the district of Strys region of Lviv. Igor Sabia to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inactivity of the State Land Agency in the Hmeljna Region and Kamyanec-Podil District Administration regarding the approval of documentation for the conclusion of lease agreements with the Private Shareholders Association "Hipsovik". Irina Farion to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the requirements of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (the case of the application of Ukrainian language) of December 14, 1999 No.10-pp/99 on the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language as the State Rector of the National Aerospace University of Kharkiv Aviation Institute Volodymyr Kristsov and the lecturers of this university. Irina Pharion to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Vitaly Zacharychenk, to the threat of physical execution of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the creation of premeditations for the effective use of the agricultural potential of the Kakhov region of the Hersonian region and for the constitutional right of residents of the region to a sufficient standard of living. Alexia Kunchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of natural gas consumption in the presence of electric water heating equipment during periods of lack of centralized hot water supply. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences for the inhabitants of the villages of Marazliyvka, Primorska Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk region and Mirne Kiliy district of Odessa region as a result of the adoption of the Decision of the Shareholders' Board of Stocks from 3 October 2013 No691 on the closure of the separate territorially separated non-balanced branches of the Stockholders' Savings Association. Vladimir Schulga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the city of Roma County. Grenevetsky's Sergey to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation with the State's funding of the scheme for the granting of extended loans to young families and single young citizens for the construction (restructuring) and the acquisition of housing. Igor Miroshnicken and Alexander Mirny to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal conduct by the Kyiv City State Administration of competitive trades in respect of restoration works at the Magdeburg Memorial in the city of Kyiv, Delhi, and the legality of these works in memory of architecture and the use of urgent measures to respond to the misappropriation of budgetary resources. Andrija Parubia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the compatibility by Ludmila Dromasko of the post of city head of Pervomayska with the position incompatible with her service activity. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of police officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Poltavska region in criminal activities concerning Leonid Schovkovsky and the presence of corruption in the activities of Deputy Chief of Public Security of the Volossian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Anatolia Grizzenka. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on civil rights violations and social tensions in the provision of housing and utility services to the city council of Poltava. Mikoli Fedoruka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of the State Youth Housing Programme for 2013-2017. Mikoli Fedoruk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on unjustified delays in making decisions regarding the recognition of cargo by humanitarian aid. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the premises of the Monastery located on Sagajdajdajny Street in Ternopol to the property of the Department of the Ternopil-Zborovy Archdiocese. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at the proper accounting and cassation services through the State Treasury Service and payments made to the treasury accounts of the city budget of Zaporozhye. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activities of members of the organized criminal group "Ansim" in Zaporozky and Vilnius areas of the Zaporozhye Region and the sources of funding for its activities related to sand theft, activities in the field of ritual services, the acquisition of budgetary resources and land. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Tomenka, Heratschenko) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of the Spolyan District Council in the Cherka district of the decision to reorganize hospitals. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Tomenka, Heratschenko) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the targeted use of the budget allocated to the cleansing of the Himalayan bet in the village of Melniki of the Chigirin district of the Cherka region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of participation in paid public work of unemployed people in employment. Oleg Zarubinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the shortening of the deadlines for the appointment of social assistance, the granting of licences, permits and other administrative services under new communication capabilities. Oleg Knavejkoh to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the improper performance of the service by the officials of the prosecutor’s office in Kiev. Oleg Knavejkoh to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of duty, the excess of official powers, the disbursing of public funds in particular large-scale and other corruption activities by officials of the State Special Transport Service and the use of measures to involve guilty persons in the responsibility for the recovery of public funds and the elimination of violations of current legislation. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the wrongdoing of the city’s city head, Zbaraza. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the deliberate, illegal inaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Righteous District of Kiev to investigate the appeal of members of the Housing and Building Corporation "Crystal-20"; the District Prosecutor's Office has promised tens of times in reasonable terms, objectively and impartially to complete the investigation of criminal conduct, but still violates the law. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for another financial affair on the higher levels of government led by the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogazu and the private companies of Dmitr Firtas, which resulted in losses of the national budget of two billion dollars, or 4.8 billion cubic metres of gas from the stocks of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogazu, at a time when pensions and budget payments are no longer paid. Anatolia Dirova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the immediate investigation of the facts of the purchase by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine at the higher prices of ambulances, which will be equipped with inadequate medical equipment. Viktor Butkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal from custody and the possibility of using ambulances by the State Service of Ukraine from emergency situations. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk district administration on the urgent investigation of the death of a patient in Gorlovka Donecka. Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Equality District State Administration on the urgent investigation of the causes and circumstances of the outbreak of measles in the Rhine region. Vitalia Jaremi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the payment of victims, disabled persons, participants in the liquidation of the effects of the accident on CHEUS pensions and compensations in scale established by the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the enforcement of court decisions in this area. Mr. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the property rights of the agricultural cooperative "Lostic Milk Source". Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for improper consideration by the management of the Municipal Enterprise Housing Service, for statements by the citizen of Gennady Galinsky on the elimination of differences in the draft agreements on the provision of municipal services. Leontia Martinyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the destruction of the Chumak House in the village of Morinz of the Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region. Andrija Ivanchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation in the field of public procurement during the conduct of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's trade in the purchase of medical supplies for patients with chronic viral hepatitis. Igor Alekseyev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the initiation of the prosecution's review of bankruptcy and the liquidation of the Donbasaero airline, which has resulted in possible large-scale abuse of salaries paid to former employees. Omeljana Parubka to Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the allocation of land to the farm "Victoria" in the Spolyan region of the Cherkas region. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the rightfulness of bringing charges against the deputy of the Basilkow City Council of Kiev, Sergiyev Vasilovich Bebelzo (Criminal Case No. 1.10/12). Jury Crook to the head of the Odessa District Public Administration for funding from the State Fund for Regional Development of Social and Cultural Assignments of Ishmaelsky, Rhine and Balgrade Districts of the Odessa Region. Andrija Pishna to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on violations of the requirements of electoral legislation in part of the registration by candidates who have the same names as already registered candidates in the one-man election district No. 94 of Ukraine's re-elections in the one-man election districts No. 94, 132, 194, 197, 223. Vasil Gladys, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the urgent steps taken to repair the road in the Kosovska and Vrhovina mountains of the region of Ivano-Frankov. Groups of National Deputies (Coastal, Murayeva and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the protection of the constitutional rights of the territorial community of Irpeña to use natural objects and to prevent illegal use and construction of a cultural and recreational park at the address of the city of Irpin, Yellow Street of Nathan Ribak. Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a forecast in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2014 for the production of project and cost-saving documentation and for the renovation and restoration of the architecture of the Blue Masters Palace in the village of the town-type Mejibiz Litichov Region of the Hmelnitsk Region. Andrija Mohnika to the head of the Vinnick district administration, the procurator of the Winnitsk district for the illegal demolition of two school football stadiums in the street area, between the streets of Kelecka and Stahurski in Vinnica, and the construction of the area. Maria Matios and Irina Heraszczenko to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the acting deputy director of the National Historical Museum of Ukraine. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the position of director of the Institute of Innovation Technology and the content of education of Alexander Udoda, whose service negligence and inactivity led to the publication of 431 thousand 650 copies of inadequacy school textbooks in mathematics for the 1st and 2nd classes, which the Institute of Ukrainian Language of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine found unusable. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the Ukrainian Minister of Education and Science's position as Minister of Education and Science and the need to take urgent steps to remedy the shortcomings in the education literature system of Ukraine's educational institutions. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the grounds for "blocking" by the State Treasury Office of Ukraine in the Chernivsky region of payment of funds from the special fund of the Chernivecki National University of Jurija Fedeković and, as a result, the delay in payment of salaries to teachers and the use of measures by the Attorney General of Ukraine to remove violations of Ukrainian constitutional rights. Jacob Besbach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Alexander Villkull, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Regional Development, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council, Dnipropetrov City Council, Dnipropetrov City Chief of Finance on the need to finance the design and construction of the drinking water supply and the system of the Samuprov district water supply district. Jacob Besbach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to control the criminal case. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Odessa District Prosecutor's Office regarding the renewal of the rights of property and housing rights of minors of Bogen and Simon Vergun. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into road traffic accidents that took place on October 1, 2013, on the street of Russia in Ternopol, which resulted in the average severity of bodily harm. Igor Krivetsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office as head of the Turkish District Department of Land Resources in the province of Lviv, Mikhail Yusipovich. Sergia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent legislative settlement of issues in the area of funeral and ritual services.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u29	Requesting National Deputy Catherine Vaschuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for urgent action by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to clear the humanitarian burdens of the charities of the Volin region. Request for the National Deputy Arthur Palace to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arbuzov, to repay the debt owed to Ukraine's state-owned enterprise The International Children's Centre, Artek, from the State Budget of Ukraine. Requesting National Deputy Arthur Palatno to Finance Minister of Ukraine Kolobov to pay off the debt owed to the Ukrainian state-owned enterprise Artek International Children's Centre from the National Budget of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! There's two suggestions: the first proposal -- we're going with you now to consider the question in the "Variable" hour, and then we're closing the morning session. Second sentence: we now announce a recess and we will consider the "Variance" as provided for by the 13th hour regulation. What offer do you prefer? First one, right? People's deputies please sign up for a question from the "Virgin." National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of all the people who are following the session of the Supreme Council on the situation that has taken place today in Parliament, the situation that has taken place today in the country. What is happening in Parliament today is very clear to us that Ukrainian power, led by Viktor Yanukovic, is not just playing with opposition factions, it is playing with Ukraine. The only question is, what is the price of this game and how this game ends? Obviously, after meeting with Vladimir Putin in Sochi, the authorities have decided to break the signing of the agreement in Vilnius, and all its recent actions are very clear about that purpose. I think our citizens need to understand very well that the hundredth version of the Timoshenko solution proposed by Yanukovich to the mission and to us is just an attempt to "not solve" this question. So it seems to me that everyone today should understand very well that Viktor Yanukovic has taken the responsibility of doing everything we can to prevent us from signing a treaty in Vilnius and putting the country to the mercy of Russia and implementing the Russian Peace Project. I don't see any other reasonable explanation as to how we can do nothing in the last week in Parliament, in the government and in the President, and in the Cox-Kwasnevsky mission, which celebrates today's 25th arrival in Ukraine, to continue to listen to these stories from the President and from the President's Administration, that they will finally start solving Timoshenko's case and finally form another working group after trying to solve Timoshenko's case. Once again, I understand that they're starting to put themselves in the press these days, and it's going to be done that the opposition that we're not going to compromise is guilty of. I want to say again, all the responsibility and all the blame for the possible failure of signing up to Vilnius personally on the President and on his team. It's pretty obvious. Today, Viktor Janukovic is doing other things. He began changing the heads of district administrations. Today we have one family journalist soon, friends, because 90 percent of the Internet has been bought by the President’s family, and TV is on the market. Janukovic prepares for the presidential election campaign for himself and his team. He absolutely doesn't care what the fate of Ukraine is, and what will be done in Vilnius. That's why I want to go back to our citizens. You must understand very well that, as of today, the authorities have taken a course in integration into the so-called "mysterious union" with the ideological doctrine of the Russian World. It's a very close doctrine to them. They don't understand what European values are, they don't understand what European choice is. So I think that today, as an opposition, we have to do everything we can to prevent this scenario and to ensure the European choice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u31	National MP Pavlov, faction of a party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u32	Constantine Pavlov, faction of the Party of Regions, Major of the 401, Dniproperty. Please pass the word to Alexandre Ivanovich Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u33	Put the microphone on the stand. National MP Momot, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u34	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk, Party of Regions. Dear Head, dear colleagues, I would like to raise the issue of youth policy. On September 27, this year, the President signed an order approving a youth policy strategy by 2020. Among the main directions are to provide affordable education, employment, housing. The problem of deteriorating physical and mental health for young people needs to be addressed. Let us face the truth. Much is said about the urgency of working hard with young people, but it goes very slowly from words to words. The problem, in my view, of the imperfections of regulation, of the low level of interaction between central and local executive authorities and public associations, which represent the interests of young people, the inaccuracy of defining the rights and duties of young people, formalism in the implementation of projects and initiatives. I think that this situation has resulted in the fact that in the process of creating legislative initiatives, the thought of young people is not really taken into account; they are excluded from the process. I represent the 27th district in which most of the heights of the Dnipropetrovsk are located. I talk to young people all the time, and I see that they don't trust slogans, they want real, concrete action. Let me give you an example. Last summer, I was asked by students to install Wi-Fi in hostels. I found caring entrepreneurs who supported the idea. Students took over the entire organization. Today, 40 Dnipropetrovska hostels have access to the Internet. The main principle is not to put fish in your hands, but to teach them how to fish. We have to educate young people about responsibility, about public responsibility, about bringing up, in my mind, about setting an example, about teaching them what they really are. I call on the deputies to start with themselves -- and to create, on the basis of their social reception centers, youth participation in ideas and suggestions, to run round tables, and to discuss future legislative changes. You need to work not only with students living in large cities but also with young people working or studying in PTUs and colleges and with rural youth. In this way we will get really relevant and understandable laws and bring up caring and conscious citizens. Young people are beautiful, they need to be heard, they need to speak in their language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u35	People's Deputy Shipko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u36	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Nikopol city, Ordjonikidze-Nicopolsk district Deputies! Dear voters! As Ukraine’s national deputy, elected in 35 districts, I receive almost every day a call from my voters in Nicaragua. Hundreds of hardworking, proactive, healthy people are concerned about the situation in which the Nicopolis Ferrospile plant was located. It's a city-based enterprise. Because of cloudy and ever - rising electricity tariffs, the plant was forced to stop 11 out of 16 ferrous furnaces without receiving the expected state support. Electricity tariffs in Ukraine have been rising, and prices for ferro-flying in the world have remained constant since 2010. An enterprise without State support loses its external markets with appropriate social consequences. Think about these numbers. 2,200 people are one third of the employees of the business without a job. Those who work now are concerned about the possibility of losing it. Whole families may run out of means to exist in the event of further escalation of the crisis, and this, I'm drawing your attention, is 24,000 people in the city of Nicopol. To date, the plant meets all the criteria for obtaining long-awaited State support, according to Government Decree 912 of October 1, 2012. By May of this year, I had already approached Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Boyk with an appropriate request for measures to prevent the operation of one of the best metallurgical industries. I am aware that, according to Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Boyk, the government was given a mandate in June to the central executive authorities to consider setting up a special tariff on electricity for the production of ferrofuelers. I demand the heads of the professional ministries and the members of the working group to provide state support to mining and metallurgical enterprises to take immediate action to prevent the nicopol plant from being stopped. Please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Mikoli Janović Azarov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u37	People's Deputy Bublik, Freedom faction. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u38	I'd like to give you a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u39	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished National Fellows! I think for all Ukrainians, the name Igor Zvaric is associated with bribery, corruption. This is the famous Christmas judge who sits behind bars today. Sadly, though, his work is alive and well. Now you'll see what it's all about. So the husband of the sister of Zvarič, the judge of the Mikolai district court of Lvova Igor Carbovnik. Today, he lives in Lviv on 32 Street, in an apartment that is not his property. He has lived for more than 10 years. And the point is, as a lawyer, then a state-owned firm called Lvivsilmash, he did a number of actions that allowed him to take over this facility, to carry out an illegal reconstruction in the area of a kindergarten known in this room, and to make an apartment. This was done along with his associates by falsifying the stockholders ’ protocols. After that, Igor Carbovnik became a judge of the Mikolai District Court. For more than 10 years now, he cannot be forced out by his legal owners, the legal owners of this apartment. What is happening today in our life, in our judicial system? Substantial corruption, a thorough message, and a complete cover-up of crime. I was approached by a citizen of Havronska, who is the legal owner of an apartment purchased on 32 Sulimi Street, an apartment that once belonged to a child's garden in the Lviv-Silmash State Enterprise. After that, the company went bankrupt. After that, the entire state - owned enterprise was transferred to banks. And it ended up in private hands. The bank was selling its property. And by the third hand, the man had bought a legal apartment. But for two years she cannot settle there because Judge Igor Carbovnik, who now lives in an apartment without any reason, does not allow her to do so without any documents, concealing her integrity as a judge, covering up a circular message. Moreover, thanks to the assistants who are, by the way, Mr. Kosenko, who defended Judge Zvaric in his time, saying that two million dollars of his money and even made it to the SS. They hand over the illegal owners of the apartment who bought this apartment to the court and try to have legal owners condemn these apartments. This is the "creature" that continues in our judicial system, and it will continue forever. If Mr. Portnow and all the people who appoint judges and Carbovnik here, by the way, have been assigned to our courtroom forever, they will not keep track of who they grant such a right to, and will not keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u41	Nor will they see to it what decisions such judges make. I very much ask you to look into this situation and restore the legal rights of citizens who have all the documents and the right to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u42	The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u43	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Chernigovishte. After my election to Parliament, I was assigned to the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association in Montenegro, where I came from. During this year, I held over 100 meetings with the city’s communities, villages, and districts. They concluded that some 180 references were made to authorities and law enforcement agencies. The main problems of the people of Montenegro are the result of the policy, improvement and optimisation implemented by the Party of Regions. Their authorities are planning to destroy the Ukrainian village. Only in the last year did 27 villages disappear from the map of Montenegro, and this is official. Villagers are given the right to schools, kindergartens, medical facilities, road connections, and food rations. A recent example of a general education school in the 1st degree of the village of Larynovka Novgorod-Siberia, which was planned by the authorities to close. The school was able to stand, but only after the MP’s appeal and the feasting of the community. A nursery for children with disabilities in Priluki, a school in the village of Lemesh Kozeletsky district, and in the village of Dibrovna Gorodnjan district is at risk. At Bottom, parents, teachers for the support of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union are fighting the destruction of school No. 2. The same is true in the area of health care. People have collected thousands of signatures against the closure of medical facilities: in Baturin, in the villages of Rubanka and Kropitna Bahmatka district, in the villages of the Red Partisans of the Nosov region, against the Children’s Centre of Cardiology in Chernigov. But the Party of Regions is insolently trying to continue to carry out its shameful reforms through its holies. A critical situation in the area of wage payments and child feeding. It's been six months since the payoff at the state-owned Ninja Hickenhouse. And only after the intervention of the All-U.S. Freedom Group did the money they made start paying off. The same is true of the Ladan factory called the Posecamachine, which is on the verge of extinction. Catastrophe situation with the feeding of children in kindergartens Thus, in Bachmach, the expenses paid by parents for feeding their children have been blocked by the treasury for the fourth month. No more talking about blocking the treasury to repair roads, schools, hospitals. The situation in the religious sphere is tense. The government ignores the request of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate for the separation of land and the approval of the construction of temples. Such a situation is especially so in the House of Nuns and Stors. A court decision has not been executed in Montenegro for two years. Today, only the active position of the community allows us to resist the lawlessness of that authority. And the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is doing its best to protect the Ukrainians' right to a decent life in Montenegro. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u44	Invite the national deputies to the session room, and important questions will be considered. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Laszko, a non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to draw the attention of the community and the law enforcement agencies to the work of the Crown Governor John Silent. I'm going to get a lot of references from the citizens, from the producers about this manager's activities. In particular, it is reported that under the direction of Governor Muqcan, his deputies, heads of departments, and administrations collect $5 worth of money from farmers for each tonne exported outside the grain area. That's what the governor does! Budgeters are not paid salaries, one of the first places in Ukraine on payroll debts, and they collect money from farmers that they put in the governor’s pocket. Next. There's a private farm called the Cross, owned by the governor's firm. So the farmers, the small farmers, they take the land and they make everyone go to this firm, make deals with this company. And when this Kraža company comes to the villages, if there were cows or farms in the villages before they come, there's nothing left after they come, because they're draining the land, they're exporting everything they can, they're destroying jobs, they're taking down farms, they're taking down the cows. This is the last piece of information I received literally yesterday. The Ukrainian Security Service has drafted a report on corruption activities for the Chief of Consumer Protection Inspector Sichenko Winnitsky. And what do you think the governor is helping to bring corruption to Sichenko's attention? No, Governor Movchan is, on the contrary, pressing the court, on the prosecution's office to withdraw the protocol and to keep the corrupt person from taking responsibility, for his hand is washing. All these nephews and stuff like that, who are they setting an example for? From the governor. He's taking it, so they're taking it. In addition, I appeal to the residents of the village of Matyashovka in Latin, who have been informed that there is almost daily sabantou in front of the governor, the heads of administration, and the stakes fertilize from morning to evening. So I would advise those alkalinists who go there and wash off the bribes they take, that they better spend their time creating jobs for peasants, that crops be, that there be no corruption in the area, so that they don't rob farmers. Because I'm going to come to Matyashovka, I'm going to wet them, I'm going to help them sit there, I'm going to drown them in those ponds, and I think the vines are just saying thank you. I ask you to consider this a parliamentary appeal to the Attorney General: to hold him responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u46	The Paternal Deputy of Paris, the Fatherland faction, gives the floor to the National MP Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! The factions' heads of factions have just concluded with the participation of representatives of the European Parliament, namely EU missions, two Cox and Kwasniewski presidents. As we stated yesterday, the opposition is ready for any compromise, for any compromise that will enable Ukraine to sign the Agreement with the European Union on 28 November. The opposition is ready, and the authorities are not ready for anything. We saw that in the speaker's office there was a screenplay of the collapse of the summit of Ukraine-EU. All the proposals the Ukrainian opposition has made to its political opponents regarding the adoption of any laws that allow for the provision of medical assistance to Julia Timoshenko, rejected by our political opponents. Despite this, we now claim that we are ready to vote in favour of the first reading of the two bills, namely the Procuratorship Act and the People's Deputies of Ukraine Act, as drafted by the President and edited by the Party of the Regions. And we officially state that Tuesday, at the request of more than 150 people's deputies in Ukraine, the Speaker of Parliament is obliged to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at which three bills are to be passed: the first bill to allow Julia Timoshenko to receive medical care, the second bill to be passed by the Prosecutor's Office in general, and the third bill to be passed by the People's Deputies of Ukraine Act as a whole. In the event that the Party of the Regions will appear in parliament on Tuesday and vote in favour of these three laws, it means that the agreement in Vilnius will be signed. If the Party of Regions ignores an emergency meeting and refuses to uphold these three laws, that means only one thing: The Party of Regions and the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, have destroyed the European future of Ukrainians, and they have the full responsibility. We are demonstrating the act of goodwill and will not allow you to blame us for the breakdown of the summit. We vote in favour of the first reading of the two laws of Yanukovitch and the Party of Regions, and we ask you to vote on Tuesday for the last three laws, including the Law on Yulia Timoshenko, which will open the way to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u48	Please give the floor to my colleague, Oleg Bukhovtz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u49	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! The acute problem in our country is that providing people with their own homes, particularly young people, is always one of the main issues of public policy, but today its relevance has increased most. In an economic situation in the state, the income level of the population is when the average wage of young people, for example in Kiev, is about 3,000 dollars, and the market value of a square meter of housing in Kiev is 10,000 dollars. The same ratio is observed in all regions of Ukraine. Of course, the availability of government youth housing programs is essential. Moreover, it is the only possible way to buy your own housing for average young citizens. That is why there are more than one million people in the state budget who need improvement in living conditions. The lack of confidence among young people in the ability to obtain their own housing for their families contributes to the development of trends that are dangerous to the State, namely, mass emigration and demographic decline. Thus, 47 percent of young people in Ukraine note that the absence of a home is a major deterrent in making decisions about the birth of children. In addition, according to the Institute of Demographics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, emigration of young people becomes more intellectual, and one of the deterrents for this category of young people is also the existence of real prospects for getting their own housing. In vain, however, it is necessary to eliminate the causes. There's a few of them. But the main thing remains the annual underfunding of Ukraine’s government budget. The government program is extended to extended long - term loans to young families and to single young citizens for construction, reconstruction, and housing. Sadly, the year 2013 was not an exception. Yes, the State Youth Housing Programme 2013-2017 provided funding for programmes in 2013 amounting to 593 million dollars, instead of allocating funds to Ukraine’s government budget of only 80 million. So far, this is the only program of government-owned long - term lending for young people to build a home that is truly accessible to a young family. Thus, in the State Budget for 2014, the funding of the State Long Term Loan Scheme for Young Names and Lonely Young Citizens has been increased by the amount of expenditure not included in the 2013 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u50	Zuravsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u51	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In 1992 the city of Radomisli, the city of Žitomir, began building a clinic for 300 visits for a change. At present, the treatment of patients is in extremely poor working conditions for doctors and medical personnel and does not provide qualified and advisory medical care for the population. After the Chernobyl disaster, nearly 2,000 people from the People’s Region, from the area of mandatory and recommended evictions, were relocated to the area. A third of the region’s population is made up of pensioners and veterans who need special medical care, adequate conditions for diagnosis, and treatment. Construction and construction work has already been done by 70 percent. In 2013, this year, 3.5 million dollars were allocated for construction. At present, there are funds at the expense of the State Treasury Office in the Radomisl district of the Žitomir region, but there is no proof of payment. The construction of the clinic is led by Elitbud-1. The cost of building and installation work for the past year is almost 3 million dollars. I ask Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine to help us in this, difficult, work and to prove the construction of a clinic in the city of Radomisl of Žitomirsk district until the end. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. I'm sure they'll hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u52	National MP Valentin Matviev, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u53	Please give the floor to the colleague Gubar Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u54	The word is given to the National Deputy Victor Gubaru, a faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u55	Victor Hubbar, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Chernigovishte. Dear Chairman! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! In my speech, I want to break the problem of securing the population of the Chernigiv region with compressed gas. By the way, I must point out that this problem is relevant not only to the Chernigev region but also to the Poltava, Sumska and other areas of Ukraine. This issue was raised at a meeting of the village of Kozylovka Krukovsky, in Chernigovishte. This population item is not gassed, as is much of the area’s village. It's close. More than 500 living courtyards, with about a thousand inhabitants. During the 9 months of the current year, according to a reply to my parliamentary address by the Montenegrin District Administration, only 300 bubbles of compressed gas were imported into Kozilivka. You don’t have to be a great expert to figure out that not every family has been lucky enough to get at least one gas balloon, considering that consumption of the balloon is only one or a maximum of two months. People are desperate because they are placed in conditions where they are forced to prepare for themselves and their family food, food on fire, as in the early days. Local authorities are distributing hand - to - hand consumption limits for 2013 have been reduced by 25 percent compared to the previous year. In addition, the area is constantly undersupplying the requested amount of cremated gas for the population. A strange situation is that areas where gas is extracted cannot provide at least a minimum population requirement. Because all wells are privatized and so - called oil and gas magnets have no intention of worrying about the fate of ordinary workers. Their main goal is to earn profits, because the cost of thousands of cubic metres of gas, according to the Government Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Stavitsky, is about 300 dollars, and they sell it to a population of 1,300 dollars per thousand cubic metres. Today, statements are being made from the mouth of authorities that Ukraine will be a natural gas exporter in the near future. It is clear from these statements that the authorities will continue to exist. will not think about the fate of our citizens, but will only think about enriching the oligarchs. That's why I'm going to the government, and I'm going to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Edward Anatolyyyovich Stavitsky, and I'm going to take immediate measures to ensure that the supply of compressed gas is increased to meet the needs of the population in the Chernig region. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u56	National Deputy Oksana Kaletnik, Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u57	Oksana Kaletnik, 16th Major Electoral District, KPU faction. Dear MPs, your Honourable Chairman, dear Ukrainians! I want to draw your attention to the problem that has been created around the state registers, namely, the illegal use of personal data by our citizens, who are in the hands of private companies, private entities. Imagine that today you can enter the system at the expense of the outside entrance and pressure the state to receive illegal funds from private companies. We can go into this system and make it clear to the electorate, the situation where the property was yours, and tomorrow it's mine. Today's system's up. And for the time being, the Ministry of Justice, the law enforcement agencies are taking steps to ensure the proper functioning of state registers. I would like to believe that these actions Mrs. Lukas is doing just to make the rest of the state registers and rights copyrighted to state registers belong to the state. And it's not going to be a redefinition of the influence on private companies that are once again receiving the Ministry of Justice, which has been appointed as a result of the past, taking it away from the past departmental leadership. But you can't stop at that. It was the private companies that were in the epicenter of the scandal that planned to engage in the creation of software and further service of the so - called single electronic platform for all government authorities. It's being formed under the control of Mr. Seminomist and contractors, and there's Artmeister and Three Ts again. It was these companies that were, let's say, in the epicenter of this scandal. So we allow private companies to use access to government documents, creating essentially a parallel government. Imagine that access to the property rights of all citizens, the electronic signature of all civil servants in the country, as well as the database of all government structures will be in one place and in one hand with remote access, allowing any document to be modified as it pleases. It's really just a horror and it's a really parallel government. In this way, blackmail can be done on any person. The issue of registering was the subject of repeated appeals by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of combating organized crime and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u59	and the facts of the violation were, indeed, confirmed by the Court of Auditors. In just 3 years, $1 billion was paid to private companies. Today I propose to all concerned deputies to join this issue, to create a temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u60	National Deputy Ilik, Fatherland faction, conveys the word to the National MP, Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, voters! I also want to inform. Just a few minutes ago, the leader of the political power of Fatherland, Arsenius Yatzenuk, spoke. I want to add a few more things, which, in my view, is very important to know. Two hours of negotiations were concluded in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, Mr. Ribak, with representatives of the opposition factions and representatives of the mission, President Cox and President Kwasniewski. Unfortunately, these negotiations did not come to an understanding. We understand that the official statement on the part of the party of power on European integration is unfortunately not reinforced by the movements on their part. In this direction, the opposition has always shown its desire for Euro-integration to be signed. It's all worked out. Compromises were always sought. And in this direction, we've shown compromises over and over again. With regard to the Elections Act relating to the Public Prosecutor's Act. These bills were also filed by the opposition forces. They have been rejected, despite the fact that these bills have been left by the majority today, we understand very much the responsibility, and understanding that the Association Agreement needs to be signed, despite the fact that we have a lot of comments on these bills, we have agreed to support these bills. That's a big compromise. We're doing everything we can to get the deal signed. However, as European integration officials have repeatedly stated, we need not only to adopt Euro-Integration Bills but also to resolve the issue of political prisoners, to resolve the issue of Yulia Timoshenko. In this direction, a working group was set up to draft a bill, and this was not followed. There is no progress in negotiations. Mr. Vasiliev, who was invited by the factions and representatives of the Cox-Kwasnev mission, said we needed a week. Unfortunately, in a week we can talk about history, not about Ukraine’s future. And so, once again, we want to summon. We're going to compromise, we're going forward, we're giving the opportunity and we're confident that the strike faction, I'm also sure that the opposition forces are going to vote for those bills in the first reading today -- the election law and the prosecutor's office -- because they are essential for signing the agreement. And we're talking to the Party representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u63	We're going to the majority party, to the Party of Regions to strengthen our loud statements about Euro-integration: to meet on Tuesday to vote on all three laws: elections, prosecution and to vote on the law concerning Yulia Timoshenko, because on Wednesday there will be a decision by the European Union concerning Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations. And we must all make not only statements, but our actions to strengthen Ukraine's movement into the European Union. Because we are confident that Ukraine is Europe, and we must all prove it to the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u64	People’s MP Martovicki, faction of the Party of the Regions, gives his word to the People’s Deputy Inni Godoslovak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament! Very responsible today, again we have very responsible days. And I would even compare what is happening today to what was before Ukraine's independence. Unfortunately, our old fault is that as many leaders as in Ukraine, so many hetmans, have done bad things at their own stage. And today we need to take a very responsible approach to those steps that are already understood in all factions. And the scheme that we now agree on will give us the opportunity to sign a summit in Vilnius, regardless of opposition or understanding among some politicians. First and foremost. If we had listened to the formula that we proposed: – one bill signed jointly by three leaders of opposition factions – you and I would have a signed bill on treatment abroad today. But if this hasn't been done before today, we suggest that we don't get the problem again, today we vote, as agreed, on the Law on Public Prosecutions and on Elections in the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you want the result, do not shout, but at least find understanding and respect for people! [[B in m in s a l in]] I will now ask our faction to give up the decision you have made if you treat your colleagues that way! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear press and honourable citizens, now the opposition is once again demonstrating that it is she who does not want the liberation of Timoshenko, because we offer you concrete ways and you do not. I ask you to listen to the faction leaders: in order for us to finally have a bill on treatment of convicted persons abroad, it is urgent that, if there is doubt in the work of the working group on the committee, a parliamentary working group should be put in place urgently to finalize a bill that will be signed by the leaders of all factions, and Parliament will vote for it. Otherwise, we will find the guilty again, and the decision will not be taken. I ask you to accept this proposal: to talk to the speaker urgently, to create a working group of parliaments, and we will have a result. You'll see that this is a question that we agreed on today, literally, a few minutes ago. Please move in this direction if you really do not want to bury Ukraine again under personal ambition. We need the European community, this is the only right way to move Ukraine, but we need to hide our ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u66	The People's Deputy Xenius Lapina, a faction of Fatherland, gives his word to Oleg Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u67	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. So, you know, I'm going to take the advice of the previous speaker and hide my ambitions and probably the ambition of the whole faction. And I'm not going to deny the nonsense she was talking about in this rostrum, because we're on the verge of a historic event right now. I don't want to annoy the Party of Regions, I think they'll be rewarded for what they're doing. But I want to call them to just one – immediately return your deputies to the session room! Turn around and turn around, manifest such unity as you have displayed. When they signed that sad statement to the Polish Fair on the Volin event. It is good that our colleagues in Poland did not react to this provocation or react. But then you immediately and quickly did and actually set Ukraine up before Europe. Now, redeem this sin -- come back here now and bring Ukraine closer to the European Society. And now it's boring, but it's about the government budget. All of us colleagues, we know, I just have to say this, regardless of what's happening here. We all know that the state budget is not being implemented, that the social payments are frozen, that the government has only recently given two billion dollars to close the debt to the budgeters by at least mid-November, by the end, perhaps November. As we live in December, no one knows. There is no answer from the government. Today, they must have taken advantage of today’s mission and have not come to the session hall today, nor have they received from the opposition to the perplexing questions that we have to ask them under the state budget. In fact, the government’s inaction is responsible for all the local budgets. In order to buy a packet of paper, the village head must be folded with the secretary, for the payment in the State Treasury has been in place for months. The government does not provide urgent answers to the questions even the President asked him, for on September 3 on this rostrum Janukovic has commissioned the government to make urgent changes to the State budget, to submit the 2014 draft budget immediately. There are no changes, no budget projects. Ukraine is in financial stagnation. And this state can only save one thing: the government of Yanukovich and Azarov – in resignation, you "give" European integration!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer. There is a proposal, as agreed on by the Conciliation Council. We're going to interrupt the various shows now. Let's give the faction leaders a word. One minute at a time, huh? As agreed, two minutes each faction. Let's look at the two laws, and then at the Miscellaneous, we've got 14 minutes left, let's go to the Miscellaneous. Do we have a deal? I beg you, two minutes, stands the leader of the Freedom faction Oleg Tuggnibok. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u69	Dear voters, the truth is that, in fact, in Parliament today, the fate of the Ukrainian state can be decided. All of these negotiations, which were now at the head of the Ukrainian Parliament, ended with the opposition fully demonstrating its desire to resolve this issue and ready to make maximum compromises. In the morning, we offered me a very good way out of the situation: a change to the Criminal Code (art. 84) actually in a few sentences: any prisoner can get treatment abroad in the event of a court decision. First. This problem will solve the issue of Tymoshenko. Although for Fatherland, it's a risk, because we don't know what might be the decision of the court later on Timoshenko. The other one. This can be a very serious safeguard against other prisoners who may abuse this standard. We all understand that the question of Timoshenko is not on the legal side today, and that is a political issue. It is very positive that during our talks with the majority, European chiefs Cox and Kwasniewski were present. And they could see and feel for themselves who is right and who is wrong, who is wicked, and who is not wicked. Despite the fact that the bill on the prosecution and the election are extremely unacceptable in these editorials for the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, in order to resolve the positive issue in Vilnius today, we will vote for them in the first reading even without discussion, and we hope that the Party of Regions will follow through on Tuesday or Wednesday, we will meet here for the next session, we will resolve the issue of Timoshenko, and this will open the door to Vilnius. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u70	Please, the Fatherland faction, the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! There have been two years of negotiations in the Head of the Supreme Council, and there have been no compromises that the opposition would not have agreed to in order to ensure real European integration, in order to adopt all European laws and put an end to the repression in Ukraine by releasing the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko. We have seen that unfortunately, the Party of Regions is not ready to address this issue. And we see that instead of putting an end to political repression, there are new absurd accusations against Julia Timoshenko. Aggression against opposition deputies and their relatives. But, dear fellows, we will fight for victory. By the way, I listened very carefully to Mrs. And I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. I understand that she spoke at the hands of the Party of Regions, not of herself. The Party of Regions has now proposed to create a working group by Parliament. The opposition supports this. And I now ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote the creation of the working group that Mrs. Bogoslovska was talking about, as leaders of the four factions (because the Communists are not going to go to Europe, they have other routes) and the leaders of the professional legal committees. I am convinced that such a group will make both a political and a juridical balanced decision. And we will be able to vote with you on Tuesday as a basis and as a whole all three laws that the European Union insists on. I'm very much asking a colleague from the Party of Regions, let's stop cheating when we have a goal: Europe, let's move in this direction, let's work as our European colleagues ask. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u72	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u73	And stop the political repression in the country and the nonsense that happens in the economy, in the social sphere, etc. We are ready to secure Ukraine’s European path. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u74	Thank you. From the strike faction, who's speaking? Vitaly Klitschko Faction Manager. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u75	I'm talking to the majority, the question to each of you. You want to live in a European country, you want to live where there are normal living standards, where every person has the right to work, where there is a chance of getting health care, a normal education? We are confident that a very important and historic opportunity that we do not want to lose depends on us. And that's why we have our last move on Tuesday. We made a lot of compromises, we went to meet to make and support all the Euro-integration laws that didn't always suit the interests and were taken into account by the amendments to the opposition. We supported all these steps. And we're also going to the majority party, please do everything you can to make sure that the three key issues are resolved. And we hope that the key issue that Europe has insisted on is the European Union's release of Yulia Timoshenko. Now we're not talking about layoffs anymore, we're talking about a bill that will allow you to heal, just heal. Much depends on this decision. And you and I need to take all the steps forward so that we can meet in the Supreme Council Hall on Tuesday at the most and vote on the draft laws relating to the elections that apply to the prosecution's office and to Julia Timoshenko. I hope that each of you understands the responsibility and will do everything possible to have the Association Agreement signed in Vilnius with Ukraine. So that every Ukrainian could live in a normal European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u76	Who's speaking from the faction of the Ukrainian Company? The leader of the faction Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u77	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. By opening the gate to Vilnius, they close the door to the future for Ukraine. And that's understandable. This should happen at the will of the Ukrainian people, not what's happening right now in this corner in the Supreme Council. I was at this very meeting with the Cox-Kwasnevsky mission, and once again, I want to tell the Ukrainians what was going on there and what was going on. But once again, I would like to point out that the faction of the Company has consistently insisted that we hold a referendum in Ukraine and let the people of Ukraine respond to what fate he chooses and whether he is capable and willing today to endure the abuse that will take place in the near future. What does Cox and Kwasniewski’s mission require of Ukraine? On the one hand, let go of one oligarch. What about 45 million? And for 45 million they're offering to raise the price of gas and electricity, to cut social spending for just this 45 million, to let go. And that means that there's going to be inflation and price rises. This is a continuation of pension reform and medical reform. They do not take into account that we do not pay our wages. I asked Kwasniewski today, and why doesn't Europe say that we have the debt of a billion wages? That we don't meet the requirements of the law on the support of the Chernobyl, the Afghans, the children of war. The fact that we have a pension reform against which the people of Ukraine are speaking continues. Medical reform destroys the principles of aid. Next. They're not going to support the Company's idea of introducing a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. They give us same-sex marriages, they impose gay parades, and so on. This is what they demand! That's why the Company faction says we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u78	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u79	Therefore, the faction of the Company claims that we are participating in this Sabbath, which was committed by the authorities and opposition, the faction of the Company will not accept!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u80	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, I would ask for this part of the hall, which often screams. I never scream when you talk, listen to what the representative of the Party of the Regions will say. We have the impression that the leaders of the opposition are not keenly interested in the opposition’s leaders so that Julia Timoshenko can go abroad for treatment. Thus, legally illiterate laws on the exemption from the punishment of Timoshenko are being produced with full awareness so that they cannot be accepted. A meeting of the Legislature Committee, which lasted about five hours, was eloquent. The three queens are very afraid of the former prime minister of Ukraine, clearly realizing that when she finds herself free, they have nothing in the presidential race. There's no question about the opposition. There are many highly qualified lawyers. If they wanted to, they could have already provided quality projects for the treatment of the "Paternity" leader outside the country. However, no one does. Make suggestions, work, and do something specific so that your words, your esteemed colleagues, do not diverge, and Julia Volodymyrna is out for treatment. We suggest you use the faction of the Party of the Regions. Parliament should vote in favour of creating a working group on a proportional basis from all factions to write a legal perfect law that would allow Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko to treat abroad. Our faction will support a bill that fits the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u83	Our faction supports such a bill that will correspond to the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the adoption of the laws as agreed. You've already made suggestions. A draft law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is under consideration. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that we would give the floor to the chairman of the committee. He will report, and without discussion we will put to the vote laws. Give me a minute, Turkin, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u85	Vladimir Vasilovich, when we really want to move forward, we vote for the first reading of these laws. But let's vote again on the creation of a working group that the Party of Regions is talking about. And I've made you a specific proposal that I propose to vote on right now. The task force includes the leaders of the Freedom factions, the Strike, the Fatherland, the Party of Regions, as well as the heads of four professional committees dealing with legal issues. This is the case: Cosmackin, Chumak, Pisarenko, and Kiwalov. This is a normal working group that can provide both a legal solution and a political solution. I propose, and I'm sure the opposition will support, now vote on this proposal and not take the time. And there'll be a bill on Monday.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u86	The distinguished national deputies, in the speech of Bogoslovak, Žuravsky, Turkey’s speaker, have come up with proposals to create a working group or a temporary special commission to prepare and finalize draft laws on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons condemned to be deprived of their liberty. Let's create such a work commission. But there are two suggestions. I'll put two proposals to the vote. One proposal is to create it on a proportional basis, and the second proposal is Turkey. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am asking Jeremiah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u87	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, we would ask non-fractional members to be included in the working group as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u88	And include from the non-fractional national MP. So, listen up! I'll put it to a vote. Attention! There are two different suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable National MPs. Go, don't scream. What are you yelling at? After a minute, the factions. Please. It's a strike. Come on, sit down. I can hear you screaming. Who are you, Kowalczuk? Wait a minute. Go on. And in a minute, from all the factions and non-fractionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Vladimir Vasilovich, I am now addressing you personally. It's up to you how much quality we can work on these bills. That's why I'm making, I'm saying, our position, the position of the political party hit and the Vitalia Klicka faction, that we're going to vote in favour of creating a working group only if you announce before this that Tuesday's next meeting of the Supreme Council will be held, where three issues will be considered and voted: Bill on the Liberation of Yulia Timoshenko or the Mechanism for the Definition of Her Treatment, the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Electoral Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u90	I beg of you, Freedom Union, one minute. National MP. Who? Pull side, Oleg Tuggnibok, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I appeal to each and every one of you now in this room. In fact, the fate of Ukraine is being decided today, and the real responsibility lies with us for tomorrow's day of the Ukrainian state. What the Communists are doing there, don't listen is all lies and lies. By the way, I don't want to be Kwasniewski's lawyer, but he gave a very clear answer to the allegations that we just heard from the head of the Communist faction. That's why, Vladimir Vasilovich, we're asking the questions of the commission, we're not denying it. You sound Tuesday or Wednesday -- we don't know when the Party of Regions is ready to come here, in the hall, and vote on the issue of Timoshenko -- and we vote on the prosecution and the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u92	The Fatherland faction. Who? Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u93	Despite the fact that the working group has already been formed, the committee is headed by a representative of the Party of the Regions, but it has never met, we are ready to vote in Parliament for the creation of a working group of four factions, four representatives, and more specifically, committee leaders, one non-fractional (let the non-fractional determine who it is) and that this working group: firstly, conduct its meetings publicly; secondly, that the working group should submit a bill on Monday; thirdly, if you are not ready to convene an interlocutory meeting on Tuesday, we can, in accordance with the Rules on the basis of our concern, convene this meeting in the middle of the morning, if you find it difficult to read one paragraph of the law. So, Mr. Head, we're ready to vote for the task force: four faction leaders, four committee leaders, one non-fractional representative. And let the working group meet publicly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u94	Who hasn't spoken yet? The Communist Party faction doesn't insist? Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Honorable colleagues, and more precisely, honourable voters, for it is in vain to approach colleagues in this room at times! We will reaffirm the position expressed by the leader of our party and faction. The Communist Party thinks of 45 million people in Ukraine, not of one person who is surrounded by all other gehefts. The other one. Vladimir Vasilovich, if they want to address the issues agreed upon at the Conciliation Council, each of these issues needs to be included in the agenda. Third. Listen to what they're offering from the task force or whatever they call it. 9 people, these 9 people will have 6 in 3 in favor of the so-called opposition. I mean, it's clear what the decision is, and what they're going to come up with in the session room, and what the session room is going to be like. We need to support the committee's proposal, not create it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u96	Please, the faction of the regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Our proposal is to create a commission on a proportional basis. But I would like to point out that if this decision isn't voted out, then the committee on the law enforcement committee will work, which was created as a result of almost a five-hour discussion on our committee. And in accordance with the Supreme Council Committees Act, this commission was voted by the total majority of the members of this committee, members of this committee, professional lawyers. And by this decision, the head of the commission was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennady Vasiliev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote on the agenda for the creation of a working group to prepare and finalize draft legislation on the possibility of treatment abroad for persons condemned to be deprived of their liberty. People's deputies, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[12:53:37]] For 283 May I have your attention, please? For -283, versus -0, 0 was held, 0 was not voted - 110. Decision taken. The factions. We've read it. Now there are two options for creating a working group. I beg your attention, I'll put it to a vote. Create a temporary working group to prepare and finalize legislation on treatment opportunities abroad for people sentenced to be deprived of their liberty on a proportionate basis. And for faction leaders and nonfractionals, make immediate proposals for the quantification and personal composition of a temporary special commission. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[12:55:01]] For 289 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 104. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 110, Parenthood 90, Vitaly Klicka Hit 37, Freedom 31, Company 0, non-fractional 21. The bill (registration number 3541 and 3541-1) "For the Prosecutor's Office" is under consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich. And as we agreed, after the report, I'm putting the vote to the vote as a basis for the first reading. Please. Two minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u99	Two minutes is not enough, I'm not going to tell you about the prosecutor's office that you put in today, which we agreed to meet together with the Cox-Kwasnevsky mission. I believe that the opposition is doing everything today to ensure that the EU Agreement is signed. But, honourable colleagues, representatives of the media have seen very well how on the committee, which I am leading, as my colleague rightly said, is the total, total advantage of those who today are in power, those who today have a bearing on the faction of the Party of the Regions — nine national deputies. All the legislative decisions that have been submitted today to the Committee on the Treatment of Yulia Tymoshenko, regarding the cessation of selective justice, have been voted by this total majority in two people. That is, nine members of the People’s Party of the Region and six members of the opposition, plus one nonfractional Mr. So, dear colleagues, I am personally, as chairman of the committee, very grateful to Mrs. Labunsky for her being under the pressure of those people who worked at night and day, in order for her to call back, she did not do so. And we're very grateful to her because she's just the person who's hurting for Ukraine. [[Applause]] Moreover, I would like to say that those national MPs, the members of the committee who represent the opposition today, are Mr. Sass, the People's Deputy Dubovy, the People's Deputy Andry Mishchenko, the People's Deputy King, the People's Deputy Palamarczuk plus Zdunowski -- they did not vote in favour of selective justice, they did not vote in favour of the liberation of Timoshenko, they voted in favour of the future of Ukraine. And thank them for that. That's two. And the third. Dear colleagues, you're talking about a group. I'll tell you what this group was made of. The group was created by a total majority because we, the opposition representatives, did not vote, we abstained. But what the majority did was vote in favour of the decision to return the drafters to work. In fact, there is nothing on the committee today, because if the Council decides what the committee voted on, we have nothing to work with, even this group headed by the distinguished Mr. Vasiliev. It is therefore necessary for the Supreme Council to decide on the sending of these bills for re-reading. And only then will the bills by Mishchenka, Labunsky and everyone else be on the committee, and they will be. We'll work with them. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. Today the formation of this group is a propaganda, it's a delaying Ukraine with this situation with the signing of the agreement in a dead end. And thank you so much for all the journalists, there were a lot of them, five hours watching this situation, this farce, this procedure that we had on the committee. And to all the provocateurs and renegades, even among the opposition factions, I want to say that the committee is not the Cosmacks' committee, but the committee is made up of members. the deputies of all factions, and most of them make up a total party of regions. With regard to a bill that has been discussed so much today and that has just been agreed upon on the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, 3541, 3541-1, Procuratorial Laws, they've been talked about for a long time, they've been known by every national MP. Indeed, there is a presidential bill, there is a bill of opposition. I want to say that these bills, they have one single basis, the only basic law that was made at the time on the basis of all the documents, all the bills that the committee had drafted. The committee didn't sit down, hand in hand, as some would like to tell us, the committee was working, the committee was constantly holding round tables, scientific and practical conferences, talking to foreign representatives, but it happened that today the Presidential Bill came to the Venice Commission earlier than the one that was there at the time and also got a positive conclusion. But in submission to the decision today, to the political decision of all the leaders of the opposition factions, as well as all the factions of the Party of the Regions, which was adopted at the Conciliation Council with the participation of representatives of the European mission of Mr. Cox and Kwasniewski, where I was also present, I believe that I should vote today, my fellow honourable colleagues, I appeal to my fellow opposition, first reading this bill. Closing our eyes, no matter what it is, really, the questions that we are all concerned with today and which we are painfully referring to are the question and general oversight, and the question of the prosecutor's incomprehensible disciplinary responsibilities. But I don't want to talk about it because the decision is made, that's all. We are opening today, we are taking the first step towards Ukraine signing the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u100	Thank you. People's deputies please sit down. I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Bills (3541 and 3541-1). People's deputies are requested to vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:02:04]] For 287 Against 0, holding back - 0, not voting - 106. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party – 111, Parenthood – 87, Vitalia Klicka – 37, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. I'm asking for your attention! I'm betting on a bill of the Law (No. 3541) on the Public Prosecutor's Office for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:02:55]] For-286 Against - 0, held - 0 did not vote - 107. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party – 111, Parenthood – 86, Vitalia Klicka – 35, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration number 3396, 3396-1) on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving electoral legislation is under consideration. There is a suggestion to include these laws in the order of the day. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:04:06]] For 285 Against – 0, held – 0 did not vote – 110. The decision was taken. The factions. Decision taken. I'd like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the committee? Report without discussion. Report from the committee, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Rybak, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 6 November 2013, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the improvement of electoral legislation (registration number 3396) of 6 November 2013, completed by the national deputies of Ukraine: Alexander Ephraim, Volodymyr Olenik and Dmitr Špenov; and the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Improvement of the Law on the Conduct of Elections (registration number 3396-1) of 28 October 2013, submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine: Vitaly Klick, Natalia of the Law on the Reformation of the Peoples of the Law (registration number 3396-1) of the People's Parliament. In considering the bills, members of the committee noted that in their preparation, the authors had taken into account the findings and recommendations of the mission for monitoring the election of Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012 of the OSCE and other missions of official observers from foreign states and international organisations, as well as the joint conclusion of the Venice Commission and the OSCE from 14-15 June to the draft amendments to the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Central Election Commission and the re-elections in Ukraine and the joint conclusions of the Venice Commission on 12-13 October 2013. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the need to improve electoral legislation and bring it into line with European standards in the field of electoral law. The Chief Executive considers that, as a result of the first reading, both bills can be accepted as a basis and proposes to give priority to Bill 3396, which may include the correct position of the alternative project in the second reading. Most of the votes were adopted by the committee at its meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u103	To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving legislation on the conduct of elections with registration number 3396 to be adopted as a basis. Recommend an alternative to this. The bill with registration number 3396-1 should be rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want to do? Turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u105	Vladimir Vasilovich, we forgot to take a procedural decision with you under the Procuratorial Act and under the law that will now be approved in the first reading on the proceduread hoc, namely: a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading of the relevant bills. Why should these bills be ready by Tuesday, so that the committees and deputies do not leave on vacation, but by Tuesday two bills will be prepared in a second reading and in general. So I would ask that this decision be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u106	I'm betting on the vote, I'm asking for your attention, the draft Act (No. 3396) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legislation on elections for adoption as a basis and the Committee's summary procedure to prepare for the second reading. Short-term. [[B in m in s a l in]] And shorten the deadlines for preparing the law for second reading twice. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:09:35]] For 281 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 109. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. I'm putting to the vote the bill (3541), which we've adopted with you as a basis, to cut the deadline for preparing this law for the second reading twice. Please vote. Please vote, come on. Let's vote, let's hear it. [[13:10:27]] For 287 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 107. Decision taken. Please, according to factions: Region Party 110, Parenthood 88, Vitalia Klicka, 36, Freedom 31, Company 0, non-fractional 22. We're continuing our consideration of the speeches by the members of the "Victory."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is unable to make a decision by Tuesday, because the 101 article of the Rules clearly states that the proceduread-hoc reduces the preparation deadlines by no more than half as much as it allows to be reduced by more than half. Article 101 of the Rules. Please read. We're moving on to the Vizne. People's Deputy Roadside, faction of the Party of the Regions. There is no national MP. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy of the Road, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u108	33 constituency, Roadside, Dniproperty. May I have the floor to John Popescu?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u109	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Popescu, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u110	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, Ukrainian legislation, in particular articles 9 and 14 of the National Minorities Act in Ukraine, provides for international obligations, such as Article 15 of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, to ensure that national minorities are ineffectively involved in public affairs, including by creating appropriate conditions for their representation in the country’s legislative body. Such legislative conditions, at least in places where national minorities live compactly, were created by the provisions of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies, which were followed by elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1998. In the following laws governing elections to the Supreme Council, these rules were deleted. Such a state of affairs is the loss of national minorities acquired under the law, which violates the requirements of part three of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights from being narrowed when adopting new laws or amending existing laws. The need to solve this problem is also highlighted in paragraph 15. 3 Resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (1862). In order to improve pluralism and encourage national minorities to participate in public life, the Assembly recommends that the Central Electoral Commission include in the same constituency of a group of national minorities that form a compact residence in certain areas in order to improve pluralism and encourage national minorities to participate in public life. With a view to restoring the rights of Ukrainian national minorities, implementing the requirements of legislation and ensuring the implementation of international legal obligations on behalf of Ukraine's indigenous national minorities, we propose that, when amending the current Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies, the compactness of national minorities should be taken into account in the establishment of one-mandom constituencies. To predict that in a place where individual national minorities live compactly, they should not go beyond one constituency. Dear colleagues, today's amendment to the legislation, I mean the bill of our colleague Alexander Efremov, this is foreshadowed. A party of regions voted for it. And I suggest that when we discuss the second reading, we do not allow any changes or suggestions to be made to this article. On behalf of Ukraine’s national minorities, we insist, and we hope so. And in the end, I want to take advantage of what, when we speak from this rostrum, we have the right to speak in any language. I will continue to speak Romanian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u111	Thank you. The People's Deputy Kugel gives his word to the People's Deputy Kunicin, a faction of Vitalia Klicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that although there are very few deputies left in this room that happened here yesterday when Law 2129a was passed on behalf of the family of the dead in Afghanistan, when the biggest faction of the Party of the Regions was not adopted in the Supreme Council. And I think it's on the conscience of the Party of Regions and Power that the law has not been passed. But I think that's true of other problems. Today, the authorities are doing everything they can to crush the most powerful and powerful veteran organization in Ukraine, the Afghan Veterans' Association of Ukraine, because it's 120,000 people who've been through the war. Today, in the Chernobyl region, in Suma, in Poltava, in Odessa and in Crimea, under the authority vested in the reporting election conferences, the authorities intervene in the activities of the organizations and try to break Afghans all over Ukraine because they fear us. On October 26, Crimea hosted an organization’s election conference, which I have been leading for 10 years. At the direction of the Council of Ministers of Mohilov, the heads of administration, city mayors, allegedly brought together conference delegates, held, along with law enforcement authorities, what seemed to be a conference, and I was reelected. We held a legitimate conference at which 100 percent of the delegates elected me head of the Afghan Veterans' Association, which is 10,000 Afghans in Crimea and Sevastopol. However, according to Prime Minister Crimea’s commission, the Chief Justice Office has registered an illegal organization. Unfortunately, the person who betrayed the interests of the Afghan movement, General Redfoot, took part in this. At our conference, we expressed our mistrust to this general and asked the Attorney General to intervene. But the paradox is that the Attorney General has commissioned the prosecutor of Crimea, and the prosecutor of Crimea, the government of Crimea, to understand each other. I also received a letter from the Crimea government saying that I would be attracted to the libel of this situation. I want to say one thing that if, Igor Grigorovovich, the Council does not return to the issue of the Family of the Dead, if the pressure on the Afghans does not stop, we have decided that we will soon come to Parliament, and no Berkut, no Jaguar, no internal forces will remove us from here. Boo is behind us, the people and behind us, the power.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u113	National Deputy Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Transfers the right to speak to Olga Bority.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u114	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Colleagues! Under Ukraine’s laws and regulations, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has arranged for free and extended medical leave under medical prescriptions in case of outpatient treatment of individual population groups and under certain categories of illness. Costs associated with the cost of medical supplies are charged to health authorities at a place where they are actually released. However, because of the extremely inadequate financing of the medical sector, the laws of Ukraine and government regulations are not being implemented. Members of the Company’s faction have received many petitions from citizens from all areas on the grounds that the local executive authorities have given oral instructions to the hospital authorities not to write prescriptions for the medicines of the disabled who are entitled to it, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Not enough, at citizens’ personal receptions, executive heads cynically claim that they have not written and will not write, for there is no cost. In order to buy drugs, look for sponsors. This is a source of resentment for people with disabilities, poor pensions, social assistance, and a failure to make ends meet. Particularly acute is this problem for families with disabled children, for whom daily medication is a condition of life. And such drugs at their cost are not available to them. As a result, many people simply die. In view of the above, the faction of the Company of Ukraine requires that the minister of health be given an assignment to study and solve this acute problem. One form of solution is to provide local budgets for targeted subsidies and to provide credit categories with free and affordable drugs. And I ask that this statement be considered an official parliamentary request to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health for the non-compliance of executive authorities and officials of health institutions with Ukrainian legislation on the provision of benefits for citizens with free and affordable drugs. And one more question, I would like to draw your attention to you today: to those who did yesterday. It's easy to breathe without communists last night, so I want to say that before you die, as people say, you don't breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u115	National Deputy Vasil Samoylenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u116	Basil Samylenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Zitomirščina. Honorable MPs, whatever the scope of life we take, are everywhere today inconsequential and chaotic: raiders are enthralled in businesses, farmers are destroyed, bandits are redistributed property, schools are closed, hospitals are closed, corruption is flourishing. And this whole vachanalia, so-called "democracy," has already been turned into self-government organs, local councils. All of this we see, and we've been able to convince ourselves at the work of the Ternopil district, Kyiv and many other city, village and rural councils that work at best, become "procurement," working for their own discretion. This is also the fate of the Novoguywin Village Council of the Žitomir district, the district of Zitomir, which has been idle for almost three years. There is a fierce struggle between the village head and a group of deputies whose desire is to replace their heads and take power in their own hands. Of course, they do all this not of their own free will, but under the "wise" leadership of such a local prince, the director of the bronze factory, the deputy of the fraud. By the method of whipping and showering, it affects MPs, heads of local organizations and institutions, does everything possible to get rid of the head – a communist village councillor who is disagreeable, does not allow the land to be embalmed, does other black things. The very earth here is a stumbling block. Because the border is right next to the district center of Zitomir. It has come to the point that the deputies themselves, without heads and secretary, hold sessions, and make illegal decisions. In the last year alone, 37 decisions have been made here, all of which have been annulled by the prosecution and the courts. Failure by the deputies to perform their duties, blocking the work of the village council makes it impossible for them to influence, pay their salaries on time to school workers, other institutions, purchase food, pay for utilities, prepare for winter housing, and provide heat and water supplies. All of this has caused an unhealthy moral political environment among the villagers — more than 16,000 people who are engaged in protests. This situation is known both in the area and in the district government, a district council whose leaders do not respond. And it's time to put order in the village council, trim, so-called gray cardinals, because they're the ones who run this place, not the authorities of the state. In view of all these circumstances, the village head appealed to the Supreme Council to accept such counsel as inactive and to appoint the New Guinean Village Council on a stand-by basis. I believe that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine and with the systematic adoption by the village council of decisions in violation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, it is necessary to support the village head and to respond promptly to the Supreme Council on the cessation of the inactivity of the New Guinean Village Council and to hold successive elections. No one is allowed to violate the laws of Ukraine, and there are more, deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u117	The last speaker, the national deputy of Chernjakov, gives his word to Irina Sech, the faction of "Freedom".
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u118	Honorary Society, 5 November, signed the Agreement on the Distribution of Hydrocarbons, which will be mined within the territory of Oleska between the State of Ukraine, Chevron and NADRA Oleska. This act can only be viewed as a brutal disregard for the laws and interests of the Ukrainian people, particularly the communities in which solar gas will be mined. The agreement was signed in a hurry, although each of the terms of the Lviv and Ivano-Frankov District Councils, which they gave in their decisions in agreement with the draft agreement, was not implemented. That is, the decision of these councils has not yet taken effect, and the signing of the covenant is therefore illegal. So the authorities tricked the communities again. Ukrainians are trying to convince themselves that the Agreement on the Distribution of Hydrocarbons to Be mined in the Ole Square will bring enormous economic benefits to the territorial communities and energy independence of the state. But in fact, this agreement establishes a mechanism that allows all arrivals to be controlled and managed manually by private entities. Under the agreement, the State is represented jointly with the NAC "Nadra Oleska" (90 per cent) and the semi-corruption structure of the SOKO "Geosservis" (10 per cent). Every person understands who's behind this business: who's behind it, the family. The agreement itself is not about the energy independence of language, but there are real risks of an energy cable for the state of Ukraine. We were convinced that the government’s share of the contract was between 17 and 40 percent. Instead, Minfin concluded in his expertise that, in fact, the State's share from the time of industrial development would not exceed 13.5 percent for all 50 years. This part is still going to be subtracted from 10 percent for the Geoservices SPC. Considering that an investor has the right to dispose of his share of his own judgment, that is, to realize it to whom he wants and at the price he sets himself. Then who would benefit from this arrangement? The Ministry of Justice concluded on page 15, the Ministry of Finance on page 7. Such a large number of observations, which mainly relate to the State's invulnerability of economic rights, indicate that the agreement is, in fact, far from the interests of the State of Ukraine and in the interests of the criminal group, which unfortunately took power in Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-08-m0.u119	Thank you. The "Variance" issue is closed. Dear colleagues! Let me remind you that people's deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions next week. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 19, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
