ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:04]] There were 376 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Bilovol Alexander Mikolaiovich. Let's say hello to Alexander Mikolaiovich on his birthday, he's in the hall. [[Applause]] Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Association of the Odessa in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional "Odessa" MP was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Kiwalov Sergio Vasilovich. Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the seventh interfractional parliamentary association "For the One District Orthodox Church" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "For the One District Orthodox Church" has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine Medinouc Oleg Vijacheslavovich. Next. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Association of the Vinnicina in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional MP "Vinnicina" was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigori Mihajlovich. Announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies Group of 9 January, reports on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union "Veterans of Afghanistan and Chernobyl for the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Volodymyrovich, was elected leader of this association. Dear colleagues! Information. There was an attack last night on the MP from Vladimir Kurenny's party. As he writes, at 8 p.m., I was attacked by two strangers, beaten, and deafened while driving. I've spoken to Minister Zharchenko Vitali Juryovich right now, and he's keeping this matter under personal control. The police immediately went out there, met with the deputy, and discussed the matter. There'll be more information, I'll inform the deputies of the Supreme Council. And now we don't have the word, now we have the time to make inquiries, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. That's why I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. People's MPs have been asked: Mikoli Katerinczuk to the President of Ukraine for information on the status of implementation of Chapter VIII (on annual reports), IX (on legislative expertise), XII (on the creation of an Internet site) The Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. We need to support that request. That's why I'm voting. Who's in favor of supporting Catherinechuk's request, please vote. [[10:10:40]] For a hundred and Request supported. Katerinczuk's request to the President requires 226 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting you to the vote. Please vote for the request. [[10:11:18]] For 158. 158 votes. The factions. Region Party 6, Parentage Party 70, Vitaly Calla 34, Freedom 36, Company 0, non-fractional 12. The request of Andrew Illenck to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the examination of the facts of the inactivity of the law enforcement authorities regarding the illegal detention of a citizen of Hanna Moskalenko and members of her family, the gross violation of the constitutional rights of the said citizens, the use of appropriate measures of response. No vote required, request will be sent. Mr. Andrija Pavlovski to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the head of the Holding Foundation, on taking urgent action to protect the housing rights of the residents of the apartment building in the Bologna district of Kyiv, on the streets of Žukovsky 8/17. A request is being made. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the Tarutine-Arciz-Tatarbunari main gas pipeline leading to the village of Sarat Odesk. Let's do it. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of quality drinking water for residents of the city of Žitomir. Irina Spirina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration, Dnipropetrovska District Council on the deterioration of the working conditions of the head of the Dnipropetrov region health system reform pilot project. John Stupak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the anti-removal protection of the territory of Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir Litvin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the repayment of creditors' debt to the local budgets of Novograd Wallinsky, Emilczynski, Novograd Wallinsky and the Red Army regions of the Žitomir Region for work carried out in 2012 on the basis of subsidies from the State budget for socio-economic development of the territories. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the use of immediate response measures aimed at eliminating gross violations of the requirements of current legislation, sanitary and building regulations and regulations during the implementation of the project of international technical assistance "Reduction of the biological threat in Ukraine", approved by the perpetrators of the project, which poses a real threat to the biological security of the State and the health of Ukrainian citizens. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the status of implementation of Chapter VIII, IX (on annual reports and on legislative expertise), XII (on the creation of an Internet site) The Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine for the capital and medium-sized repair of roads in the Odessa region. Igor Sabia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the closure of the Stoomi-Holding Hicks Association and the release of its employees. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment of cash compensation to the parents of the injured children who visit groups of short-term stay in preschool schools in the Rhineland region. Mikoli Kucheruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment by the State Treasury authorities of the registered budgetary obligations of the local budgets in the region of the Rhineland. Mikoli Tomenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failing to meet the right temperature standards when keeping rare documents and handwritten monuments in the Central State Archives of Ukrainian Public Associations. Irina Sech to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for implementation in the Lviv region of national projects. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rightfulness of closing the newspaper kiosks network in Krivi Rig. Michael Blawajkow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State Regional Development Fund. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality and justification of the reduction of the purchase price of milk in the Ternopil region, resulting in a decrease in the economic capacity of the rural population. Alexander Zubchevski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lifting of the State Agency's order for Science, Innovation and Information in Ukraine regarding the elimination of the Zaporozhye State Centre for Science, Innovation and Information. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister on the provision of local budget expenditure on salaries. Oleg Tragnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for action aimed at protecting the Zitomir district pedagogical fly. Alexander Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase funding for the 2009-2015 State Target Program "The Young Ukraine". Paul Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for providing official information on the impact of the future village project on the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister on the need to review inter-budget transfers and increase the levelling grant for the city of Ivano-Frankowsk in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013 for the execution of powers delegated by the State. Alexander the Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase funding for the Ukrainian National Academy of Sciences in 2013. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund for the transfer from state ownership to the joint property of the territorial communities of the Orgic Region of the Poltava Property Complex of the Orzitsa-Torf State-owned enterprise Kyiv-Torf, which is virtually ownershipless and destroyed. Groups of National Deputies (Derivna, Apostolic, Boyka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure full funding in 2013 for the salaries of budget workers and the cost of maintaining the budgetary institutions of the Ternopil region, the non-admission to further violations of labour rights of workers, such as the imposition of applications for leave without saving wages, the transfer to part-time work, to part-time work, and the consideration of the involvement of the head of the Ternopil district government administration, Valentin Hoptjan, for the delay in paying the salaries of budget workers in the area to the responsibility established by the current legislation of Ukraine. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent steps taken to implement the Agreement on the Social and Economic Development of the Lviv Region between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Lviv District Council. The Peacekeeper and Alexander Peace to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture for the Prevention of Illegal Seizure and the Destruction of the Monument of Architecture and Urbanization – the building of the Guestyard in Kiev, which has an extremely important historical and cultural significance for the territorial community of the city and for the entire Ukrainian people, attracting the responsibility of those responsible for the illegal removal of the building from the protection of the State through the falsification of documents and the restoration of the status of the architectural monument. Vladimir Ariev to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Finance, for drawing public officials to legal responsibility, whose actions or inaction have led to the opening of banned gambling facilities. Aunts Tears to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for conducting market tests on the sale of propane-butane gas. Andrea Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights of passengers of Aeroworld. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to ensure the timely delivery of the periodic press to the inhabitants of the Velikobogacha region of Poltava. Victoria Babic to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine regarding the renewal of the night train No. 344, which is to connect the city of Suma and the city of Tristanec of Suma Region with the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. Oleg Orotyuk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to take measures to protect the rights of the inhabitants of Poltava. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt from the wages paid by the Public Enterprise "Ukratransnaftof Product" Lubenska Naftobase. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of gas pipelines in the villages of Velika Kozara, Romanovsk district and Karpovtsi, the region of Zitomir district. Victoria Babic to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, regarding the allocation of additional subsidies to the Oxtrian Central District Hospital for timely admission to work and payment of salaries to employees, the deterioration of the health care services of residents of the city of Ohtyrka in connection with the reform of the emergency health care system. Tetjana Sluz to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Culture, on the need to take measures aimed at the allocation of budgetary resources to the National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetske. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the failure to pay the annual cash reward for 2012 to teachers of the Borovian School of Education, II - III degrees of the Fastov region of Kiev. Irina Kupreyčik to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the improper performance by individual officials of health and internal affairs institutions in the area of Lebedin district of Suma, of their official duties regarding the procedure for the processing of the deaths of citizens. Romana Shulag to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to expedite forensic and histological research by the state's medical facilities, according to residents of Mali Lipnyaga, Semimenya District of Poltava, Antonina Bublik, on the death of her daughter. Sergey Kaplina to the Ministry of Health for not allowing the closure of the clinic at Poltavska District Children’s Hospital. Alexander Zubcevski to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports on the appropriateness of the National War exhibition, organized by Vasil Stus' Memorial, a teaching program for education and availability in the Society of Free Documentation for its implementation. Alexia Kayda to the National Bank of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights of a citizen named Victor Skomoroha. John Stupak to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations to prevent emergency situations from occurring in the territory of Dnipropetrovsk. Paul Petrenka to the Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the extent of the loss of local budgets in 2012 due to the lack of budgetary discipline, the establishment and accountability of those responsible. Igora Miroshnicka and Andrija Mohnika to the Head of the Security Service regarding the presence in the national deputies of Ukraine of the VII convocation of citizenship (subordination) of other states. Jurija Orotyuka to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the examination of the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the "Gaz Ukraine 2009" group, which is causing irreparable damage to the State budget of Ukraine. Sergei Vlasenka to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on systematic violations of fundamental human rights, the use of torture in relation to the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, who was taken hostage by the regime. Edward Leonov to the Attorney General, the Authorized President of Children’s Rights, the Minister of Social Policy, the State Service for Emergency Situations on Attempts at Illegal Eviction from the Children’s House of the Family Type in Eupatoria, and the need to eliminate the threat to the life and health of citizens, including minors. Irina Kuprejčik to the Attorney General, Head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service of Ukraine on the disastrous state of industrial security in the coal-based enterprises of the city of Déržinsk Donetské region, for reasons of the de facto inaction of the authorities of the DRC and the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk oblast on the prevention, detection and cessation of violations of labour protection standards and the liability of officials responsible for violations that result in the death of employees. Andrija Mohnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure an objective investigation into the falsification of elections in election district No. 223, Kiev. Mr. Andrija Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of numerous violations of electoral law and the falsification of the results of the election by the District Election Commission of the 1-seat constituency No. 11. Valerija Černjakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the inactivity of the Zakarpatski District Prosecutor's Office regarding the commission of public authorities and the local self-government of service crimes. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating financial abuses and violations in the Plains region for 700 million dollars. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General for the criminal offence against officials of the District State Administration for the illegal alienation and destruction of the forest. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of remedies for illegal decisions made by the head of Krasilov’s district government administration, Peter Arsenyuk. Victor Chumak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a procurator’s response to a violation of effective legislation by the Kyiv City Council on 10 July 2003 to decide whether to rent a land plot near Lake Telbin on Shumsky Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Vladimir Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the regulations of the Statute of the Association of Co-owners of Multiple Houses by the head of the FSB No. 13 government on Boris Gmir Darnicki district of Kiev, Sergey Karbovnim. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of responsibility for the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies during the electoral process in the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 October 2012. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to investigate and bring to justice the criminal responsibility of persons involved in the murder of 19-year-old Tetjana Nesterova from the city of Red Luhansk. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the arbitral management of the Ostróżki Shinore repair plant of the Plain region, the legality of bringing him to bankruptcy and liquidation and the non-payment of the salary owed. Oleg Orotyuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need to take measures to protect the rights of the citizen, Alexander Konishev, who was responsible for the abuse of the office of the procurator of the Poltav region. Groups of National Deputies (Klitzka, Heratchenko, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the annulment of the illegal decision of the Kyiv City Council to transfer to the public shareholders of the "CRRESTAURATION" of the land where the building of the Hotel Court is located under the construction of the trade and office centre. Sergey Vlasenka to the Attorney-General to test the involvement of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Alexander Lavrinović, in the corruption of the contract with the American firm Skaden. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not admitting the raiding of AI-A-A-A-Ukrain Group, the leader of the country's mineral water market. Fedor Negoy to the Attorney General on the illegal activities of the Crime Investigation Department in the area of economic activity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Herson area in the course of criminal proceedings. Victor Zrebník to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the examination of the fact that there has been a breach of official authority by officials of the General Service. Gordine to the head of the Poltava District Administration, the head of the Seminal District State Administration of the Poltava Region, for the removal of obstacles that make it impossible for residents of the village of Zajcinci in the Seminów region of the Poltava region to obtain land ownership free of charge from the land of state property for the conduct of a private farm. Edward Leonov and Yuri Orotyuk, head of the Cherka District State Administration, prosecutor of the Cherkas region, on the need to take urgent steps to restore the rights violated by employees of the Cherkas District newspaper Press Centre. Roman Shugal to the prosecutor of the Poltava region, the head of the Ministry of Interior in Poltava region on the gravity allowed by law enforcement authorities in the investigation of the road transport accident, which resulted in serious injuries to the village of the village of Seminovka Poltava district of Volodymyr Borisenko. All these requests will be sent to the addresses indicated by the national MPs. Honorable National Deputies, the order of today’s plenary meeting, are composed according to the requirements of part five of article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules. In accordance with this article, the issue of the agenda for the High Council's day plenary meeting, which remained pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first at the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. You have a list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today. So let's move on to their consideration. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has no right to reconcile his service with another job. According to paragraph 4 of this section. Article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not require the inclusion in the agenda of the appointment and discharge. I would like to draw your attention, honourable Members, to the fact that the requirements of part two of article 107 of the Rules on the Inability to reconsider matters relate exclusively to rejected bills, namely draft laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which contain a normative position. Yesterday at the plenary, we discussed with you all the questions about the release of Sergio Arbuzov from office as head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The proposal to re-vote this question is therefore made. And as a result of the above, I am voting on the draft Order on the Liberation of Sergei Hennadiovich Arbuzov from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine (Registration No. 1199) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. I'll give you a vote. Please vote. [[10:39:57]] For 237 For 237, against 63, held-4, did not vote 98, only 402. Decision taken. The factions. "The Party of Regions" – 197, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Hit of Vitals" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, the Company – 31, the non-factional – 9. Based on Herashenko's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, in your recent interviews, you have repeatedly said that you would position yourself as the speaker of the entire Supreme Council. We've just seen that you're the speaker of the Party of Regions, because in fact everything you're offered by the Party of Regions, you support it. 170 people's deputies, representing three opposition factions, millions of voters, call on you every day, until the Council system is put in place, to start our work by first announcing all those who have not registered at the registration stand. Your president once told reporters that "he doesn't have time for pleasure," so why are we here supporting those MPs who have time for pleasures that are somewhere in the pasta right now, having fun with skis and voting cards. This is disrespecting yours as a speaker to your president. This is your disrespect for the session room, where there are 170 other deputies who are not members of the Party of the Regions. You just violated our right, the deputies of the Supreme Council, to make these statements that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u3	Thank you. People's MP Tajnibok. Let's invest in a minute. Because we're going to have an hour of 13 to 14 hours, and we're going to be solving all the internal questions. Now let's work by the book. Please, National Deputy Tagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u4	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It's a pity, Mr. Head, that you haven't given the opportunity to arrange for Deputy Heratchenko, let me continue with our colleague's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear National Deputies! As we will begin here in the first session, so we will be working for all five years. And the shame that Ukraine sees today, the whole world, when active journalists are photographing how members of the Party of Regions are voting for each other, it should not continue. We urge you, Mr. Head, to announce the list of missing national deputies, not just formally, those who are out there somewhere, or who are supposedly ill, and those who are not actually present at the session. And their cards need to be locked. And also, if you'll excuse me, the daily routine is not fixed, which today should be "Variable" from 1 to 2 p.m. Please record this, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear friends, let us all obey the Rules. There's no such thing for me to block or not to block. I'm asking you, Fatherland, Turk's National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, first of all, I ask that you, after my speech, allow me to tell the women's deputies. It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u7	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u8	Yesterday the Supreme Council refused to support the submission of the President. I want to ask you. There is a re-appeal of the President, which you have put to the vote by violating the Supreme Council's Rules. And the third question. According to our information, the Supreme Council Secretariat illegally handed over eight card duplicates yesterday to the representatives of the Party of Regions and six duplicates this morning, which are placed in the back row, which are voting against the violation of the Constitution and the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u9	Thank you. People's deputy Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! We thank you for such a greeting to women. But we would like the attitude towards women in Ukraine not only to be in Parliament. We demand, understanding what torture is now and what attitude towards our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, our colleague Yuri Lucenka, we demand of the Supreme Council, understanding in what respects it is now a woman who cannot protect herself. Tell me, you did not hear how the country reacted when they wrote that a woman who had been pregnant and had been born had been handcuffed to a battery, and she gave birth to a child. Is it a civilized country? Do we have the right to be called Ukraine? Please tell us what kind of woman in Ukraine today does not feel safe here in the hall, although not all of us feel safe here. We demand today that our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, perform an act of civil disobedience on the fourth day. It shows this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u11	What are you yelling at? I can hear you. You demand that the Rules be. Here we go. Take a minute, lady. Please turn on another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u12	Please turn it on. To date, we only need to compare 1937 and 2013. It was not until 1937 that people were abused so much. Which one of you men will last a year and a half in the bathroom? There's a man sitting next to the bunk. Are you getting the pleasure? I know most of you don't get it. And that's why, first of all, as women of Ukraine, all the women of Ukraine who voted for Yulia Timoshenko, and all the women MPs who are present here from the opposition, we demand that Mr. Prosecutor of Pshonka in the Hall, let him give us an answer to the violation of women's rights in Ukraine. Torture and our leader, Julius Timoshenko. Secondly, to implement article 24 of the Penal Code, we demand the meeting of women representatives of the opposition with our leader, Yulia Timoshenko. We're demanding. And this is the fulfillment of the law. No one can forbid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u13	That's what you're asking me to do. What am I supposed to do? Huh? Don't you follow the rules? Let's give it a minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u14	Take out surveillance cameras in Yulia Timoshenko. Substituting guards for women is our requirement. And allow Yuri Lucenko to operate in an independent clinic called "Obrich." That's our 5 requirements. And if this is not done, we promise you such a women's rebellion, remember Ukraine, that you will remember everything that starts with Ukraine, from womanhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u15	Please, I'm asking the Party of the Regions. Three factions on the basis of the vote are speaking, who from the Party of the Regions? None. From the Communists? Let's keep going. Let's get back to work. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, I asked. Please from the Party of Regions, Herman Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, we demand that you not be discriminated against. When you give one part of Parliament all the conditions for them to express their thoughts, the other part -- you demand order and Parliament. We ask you for parity and ask you to promote business constructive work in Parliament, not a rally. There are venues for the rally, there is a hall for Parliament, where we need to work constructively. We've chosen you to provide this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u17	Notice accepted, accepted. According to article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be appointed Head of the National Bank of Ukraine with the submission of the President of Ukraine. An appropriate submission was made by the President of Ukraine. You have the material from this question. So I want to put to the vote a procedural decision to discuss this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. Please vote. I'll give you my word. I'll give it to [[10:50:37]] For 205 Decision taken. Please, Oleg Lazko, according to procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, non-factional. Dear Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, you've obviously never borrowed a four-dollar currency loan for a dollar today to pay back eight. And four million families in Ukraine are unable to repay their loans, they are being evicted from their homes. Obviously, you have never done business or production. Because today, interest rates on loans are 30 percent year-on-year. If you had known these questions, you would never have offered to consider the question of choosing the Head of Nazbank for a reduced procedure. It's questions to both the candidate for office and, in general, to discuss the situation in the money-credit market of mass. And we have a complete procedure to deal with this issue. It's a matter of course bracelets. It's a question of survival of the Ukrainian economy, of Ukrainian families. How can this question be considered in two minutes?Oh, my God! So I'm proposing a full procedure, from factions, from deputies to be able to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u19	Thank you. Let's get the show on. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u20	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! According to sub-paragraph 18 of the first part of article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced Sorkin Igor Vejeslavovich’s appointment as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u21	The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, National Deputy Alexander Mikolayovich Rizangkov. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u22	Dear Head, dear colleagues! According to paragraph 18 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for the appointment and discharge of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. According to part two of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee on Finance and Banking, to which the questions of the functioning of the banking system and the consideration of the relevant draft laws and regulations are referred, proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the submission of the President of Ukraine on the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Sorkin Igor Vejacheslavovich. During the discussion of Sorkin Igor Vejacheslavovich's candidacy at the 9 January Committee, a decision was taken on the support of Sorkin Igor Vejeslavovich's candidate for appointment as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u23	Thank you. Have a seat. He is invited to the rostrum to serve as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Igor Veacheslavovich Sorkin. Please. Room, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u24	Good day, dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, a highly respected society! Thank you for expressing confidence in the talk from our country’s most important rostrum. My nomination by the President of Ukraine to serve as Head of the National Bank is first of all a responsibility, I feel it. The responsibility of the National Bank for its core functions, the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine and the banking system, the trust that the National Bank has in society today, as well as the priorities of the National Bank, has been initiated.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u25	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u26	From this point of view, I'm going to point out that the National Bank's monetary policy is balanced and ensures that the main functions of the National Bank are performed. The main thing in 2012 is that price stability is ensured and the stability of the national monetary unit is maintained: bracelets. As far as the banking system is concerned, there is a positive trend today. I'll give you a few digits. First, there's a moderate increase in lending, and the economy's lending has increased by 30 billion dollars. I don't think it's enough for the economy, but it's a positive shift in crisis conditions, in a difficult situation. The quality of banks’ credit portfolios is improving, and the amount of problem credits in the banking system has decreased by 15 billion. People's confidence in the banking system is increasing. An increase of 58 billion has been made in the deposit accounts of individuals. There has been an increase in investment in statutory capital of banks by 3.5 billion dollars. And finally, this year for the first time since the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u27	You're out of time, you're out of time, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u28	If I have a minute, then I'll warn you about the positions where the National Bank will run in the shortest time. First of all, we need to continue to raise society's trust in the national monetary unit of the bracelet. So from this high rostrum, I'm talking to people who are commenting on the National Bank's actions, who are commenting on the dollar's interest rate. After these comments, the rate is going to be 10, 11, 12, the demand for currency is increasing and we're losing international reserves. Please be careful with our currency and then there will be joint actions aimed at preserving our reserves. Next. One of the priorities is to lower interest rates on loans and deposits in the banking system, which is also a very relevant issue. The National Bank has done a lot this year, over the course of two years, and above all, this is an increase in the refinancing of the banking system, extended refinancing terms, an increase in the amount of loan refinancing. We will work on regulating the banking system, on banking supervision to bring banking supervision closer to European standards. We will also contribute to the active development of non-cash accounts by introducing a basic law adopted by the Supreme Council of the past. The National Bank will make every effort to improve its effectiveness with international financial institutions, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank. In 2013, the National Bank's actions will focus on implementing the basic principles of monetary policy defined by the National Bank, the National Bank Board. With regard to monetary policy, I'm going to repeat once again that the National Bank is operating clearly in compliance with the requirements of the National Bank Board, and our monetary policy will only be in positions approved by the National Bank Board. A document that relates to monetary policy. credit policy, it's on the National Bank's website and it's been sent to the MPs. So if there's a question for this document, I'm going to ask the MPs who are part of the National Bank Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Your time is up. Sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. I'm asking the MPs, we've made our decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen! We made a decision: a reduced procedure. There are no short - term questions. Please sign up for the performance, and you will come out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for the performance! Well, let's follow the rules! What are you yelling at? It's Lazko, non-freakable. You didn't sign up? Why did I have a light? And on the way out of the rostrum, the Schweik national deputy signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u30	Please pass the word to the National Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u31	Illenka's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, actually, I'd like, first of all, to address the candidate himself as head of the National Bank, which is exactly how he's treated, and he's not actually respected, that instead of showing him his position, answering the question of MPs, he's actually being so darkly tried to vote, and that's, first of all, he's being humiliated by his colleagues. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. The first thing I wanted to say is that the National Bank is an institution that should really play a key role in the governance of the state. This should be an independent institution, and the head of the National Bank should be an independent figure. But what I am really doing today in Ukraine is actually creating a situation where the National Bank does not serve state interests, but the private interests of certain oligarchic groups and today is actually a family bank, not a bank. Not the National Bank of Ukraine. What's happening today, and what we're seeing here, is actually the non-productive activity of the National Bank, is the different rumors that the banking sector is actually spreading, and this creates a mistrust of the state itself, of the national currency. We all know about this terrible initiative about the 15 percent tax on the sale of currency that. That's what the National Bank actually stands for. At the same time, we know that today we have not heard any constructive programs offered by the National Bank’s management. We know that Mr. Arbuzov was run by the National Bank, who did not come to Parliament in the same way, thereby instilling disrespect for the higher legislative body. Today we heard no specifics from Mr. Sorkin. At the same time, we know that in 2012 almost a third of the national bank’s gold reserves declined. We see an opaque policy of domestic borrowing. And actually, for the rest of it, I would like to say the main thing. Mr. Sorkin actually has family connections that are so interesting. His father is one. Vechaslav Sorkin is one of the top managers of Gazprom, who earns money to destroy Ukraine's independence, is one of the tools of the Kremlin's imperialist policies. And in fact, is there not a conflict of interest here between a government official of that level and his father who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u33	I'll give it to you. Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u34	Andrey Pavlovsky, a faction of politically imprisoned and categorized by the authorities of Julia Timoshenko. Please give the word to Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u35	Please, Turkinov People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! Today, of course, there must be enough important voting for the State on which it depends, will continue to be the National Bank by the National Family Bank of the President's Administration or will return to its functions as chief regulator of the financial country. Today, the National Bank can be described as a total failure, a catastrophic, dangerous activity for Ukraine. Why? They systematically burn the country's resources, the gold currency resources, primarily to lend thoughtless, dangerous, anti-national policies to the government of Azarova-Januković. Moreover, these loans are stolen and issued by representatives of the current authorities, representatives of the Party of the Regions to the offshore zones. And when the National Bank proposes to impose a tax on tens of dollars that are in the Ukrainian pocket instead of stopping the capital outflow, first of all, the illegal outflow of capital from Ukraine, we say it's complicit in crime. The next question is, Dear colleagues, to which I would like to pay attention, because only two minutes have been given for the performance. I looked closely at Mr. Sorkin's declaration. And I'd like to ask him a question. Two million 200 thousand dollars. There's no question about the amount of income, and I have a question about why one and a half million of that income is the official salary of First Deputy Chief Natzbank? Why, when the majority of the population is starving, the National Bank sets itself millions of wages, pays itself, and saves itself. Why does the National Bank, when a country starves, increase its financing for recreation, for its entertainment? We have to answer for this! This is a crime! And one last question. It's very important, dear colleagues, how the vote will take place. When they vote with foreign cards again, we will turn to all the countries of the world not to recognize such a leader of the National Bank because of his.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u37	Thank you. There were no more entries for the performance. I'll give it by motive. Huh? Well, I'll give you a minute on the factions. A party of regions is a minute, you are a minute, and you are a minute. Please, Party of Regions, Herman. I'm asking Herman to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! In Ukraine and in this Parliament, there have been some very disturbing anti-democratic signals that have forced the world to list Ukraine in countries where human rights are violated. In this room, from this rostrum, a member of the Freedom Chamber was a precedent stated purely by Stalinic and Hitlerian digging methods, who is your father, where he works. There is no such practice in any democratic country and there cannot be! And we must not allow Stalinic practice in an independent democratic Ukraine. I'm asking you to sacrifice any attempt to return the Stalinic practice to Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u39	Thank you, Faction Hit, Rosenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, the UDA faction deprives us of the right to participate in the discussions with the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. So I'm trying to briefly clarify the position of our faction. Today, I was surprised by the applicant’s statement to this position on the stability of the national currency. I'll just give you a few digits. In October, September, Ukraine lost 2 billion currencies. Yellow - 1.5 billion, November - 1.5 billion, December - 1 billion. This indicates only one thing: a creeping and hidden devaluation of the bracelet is taking place in Ukraine. And that is the responsibility of today’s leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine. But all these problems that have accumulated in the financial sector, the National Bank wants to solve them exclusively on the account of ordinary citizens. We've already talked about this 15 percent exchange tax, which is exactly from the National Bank of Ukraine initiative. That's National.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u41	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u42	The National Bank does not want to control its interests in any way. The National Bank is already building new sanatoriums, spending hundreds of millions of dollars on panoramic elevators, on hydromassage baths, on its own supply. This policy of the National Bank of Ukraine directly contradicts the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And the direct responsibility for this process lies with Igor Sorkin, who was the deputy director of the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, I was impressed by the presentation of this candidate. He's a representative of the President. He's a representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u43	Easy. Sit down or it'll go off now. Take your seat and take your seat. That's two rules. Thank you. National MP Lazko out of town, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, non-factional. The management of the National Bank tells us about the course of the bracelet. But let's face it, what's the point in keeping the course of the bracelets? By reducing gold reserves, by declining economic growth, by removing money from the banking system and ultimately by substantially reducing citizens' income. So I'm going to go to the new Nazbank leadership, which is obviously going to be chosen today. Recall that the task of the National Bank is not only to keep the rate of interest but also to keep Ukraine’s economic growth steady, as provided for in article 6 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act. So one job today is to lower interest rates on loans. These are cheap lending resources to the Ukrainian economy for the purpose of restoring national production.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u45	So I'll give it to Illenko, I'll give it to him. The discussion was over. I am voting on the draft Decision appointing the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Sorkin Igor Vejeslavovich (Registration No. 1219) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:11:51]] For 231 231, against 10, held 0, not 96. It's a total of 337. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 13. Please sit down, dear fellows, sit down. On the grounds of the vote, Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to your presiding officer and all journalists and all colleagues -- again we have seen a violation of the Constitution and the Rules. As soon as we became all witnesses as members of the Party of Regions voted in favour of each other again, particularly Deputy Vecerko voted in favour of a neighbouring terminal for another MP. This is a disgrace, and we see again the illegal decisions made by the Ukrainian Parliament. And in closing, I'd like to say one thing. Here I mentioned what I said about family ties. I don't dig in anyone's family relationships. But when an official of the highest rank in the Ukrainian state has the closest relative who works as a top manager in a company that destroys Ukrainian independence, it raises some questions about national security. And you don't have to talk about Stalin here. Because Stalin is your policy, it's your policy to rehabilitate Stalinist criminals, deny the Holocaust, celebrate repression against Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of one minute's vote, I will give every faction. Tihypka, please, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head and distinguished national MPs! I, Vladimir Vasilovich, would like to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Vasilovich, we were prevented from voting, so two votes were virtually not voted in favour. That's why we would ask the Fabricant and Tihypco to include the Head of the National Bank further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u49	Got it. I'm asking for the reasons for Rosenko's vote, and then Catherinechuk or Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the members of the strike and other opposition forces have just seen a clear violation of the Ukrainian legislation and Constitution on personal voting. Today, neither God’s Word nor Skin nor Dobkin nor Johnishten are in the hall. Mr. Volodymyr, you are doing a very bad service, especially for such an important institution as the National Bank of Ukraine. From your first vote, you sow distrust of the Ukrainian banking system. Today, investors no longer trust her. Today, by such vote, you continue to push Ukraine into the ruin of financial and political instability. We demand that a service investigation be conducted today regarding the personal voting of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Oh, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u51	I'm asking Fatherland, Catherinechuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u52	Honorable Members of Parliament! And first of all, I'm going to the Party of Regions! We will make you decent Ukrainian national deputies who vote in person, who respect the Constitution, the law and the people of Ukraine. After we have come to help you vote no more than 250 deputies, we have 231 votes, but we would like to make it clear that in the event that the facts of the impersonal vote for the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine appear now, the opposition will create an investigative commission for the illegal appointment of the Head of the National Bank. And finally. We call on you, Mr. Head, not to establish a control function of opposition over each national MP from the Party of the Regions, but to turn on the assembled "Council" system for personal voting. The next session should begin with that new voting system, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u54	That the new voting system, which is mounted and functioning, should compel every member of Parliament to comply with the Ukrainian Constitution. By doing so, we will respect the people of Ukraine, and this we will indeed bear the high status of the Ukrainian national deputy. Personal voting is our key requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u55	We're pulling, we're closing the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u56	Respectable Society! Respectable Society! I would like to inform you that, literally the day before, we have received a ruling from the European Court of Justice Volkova, who appealed to these European institutions about the relevant illegal, as he believes, parliament. And the point of that appeal was that Parliament voted in favour of the release of this judge by foreign cards, that there was no personal vote, and the European Court granted the complaint to Judge Volkova. In what eyes now, with what eyes does Ukraine now have to look at the world, how can we deal with this problem now with the same judge? And this vote for Sorkin could have the same negative consequences as that of Judge Volkova. Society, you can't do that, you can't work that way, the 21st century, you've turned this Parliament into a circus, you've actually turned MPs into spiders that, I don't know, start pushing buttons on foreign terminals. But have a conscience! Dear Mr. Head, but this is your renown, this is your image in the eyes of society. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u57	Thank you. Let him finish one sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u58	We do not recognize such a non-legally elected head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, we need to consider the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Prasolova Igor Mikolaiovich, regarding the suspension of the mandate of the National Deputy for the term. This is a personnel issue that we urgently need to accept, and we've been looking at it. Therefore, honourable deputies, prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a draft Decree (1009) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Prasololova Igor Mikolaiovich for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:20:03]] For 229 For -229 against - 14, held -39, did not vote 101. The factions. Region Party – 191, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 8. There are two factions who ask for a recess to be held. I'll call it a 30-minute break. The Jacinyuk faction and the Thrust.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u60	Please invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I give the word of Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Yesterday, the Ukrainian opposition made sure that a number of important issues for the country were included in the agenda of today’s meeting. First of all, this is, of course, a question about Ukraine's European integration. And now this issue will be addressed in the Ukrainian Parliament. Now this is a test question to see whether the entire Ukrainian Parliament, whether all the political forces really are pursuing a course for Ukraine's European integration, whether they want high wages for Ukrainians, high standards of medicine and education, an honest legal system, an independent court, and, above all, a non-profit authority. We, as the opposition, clearly state that Ukraine's path is only to the European Union. In that case, if Ukraine is going to have any negotiations with the Customs Union on membership in the Customs Union, that means one thing: going back to the dark Soviet past, where we don't want to go back, we want to move forward. The second vote today is the vote on decriminalization of articles of the Criminal Code. We are confident that Ukraine should destroy the Stalinic articles of the Criminal Code. Stalin introduced the articles, and this president and this authority behind these articles put Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. In that case, if Ukraine decriminalizes these articles of the Criminal Code, it will, first of all, allow Timoshenko and Lucenko to be released, and this will enable Ukraine to act as a state worthy and dignified in the international arena, to sign a free trade zone with the European Union, and to become a politically-associated country with our Western partners. It's a test vote, a test vote on whether your words and actions differ, or whether we, as a country, are capable of proving that we want progress, that we want gains, that we want victory, and that we want Ukraine to become really a European state. I call on the Party of Regions and call on the majority candidates to support our decisions on European integration of Ukraine and to support the Law on Decriminalisation of Political and Criminal Responsibility, to release Timoshenko and Lucenko and to give freedom to the Ukrainian people, freedom in a free Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call (Project No. 1224). For a report on this issue, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given the floor on the subject of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Deputy Volodymyr Vladimir Makenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on January 9, this year, the Committee considered a draft calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared in accordance with article 83, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and articles 10 and 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan proposes to begin the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 5, 2013, and to conclude on July 19, 2013. During the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the seventh call is the draft calendar plan: for plenary meetings, 11 weeks, for committees, commissions and factions, 7 weeks, for the work of the national deputies of Ukraine with the electorate, 6 weeks and 10 hours of "questions to the Government" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the seventh vocation is prepared taking into account the features of the holidays and the nonworking days. The Committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Order 1224 from 10.01.2013 and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question for the committee? Is there a need to discuss? May I put it to a vote? Can I ask you a question? The Freedom faction. Who do you have? Igor Schweika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u65	Igor Schwaika, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Volodymyr, we spoke to the committee and the teacher about this question, the question is about May. Contrary to article 19 of the Ukrainian Rules, we put two plenary weeks next to each other. At that time, the explanatory note of your signature states that, taking into account the non-working days of May 1, 2 and 9, we suggest that we make substantive changes to the Rules in order to make effective use of working hours. Let us deal with one thing: either we make changes to the Rules, and our committee can regulate as it pleases; or we will abide by the Rules, and the Rules are a law that can only be amended as it needs to be amended, and so far we will work under the Rules. Our proposal, which we put forward, for the first week of May, should be plenary, for the second week, factions and committees, for the third week, for the plenary, for the fourth week, for the work in the districts, as stipulated by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that you forgot to name another March 8th. So let's be honest. It's about March 8, 1, 2, 9th. Therefore, the draft decision prepared by the regulatory committee and approved by a majority of votes is proposed for approval by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u67	Any more questions? No questions asked. Have a seat. Let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the draft Resolution on the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and overall. Members, please vote. [[12:02:08]] For 251 251, vs. 43, held – 13, not voted – 77. 384. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 2, Strike - 29, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-faction - 5. The Supreme Council's ruling has been adopted. Let us now consider the issues that were included in the agenda of the day session yesterday, for which I spoke and spoke to Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich. Therefore, there is a proposal to consider draft regulations on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Ukraine's integration into the European Union. So there's an offer to give a word to the chairman of the committee and to those deputies who came up with this proposal. And by a reduced procedure, make a decision. Is it accepted? Please vote to address these three issues in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:03:59]] For-187 Dear National Deputies, word to the Head of the Committee for European Integration Nemiri Grigori Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer to give a word to those who have made an offer, to three rapporteurs, and then to the head of the committee. Yeah, right? I'm sorry. And then you. I give my word to Yatsenyuk. Please. He will be followed by Heratchenko and Tihypko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u68	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of Parliament, the opposition has made and initiates the adoption of Ukraine's decision on Ukraine's European integration. Ukraine's European integration is not just declarations. Ukraine's European integration is what millions of Ukrainians expect. Of course, this is primarily a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens so that our Ukrainians and their Ukrainian passports can visit visa-free and unhindered European Union countries. The second is economic growth. Economic growth, which is essential for Ukraine. The reform plan, which is a direct document on the Free Trade Zone and the political association with the European Union, has already been written. It needs to be signed, it needs to be ratified, and in Ukraine, real changes are needed to increase the number of jobs, to increase wages, to increase investment, to increase social standards, to improve the quality of Ukrainian education, to enable Ukrainians to be treated, so that Ukraine is really a high standard European state. Ukraine should receive no corrupt government. Ukraine should receive fair and fair courts. Ukraine must be a worthy member of the European Union. Ukraine will not go into the past, which is the Soviet Union called the Customs Union. Ukraine will go into the future. We have invited our political opponents – the Party of the Regions – to vote in favour of this decree and not to fear that there is a point in this decree regarding the mandatory release of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. This is needed in general for the state. Stop political persecution, change criminal law, and allow the Ukrainian State with its proud head to sign a treaty with the European Union and actually be a subject, not an object.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u69	Let me finish. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u70	Not an object of foreign policy. We believe that such a decree should be approved by all the Ukrainian Parliament. Because our future is a European future. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u71	Thank you. National MP Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u72	Irina Heratschenko, Vitaly Call's Faction. Dear voters, 2013 can really be decisive in the issue of the external selection and the external vector of Ukraine. And there is good reason to say today that European integration is the unifying idea that unites more than half of the Ukrainians today. Because, in fact, the European Union is not just a high economic, social standard today, despite the economic crisis that exists in the European Union. This, first of all, value, this is democracy, this is a chance for the Ukrainian Parliament to become a parliament. Not to remain a disgraceful Supreme Council, which is not yet a parliament. Because values are representing the interests of their voters, it's respect for the opposition, it's the ability to vote for themselves, it's when the speaker is the speaker of the entire Ukrainian Parliament, not one room in the Bank. I would like to say, my fellow Members of the majority, that today we sincerely want to demonstrate to you that the opposition is very interested in making the "Ukraine-EU" summit, which will take place in February, productive and successful for Ukraine, not just formality. And for whoever, indeed, is going to support this agreement today, which will provide the basis for a successful, successful "Ukraine-EU" summit. We are against Ukraine being associated today with selective justice, with the arrests of opposition leaders, Timoshenko and Lucenka, with human rights violations. That is why we believe that today, indeed, the Association Agreement, Ukraine's support agreement, the Supreme Council's agreement, please forgive the Supreme Council's statement of support for the Association and Euro-integration Agreement should be supported by all Parliament. This is going to be an answer to our voters with you who support this idea. For the strike party, Euro integration is a fundamental principle. I want to say that even though our party, our faction has prepared its treaty, our declaration is appropriate, we will support the decision of the Committee on European Integration to vote today's session room on a joint statement that we will testify to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u73	Let me finish. Turn on the microphone. Please, please. We're on, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u74	You know, dear colleagues, it's just that I understand that in our session room, not the graduates of "the institute of noble virgins and the cruel corps," but what's happening in the Party of Regions, what the men of this party are allowing themselves to do, is more like those for whom Lieutenant Rzewsky's godfather gathered. They're in the front row, they're not very similar, of course, to politicians and deputies. And I think that the regulatory committee should look at the behavior of these people who are allowing themselves to comment in the front row on the speech of a colleague of opposition, a woman, so to speak, you know, that you don't sometimes hear in the back. Ending up, I want to say that. I don't say that again, let them communicate with them in their lock, where they live. I want to say that today we all have to work together to support the idea of European integration, because these are our common values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stick to the Rules. I ask you very much. You're asking me all the time to have the Rules, you're violating them all. Please. The word is given to Tihypco by Sergio Leonidovich. Please, your draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u76	Mr. Head, national MPs! Integrating to the European Union almost from the very beginning of Ukraine’s independence has remained at the heart of our foreign policy. Since 1993, an appropriate decision has been voted in the Supreme Council, and it was established at the legislative level in 2010. According to sociological research, regardless of political beliefs, religion, regional ownership, most Ukrainians support Euro-integration, and we will find better standards of social policy, better standards of business, better standards of democracy. In recent times, the European Union has given us very good signals in relation to the fact that it also sees us in this process and is ready to approach us and to help us get closer to European society. If everything is really going to be on our side as effectively going through, we're going to make the right decisions, by the way, there's not much left, but in February at the summit we can get visa facilitation for many categories of Ukrainians, and we can practically have a free trade zone with the European Union in the fall. Once the Association Agreement has been signed, it shall enter into force automatically. To that end, it was very appropriate to really accept a common document today. But I looked at that document that was adopted yesterday, and I can tell you, it's politicized. We will not vote for such a document together. I tried to prepare a document from the Party of Regions, which is totally depoliticized, which takes into account all the demands that Europeans have made on us. So I'd like to ask if we can now support that document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u77	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u78	Whether we support a depoliticized document, and I think it would take time for us to adopt a joint document, it would take a joint working group and a small time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please, we have a reduced procedure: two for, two for against, write it down. From the committee? Take it off. I'd like to ask the committee and then discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that from the very beginning of the work of the Supreme Council, there has been a clear statement by the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the relevance, necessity, relevance and adoption of a joint statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on support for Ukraine's integration into the European Union. I would also like to remind you that the President, in his Address to the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call, stated: Ukraine’s European perspective is to become a united factor around which all political forces in the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine are being consolidated. Four draft applications were registered yesterday. Sadly, one of them, prepared by Peter Prašenko, was not introduced for unknown reasons into the order of the day. The Conciliation Council decided to entrust the European Integration Committee with efforts to try to prepare a joint draft of such a statement before today's plenary meeting. This decision was taken by the committee yesterday, for which it was voted. in full membership of the committee, including all the factions that are represented in it, including the faction of the regions. To implement this decision, a working group was set up that worked yesterday until 11 p.m., at which all the factions were invited. As a result of this work, a joint project has now been prepared, registered in the Supreme Council, 1243, signed by the People's Deputies, the factions' leaders Arsenia Yatsenuk, Vitali Klick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u81	Let me finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u82	Also signed by Peter Prashenko, me as head of the Committee, Irina Heratchenko and Boris Tarasyuk. Notably, three former foreign ministers signed this project. Unfortunately, I spoke to Sergei Leonidovich, who said that he was sick yesterday and was unable to participate in the work of a joint working group. So let's be realistic: if we put to the vote these three projects that are registered today, none of them will get the required number of votes, and this will be our joint defeat, because we all know that a summit called "Ukraine-EU" is due to take place on February 25th, a summit that didn't take place last year. As the Supreme Council, we need to demonstrate unity in the Ukrainian Parliament. So I'm making a proposal: don't vote on these projects today, because they won't get most of them. Instead, you have to make a decision about it. To entrust the Committee on European Integration with the preparation of a joint coordinated project that would take into account the opinion of all the political factions that are represented in the higher legislative body, because this corresponds to our common interests as the Parliament of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do. Let's take a minute, there's another project, let's hope Dusty. And without discussion, we'll make the decision that the committee made. We'll make a decision, we'll make a decision, then we'll discuss it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. Just don't yell at anyone: not yours, not yours. You don't have to. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u84	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! I will not stress the importance of the topic of European integration, which today is raised on the flag of the vast majority of the political forces represented in this Parliament. I just want to emphasize the terms. On February 25th, there will be a meeting of the "Ukraine-EU" summit. The importance of this summit is not just the adoption of a visa facilitation document, but the completion of the first stage of the legislative provision of the visa-free regime "Ukraine-EU". In order to complete this, we need to adopt a series of legislative acts that are clearly reflected in this statement and in this regulation. Including my editor. I would like to stress once again that in the autumn of this year, at the Eastern Partnership Summit, Ukraine has a unique chance of signing an Association Agreement, including a deeper and inclusive area of free trade. This requires a series of bills and a series of steps taken by the executive authority, which are clearly reflected in my decision. So it's a drag.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u86	Dragging or stalling this process will be harmful, not for a separate political power, but for the entire process of European integration of Ukraine. That's why I'm going to have a request. First request. Or take the committee's decision on the basis of it now and work on it, consider all the suggestions, because they are not politicized – I answer to the honourable Sergey Leonidovich. If this proposal does not find support, be sure to support the decision of the committee that the chairman of the restaurateur has made regarding the task of developing a Main Committee to take all the proposals into account and, no later than February 5, to vote on this extremely important statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote -- please listen -- to the committee's proposal to refer these decisions to the Main Committee for a re-reading of the first draft of their preparation on the basis of the only agreed draft. To withdraw the vote. One minute to the factions. Please sign up for factions. National deputy Sabi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u88	I give you the word Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u89	Oleg Pankevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union welcomes the consideration of the issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope that a decision will be made, but it will not become a simple declaration and have a positive effect. However, in the version of the bill from the Party of Regions, it is rather an attempt to hide its real activity in the internal and external policies of the state. Not a statement with good texts should be accepted by the active authority, you have all the possibilities: the Presidential Vertical, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the executive power, the majority in Parliament, the courts and the law enforcement authorities, that is, all the possibilities not to speak, but to act to deprive Ukraine of the total influence of the northern neighbour, but your Party of Regions, depending on Moscow, is chronic. Moreover, you are an instrument of Moscow influence. Therefore, real steps towards positive European standards will be taken only when power changes in Ukraine, and that time will come quickly. In discussing the issue of Euro-integration aspirations, Freedom believes that Ukraine must go solely out of the realm of its national interests, and therefore we cannot agree to separate positions in the projects under discussion. Do we assume that the document does not require a declaration of obligation? In particular, the implementation of reforms without detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u91	Thank you. The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Ionova. Wait a minute. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u92	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u93	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, once again, I stress the very important position that the Supreme Council should become a parliament and take an active position on foreign policy. And our statement should be not a formality indeed, but a plan of action that will bring Ukraine closer to Euro-integration and do everything possible to sign in 2013 an agreement that Ukraine, Ukrainian diplomats, Ukrainian politicians have been working on, Ukrainian authorities have been working since 2007. We have every opportunity to do that. And, indeed, we support the idea that this is a joint statement by the entire Supreme Council to receive it to the summit of Ukraine-EU to get us together, and this is a very constructive position, which unfortunately is not appreciated by the authorities, demonstrated their willingness to do everything in order to make this summit a success for Ukraine. Not for individual parties, factions, but for Ukraine. This is our position, and we ask you to support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u95	Thank you. Hanna Herman instead of Merchant. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u96	Dear friends, you and I have adopted here from the initiative of the President and the Party of the Regions the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy, where we have clearly defined Euro-integration as the main orientation of foreign policy. Our party, the President, have done much to make this law a reality. And if it wasn't for the total attempts and attempts of the opposition to tarnish Ukraine in the world, we would have signed an association with the European Union last year, and today we would have taken the next steps. We weren't allowed to do that. The emissaries and the Nemiragate case, which the whole world is talking about right now, have prevented Ukraine from doing so. Today those human rights violations, those anti-Semitic speeches that members afford.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u98	Members of the radical political power that has entered parliament also face obstacles to European integration. That's why we need to work together today, bring all these documents back to the committee, produce a document that we can jointly adopt in Parliament, vote here and stop staining Ukraine in the world, and move forward on the path of Euro-integration. This is what a party of regions are calling for.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u99	Thank you, thank you. Dear men, well, we've seen all our women, but we've all agreed to respect them, so let's respect them. Come on, the last speaker and we'll vote. The impolite signed up, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u101	Arsenia Yatsenyuku's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u102	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of Parliament, there are few moments in this Parliamentary Hall when we must exercise national wisdom. Well, wisdom is shown by those who have a mind. I hope that the mind will show up in everyone. We need to adopt a single joint act and we need to adopt it in the first plenary week of the next session. So, Mr. Head, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, I request you. In addition to the fact that we should now vote on the decision to entrust the Main Committee to the adoption of the only agreed draft decision on European integration, I ask that this decision be considered in the first plenary week of the calendar plan that we have approved, i.e. up to 25 numbers. And so this is also a protocol decision for Parliament. I'm sure we'll be able to make a single decision and consolidate for the sake of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u103	Thank you. They asked for the word, and they have the right, the faction of the Communist Party. Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u104	Thank you. Thank you. Whoever says there is no right, let him look at the 34th article of the Rules, which provides for the guaranteed right to speak on every faction of any matter that is dealt with in the Supreme Council. Learn the material part first, and then you'll be drifting. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. I cannot support the position of those who have spoken today about the fact that the statements we are considering are not politicized. Each statement has its own politicized unilateral orientation and unilaterally implements the same Law on the Basic Principles of Internal and External Politics adopted by the Supreme Council. To all those who have forgotten this law, I remind you that beyond Euro-integration, our cooperation with the Russian Federation and other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States is strategic. The same claims do everything the other way around. That is why we support such statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u105	Thank you. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to refer these draft decisions to the Main Committee for a re-reading of the first draft prepared on the basis of the only agreed draft and to consider at the first plenary week of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:30:06.]] For 348 We can work together. 348 vs. 0 held – 0 did not vote – 53.401. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 76, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 13. It's been decided. Let's move on to question 1099. Draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code for the purpose of securing Ukraine's international legal obligations (Swedish National Deputy Draft). There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[12:31:19]] For-183 Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the Legislatures Committee, Kozemjakina Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u106	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Let us remind you that according to part of article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, international agreements are in place, and the commitment given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is part of Ukraine’s national legislation. But we ourselves create absurd situations where international treaties or conventions are ratified and the corresponding changes to national legislation have not been made over the years. Article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility for exceeding authority or official authority if it has caused material harm to protected legal interests. We have repeatedly said, however, that there is no specific definition of protected interests, as well as significant harm and serious consequences. Furthermore, article 364 provides for helpful motives or other personal interests or interests of third parties. At the same time, the UN Convention against Corruption ratified in this room in article 19 recommends that Member States identify crime as a deliberate abuse of official authority or official status, i.e. any act or omission from an act which is a violation of legislation, by a public official in the performance of his duties with the aim of obtaining any undue benefit for himself. This was understood even by the international community. You remember that in Resolution 1862 (26.01.2012), the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe made it clear that articles 364-365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine were too broad to apply and essentially allow the post facto criminalization of normal political decisions. This is contrary to the rule of law and is unacceptable. We wondered how many people were condemned under article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code today. 99 percent of those convicted had a personal advantage or used violence, tortured people. During 2012, 352 criminal cases were also violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u108	All law enforcement. I mean, 53 people who serve their sentences, 42 of them, i.e. they tortured, violated criminal cases illegally. Ten who had just a beneficial benefit, and one man was Julia Timoshenko, who had no useful advantage, who was condemned illegally. That's why, dear colleagues, the main thing. I want to see my colleagues in this room, my colleagues from the Communist faction, my colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions, my colleagues from the non-factional. Dear colleagues, many of you are professing Christian morality and Christian truth, and it is desirable that this be not just in the watchtowers. I would like to remind you that a great many here sitting in the Hall of Julius Timoshenko once stretched out a hand of help. You know, there's a time of truth, there's a time when you have to collect stones. So I would like to ask you all to vote in favour of this bill on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u109	Thank you. Please sign up. Two for, two for the project. Please sign up. Please, Leonov, the Freedom Union. Andrew Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u110	This article is not specifically available. The objective side of its action does not contain clear indications that criminal punishment can be separated from other activities. In fact, this article can bring up any activity in the field of farming or management. In fact, this rule has become an instrument of political repression by the authorities. This article is the legacy of a steel - based Soviet repressive machine, and it therefore endures no criticism. I would like to quote an article from the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. "Article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is too wide. In applying and essentially allowing the post facto criminalization of normal political decisions. This is contrary to the rule of law and is unacceptable." The Society, let's think, over 900,000 claims of torture in the militia last year is a sentence for our law enforcement. This system needs radical reconstruction and starts with a symbolic step: releasing the leaders of the opposition that prisoners recognize around the world, repealing the new Criminal Procedure Code and adopting a quality document, and working on a reform package. Otherwise, Ukraine will remain the police state it is now. And if the authorities were interested in anything other than derby and marauding, they would remember that you can't sit on the bayonets for long, it's not an intermountal gold toilet.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u111	Thank you. It's the Fatherland faction, Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u112	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Hand over the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u113	Deputy Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! I would like to highlight two points when we talk about the bill that Andrew Cosemiakin reported. First. We don't cancel how many people in the towers say that we haven't read this law, that we're canceling 365, 366 articles. I would like to stress once again, we are not cancelling any articles, we are bringing the legislation of Ukraine, including these articles, into European standards. This is what has been said in the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and this is what the resolutions of the European Parliament say. That is, those who, who have a personal gain from the position of service, who have abused the position of service by torturing people, or who have caused specific physical harm to a person, will be punished, they will continue to be persecuted by law. But an article that now exists in the Stalinese newspaper allows any person to be drawn, any person, for abuse of the position of service and you, to be respected national deputies when those who order political affairs are willing to do so. That is why it is the principle today to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with European standards, not to cancel, as many have commented, some articles. That's the first one. The second question. Before that, the Supreme Council voted in favour of a joint project on European integration. Leadership, the country's current leadership, is certainly ready to go anywhere to watch money, to be credited with further powers, but, in any case, they keep talking, including European integration. I think there's a lot of people here not only on the right, but on the left, they really want European integration and they want to see Ukraine as a European country, colleagues. But it is simply a desire to have accounts abroad and to be repressive! That's not gonna happen, guys. In order to move to Europe, Europe has been public about this for two years in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u116	We need to stop the political repression. Criminal legislation must be brought to European standards. And without today's vote, there will be no European integration. Therefore, today’s vote is a test for every political force present in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u117	Thank you. Kunchenko, Party of Regions. An oil man, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u119	Speaking from this rostrum, individual opposition leaders spoke of 364, 365 articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code as Stalinic articles. I want to disappoint you: Ukraine's Criminal Code was adopted in a new edition in 2002, and Stalin has no relation to it. But if you have any Stalinists among you, and this is what the BUT voted for, you can figure it out for yourself. That's the first one. The other one. Article 19 of the Constitution clearly states that there is a legal order. The point is simple: Ukrainian citizens have the right to do whatever they want, except what is forbidden by law. And officials, authorities must act on the basis of the law, within the law and in the manner prescribed by law. Such a corridor was prescribed by the legislator and was responsible for the absence of a parliamentary saviour. If we follow the principle of "need to release someone," let's cancel the murder story and bring one MP back. Why not? Under the circumstances. You have to take a stand against it. This is where the 364th article was criticized. It's "Violence in the Service." Dearly beloved, read the UN Convention against Corruption (so called), article 19 of this Convention. The distribution of this article to each other corresponds to item 364. Please tell me you want to cancel. And that's why the Party of Regions wants us to stick to the rule of law in the state. These articles are hardworking, condemned by more than a thousand officials. Because if we don't give these limits of responsibility, then the officials will be making a mockery. You come to them to register businesses, and he says, "Give me a hint!".. You don't give another, third, fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u120	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u121	We're here to act by law and by the Constitution, and the Constitution is against such an aberration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u122	Thank you. One minute. National MP Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u123	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, non-factional. I think there is no man in this room, just as there is no man in Ukraine who would doubt that Timoshenko and Lucenko are political prisoners. It's obvious to everyone. No matter what you say, no matter what the articles refer to, the whole world and all Ukraine know that Timoshenko and Lucenko are political prisoners, and they must be released immediately. But. When we tell you that one Timoshenko innocent is in prison, it's not true. In Ukraine, thousands of people sit for nothing. In particular, I recently received an address from Andrija Shamanov of the Donetsk National Commission, who has been sitting there for three years because of crossing the road to the militia. That is why we need to talk not only about the release of political prisoners, but in general about bringing the country’s legal system into a situation where the innocent do not go to prison. And there's more I'd like to say. Timishenko, I'm absolutely sure he doesn't need amnesty or decriminalization, he needs full rehabilitation and immediate release, it's only possible if he changes power in the country. That's why I recommend opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u124	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u125	So I recommend that the opposition focus all its efforts on the immediate change of power in the country. Only this will enable Timoshenko to be released immediately. Everything else is propaganda, it's imitation, including opposition leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u126	Thank you. A discussion of this subject. Postfaction Mishchenko, please, a minute. All of it. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u127	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, please explain to me that I have registered with Tomenko the same bill regarding the decriminalization of these two articles 364 and 365. Why is he not in the order of the day today? Because I'm going to explain to Ukrainian citizens and MPs who don't have legal or prosecutorial education, you know, in a common language, which is 364 different from 365. 364 articles is a duty? You definitely need a useful motive, so you got the money, the family preference, that kind of thing. And 365 is nothing to have at all, that's what Volodymyrni Timoshenko is in Julius. And I'm telling you, give me a minister for three days, I'm going to break a dozen criminal cases against this minister in 365 articles. Because the UN Convention, and here the Lord of the Party of Regions is wrong, requires that there be a corruption component. 365 is a useful motive, and Tymoshenko has no useful motive. And she really doesn't need any amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u128	Thank you. Is it proposed to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in order to secure international legal obligations? Ukraine (No. 1099) as a result of the discussion in the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[12:46:07]] For-161 For 161, against 3, held – 1, did not vote – 224, total – 389. The factions. Region Party 8, Fatherland 75, Vitalia Klicka Strike 33, Freedom 34, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 11. Decision on the draft law has been adopted. We continue our work, distinguished national MPs. We need to consider the assignment of out - of - turn local elections. For a report on this issue, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given to the State Building and Local Self - Rule Committee of the People’s Deputies, David Važajevich. Let's call the election. I've already made an announcement. Where's Zhuaniya? Where's Zhuaniya? Is there no Zhuvania? Then we will consider later when the committee is in place. And we're moving on to ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal: ratification, which is in order of the day, to be considered without discussion, and ratification by the number 0009 – under a reduced procedure. No comments? Please vote. [[12:48:49]] For-173 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations on the Legal Status of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations and its Representation in Kiev is under consideration. Report of the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine - Moiseyenko Raís Alexandrovna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u129	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Association, and this law, which is presented for the purpose of entering into force of the treaty signed by Ukraine by the government in 1997 in Geneva, will contribute to the implementation of the Federation of the Humanitarian Mission. The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is the world’s largest humanitarian network. It includes more than 187 countries, including the prevention and relief of human suffering, the promotion of any effort to protect human beings, to provide social protection, to ensure the rights to education and to protect health. The ratification of this document will also strengthen the legal framework for ensuring the legitimacy of Ukraine’s participation in international cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u130	Please sit down. Can I put this bill to the vote? I am voting on the draft Law (0004) on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations on the Legal Status of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Associations and its Representation in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote. Accept as a whole. Please vote. [[12:51:41]] For 225 Turn on the Myrrhichka microphone. Turn on Yuri the Merchant.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u131	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, our colleagues have not been informed and not all have been able to vote, I ask you to question the return to the vote on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u132	I would like to vote on the return of this matter. Please vote. [[12:52:36]] For 235 Decision taken. I stand for this law to be passed in general. Please vote. [[12:53:00]] For 235 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (registration number 0005) is under consideration. The rapporteur is Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Amending Protocol and Supplements to the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. The protocol was signed on May 27, 2010 in Paris by the Head of State Tax Administration. Under the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the Protocol is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The objective of the Protocol to Amend the Convention is to bring the Convention into line with an internationally agreed Transparency and Information Standard. The specified Standard provides for the establishment of a procedure for the exchange of information on a request for all tax matters relating to the administration and application of the national tax legislation of bases of warnings on the requirements of national tax interest or bank secrecy. The Protocol proposes to remove the rule on the need for prior authorization of authorized authorities (pages) to disclose information during judicial proceedings. Exclude details of the information used in the exchange. Foresee whether the requesting party has taken all measures in accordance with its internal legislation and administrative practice when requesting information. Delete the position that the requested State is not obliged to communicate information if the requesting State has not taken all measures in accordance with its domestic legislation and administrative practice. Add a non-administrative position if it discriminates against the citizen of the requested party compared to the citizen of the requesting State. The administrative burden on the requesting party is clearly excessive compared to the advantages of the requesting party. And there are also some standards that are added in the materials. So I ask you to uphold the prescribed law in general, the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat. I would like to vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (No. 0005). Vote and accept as a whole. Please vote. [[12:56:12]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, again the same situation: our colleagues were not informed. Please ask the question of returning to the vote on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and listen and vote. What are we going back to? We're not coming back. There is a proposal from Miroshnik: Go back to this project (No. 0005). [[12:57:07]] For 234 Decision taken. There is a proposal to adopt the draft Law (registration number 0005). Please vote. [[12:57:34]] For 230 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ukraine’s Association to the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness (Registration No. 0006). The First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs is Sergey Petrovich Chernych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness is proposed for consideration. The Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness is a basic international and legal act that provides for measures to alert the emergence of non-citizenism. Joining the Convention will contribute to cooperation with international cooperation on the reduction and elimination of statelessness, the realization of human rights, the prevention of the emergence of refugees, the improvement of international law on the acquisition of citizenship, and so forth. On a national scale, accession to the Convention will contribute to the protection of human rights, the exercise of the right to the protection of an individual by a State, and the creation of an effective legal relationship between a person and a State. The draft act is agreed with interested executive authorities without notice. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u138	Thank you. I am betting on the vote on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness (project registration number 0006) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[12:59:32]] For 232 Are you on the basis of the vote? Please on the grounds of the vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u139	A number of articles of the Convention contradict the laws of Ukraine, as explained in the Explanatory Note. How can we vote on a reduced procedure? And by the way, the Convention doesn't allow any warnings. And in the project, by the way, it's not exactly the law. The same as the next document, it provides for the possibility of issuing warnings, but you want to proceed with the reduced procedure. I would have thought that we should not rush so quickly, but we could have warned about the second draft of the 1954 Convention Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u140	Thank you, thank you. A draft Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons (project registration number 0007). First Deputy Minister Sergei Petrovich Chernych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons is proposed for consideration. The aim of the adoption of this legal act is to join Ukraine in the Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons, which will promote the development of international legal principles relating to citizenship, international cooperation of national authorities whose competence is the issue of citizenship. Ukraine's accession to the convention is an important step, as it will allow at the normative level to regulate the status of persons without citizenship, ensure individual stability and certain fundamental rights, as well as the satisfaction of a number of personal needs, such as access to the judicial system and education. Joining the convention will enhance cooperation with the international community on the issue of reducing and eliminating statelessness, implementing human rights, warning refugees by removing factors that are premeditated, improving international law in part of acquiring citizenship, and so on. On a national scale, this will contribute to the protection of human rights, the exercise of the right to the protection of an individual on the part of the State, the establishment of a close legal link between individuals and the State. The convention does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the laws of Ukraine. The draft act is agreed with interested executive authorities. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u142	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Status of Stateless Persons (project registration number 0007) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:03:13]] For 228 Decision taken. "To" is 228. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay (project registration number 0008) is under consideration. He will report to the Foreign Minister, Leonid Alexandrovich Kojar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! I welcome you to begin your work this year. I wish you happiness, health, peace and harmony in this room. The agreement between Ukraine and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay was signed by the Foreign Minister on April 25, 2012, in Montevideo. The agreement was signed taking into account all state and inter-State procedures, such as the Ukrainian Law on International Treaties of Ukraine and the Protocol on the establishment of diplomatic relations between Ukraine and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay since 25 May 1992. Ukraine's draft law was agreed with the relevant central executive authorities of Ukraine and its implementation does not require additional budgetary funding. An important political outcome of the adoption of the Treaty's ratification law will be the strengthening of relations of friendship and cooperation between our countries on the basis of sovereign equality and mutual respect, the further development of fruitful cooperation in political, commercial and economic, humanitarian and other fields. Given that the Eastern Republic of Uruguay is a member of many important regional organizations, such as MERCUSUR, the Latin American Association of Integration, as well as the organization of American states of cooperation with that State, it is important in the context of the development of Ukraine's relations with the listed organizations and other regional groupings of Latin America. The adoption of the Ratification Act will also contribute to broadening contacts between citizens of two countries, so I ask the Supreme Council to support the Ratification Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u144	Thank you. Have a seat. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay (project registration number 0008) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:06:36]] For 236 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Interaction of Emergency Warnings, Fires, and the Elimination of Their Consequences in Settlements, located in the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, is under consideration. Reported Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations Kwasuk Vasil Pavlovich. Is Pinzenic in the hall? Yes. I'll give you my word. I made an agreement when we discussed the matter, to pass it on. Yeah, okay. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law, which provides for the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Interaction of Emergency Warnings, Fires and Elimination of Their Consequences, signed on 12 July 2012 in Yalta. The said Agreement provides for the establishment of a general legal framework and principles for dealing with emergency response and the elimination of their consequences with the Black Sea emergency formations. Warnings of emergencies and the rapid elimination of their consequences will contribute to the maintenance of normal population activity, the improvement of the safety of all life-support systems, the protection of Ukrainian citizens from technological and natural emergencies at sites of military formation of the Black Sea fleet. Thank you for your attention, please support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u146	Thank you. We agreed to listen to the people’s deputies Pinzenik and Kirilenko. We had a two-way deal, two-way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u147	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I ask you to draw your attention to a few fundamental points. Article 5 of this Agreement provides for the jurisdiction of Russian legislation over Black Sea Navy personnel in Ukrainian populated areas. It's legal nonsense. Another country’s legislation cannot operate in Ukraine. We don't need our work, we don't need to vote if the Cabinet of Ministers proposes that the legislation of another country operate in Ukraine. Item two. Article 9 foresees, in the event that the party inviting assistance in eliminating the consequences, Ukraine, for example, invites the Russian side, all the damage caused by the natural and legal party that is invited is compensated by the party that invited it. That's the second nonsence. Third thing that is not settled in this covenant. In addition to this agreement, the agreement regulates the following cases: explosions of ammunition, fires, plane crashes, and third, pollution with toxic substances. It is absolutely appropriate to resolve the issue of investigating the causes of this accident and it is absolutely necessary to compensate for the damage caused by these accidents. In this regard, we propose to return the agreement to the government. The other one. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with further negotiations on this agreement by removing the rules on the jurisdiction of another country’s legislation in Ukraine and by adding to the agreement the points relating to the investigation of the cause of the accident and the compensation for the damage caused by those accidents involving the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Kirilenko. And after him, Chevchenko. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u149	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, this agreement is not in favor of Ukraine again. And in general, agreements with the Black Sea fleet need to be reviewed and considered very carefully, not as we often do. If we take not only the letter but the spirit of this agreement, it is clear that this is not the agreement on how our extraordinary forces, the Mini-Defense forces, and other units will have access to the Black Sea Navy sites, how the Black Sea Navy troops in Sevastopol, Geneva, all over Crimea, and wherever they want to go, will have access to our facilities, to our territory, and to their affairs there. There have already been instances in the area of Genicea where troops of the Black Sea fleet have been driving without permission to move. This is what comes out of the spirit of this covenant. Moreover, it is not clear why the government, on occasion, forcing most people to ratify this agreement now, does not raise other issues about the survival of the Black Sea fleet. Why are more than 40 docks still used by the Black Sea fleet illegally? Why more than 200 sites still appear to be a substandard Black Sea fleet. Why there has not yet been an inventory of objects allegedly leased by the Black Sea fleet, but there is no lease agreement on a specific object because there is no inventory in turn. Why the government does not deal with these issues, does not violate them, but simply makes it stupid to press the buttons for the ratification of a new agreement that does not give Ukraine anything. So we urge the majority not to vote in favour of this agreement, to postpone its consideration, and also, you know, there was this inscription in the old days, "Better Control is your conscience." So, no matter what the opposition has left, vote individually if you are going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u150	Thank you. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u151	If you're going to vote for this unnecessary agreement for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u152	Shevchenko and Schufrich, and we will vote. The representatives of each faction, we were determined. Please. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u153	Don't make any noise, Your Honor. Let me speak. For the first time in my life, show respect for your colleague. I just want to say this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u154	Basically, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u155	By this covenant, we will deliberately renounce our sovereign rights, especially the right to control our territory. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, my God! What a savagery that is!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u156	Stop it!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u157	The fact is that Ukraine is a sovereign state under international law and controls the entire territory. But this agreement replaces three basic agreements. Why? Because we can't penetrate our territory, we need a request from the commander of the Black Sea fleet. And the second. He then manages to eliminate the effects of natural disasters or fires, as well as the commander of the Black Sea fleet’s operational team. The third country, for example, should be compensated by the third party’s injuries. But it turns out that this agreement actually denies us the right to control the territory, the situation. We don't control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u159	We do not control part of the territory; we are actually asking permission to go to arbitrarily captured objects. For example, in Genician or Seminomie and so on and so forth. I would urge you not to vote. There was also a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u160	Thank you. National Deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. And an explanation will be given by the prime minister and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I understand that our colleagues from the opposition in one of the words "The Black Sea Fleet" already have an appropriate response. But, dear colleagues, let us, nevertheless, be more responsible and considerate. This is an extraordinary situation. And to talk about who should compensate for the damage if one side came to help the other side with one goal: to protect life and health, that's secondary. This is normal international practice, which is an invitationing party asking for help, and in this case whether it is Russian or Ukrainian, they certainly care for the lives and health of the people. So I think the nonsense that we're talking about right now is inappropriate. We have to thank, on the one hand, the representatives and rescue forces of the Black Sea fleet that they are ready to come and help us. On the other hand, we are always ready to come and help representatives, employees, and officials of the Black Sea fleet. We've done it many times and we'll do it. It's our job today. And to speculate on this issue only because there is one word for "Black Sea Fleet" -- I'd like to hold on to that. And I'm calling on everyone in this room to support and ratify this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u162	Thank you. Vasil Pavlovich Kwasuk, please, one minute of explanation, and we will vote briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies, the Agreement corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, an Agreement developed in the development of an Agreement on the Placement of Military Bases of the Black Sea Fleet in Ukraine since 28 May 1997. And the third. This agreement is based on an existing ratified agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of industrial accidents, disasters, natural disasters and the elimination of their consequences. And the fourth. I want to say that by working together with the emergency relief efforts of the Black Sea Fleet and the emergency relief units of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, we are twice as likely to eliminate any emergency situation, reduce the threat to our people, protect their lives, protect their well-being, save our territories from any emergencies and their negative consequences. It's for the safety of people that we vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u164	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Members, please take your seats and vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Interaction of Emergency Warnings, Fires and the Elimination of Their Consequences in Settlements, where the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation is located in Ukraine (project registration number 0009) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:19:32]] For 222 I asked you to take your seats and vote. The decision is not taken. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, imagine the situation, for God's sake, but the house is on fire, and the Black Sea Navy rescuers are closer than our rescue workers, and they've protected people's lives, but they've had to break doors, break fences. Why should they respond materially if they protected a person’s life and were closer than our saviors? I ask you now with the utmost responsibility to ratify this law and to allow rescuers who are absolutely apolitical to carry out their noble duty and to protect people's lives. The situation around the Black Sea fleet has nothing to do with the ratification of this agreement; this is a very different matter. This is the only way to protect people’s lives and health, and it is not to blame who is responsible. And above all, it's about protecting Ukrainian citizens. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u166	I'm asking questions on my return to the subject. Please vote. [[13:21:31]] For 230 Decision taken. 230. Now I'm betting. I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm motivated to make a decision, ladies. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Interaction of Emergency Warnings, Fires and the Elimination of Their Consequences in the Settlements of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine (project registration number 0009) for adoption as a whole. [[13:22:40]] For 228 Decision taken. Pinzenik asked for a vote. Please. We have one draft ratification law left. Sit down, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why you're looking forward to it, because it wasn't about whether or not we needed this agreement, we didn't deny it. But today you voted an unprecedented decision: you have expanded the legislation of the Russian Federation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u168	A draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Alimony for Children and Other Family Maintenance (Registration Project 0010) is under consideration. Deputy Justice Minister Vorona Dmitry Mikolayovich. Please, and we'll vote. Sit down, dear friends, sit down. Dmitri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u169	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Convention on International Alimony for Children and Other Family Maintenance was adopted and opened for signature at the 21 diplomatic sessions of the Hague Convention on Private International Law. On behalf of Ukraine, the convention was signed on July 7, 2010. The provisions of this convention take into account the analysis of the application of the 1973 Hague Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions regarding Maintenance Obligations. The Convention offers States a modernized mechanism of cooperation between States and their competent authorities with a view to promoting persons entitled to maintenance, the right to alimony from persons living abroad, in particular those who apply to child alimony, the obligation to support one of the spouses, and the obligation to retain their family rights. The Convention establishes the order and grounds for recognition or refusal of recognition and enforcement of decisions on alimony, taking into account differences between the legal systems of the State. Ukraine’s accession to the Convention does not require amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine. The provisions of the Convention do not provide for the payment of membership fees. Implementation does not require spending from the State Budget. The bill proposes to make statements and warnings to the Convention, based on the provisions of the Family Code, the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. Article 4 proposes to define the Ministry of Justice to the central authorities in Ukraine from the performance of the Convention’s functions. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supported the ratification of this Convention. In this regard, I ask you to make a decision and recommend a bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-01-11-m0.u170	Deputies! I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Alimony for Children and Other Family Maintenance (Project Registration No. 0010) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[13:26:41]] For 232 Decision taken. For 232. Dear National Deputies! According to the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 11th, the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be closed. I declare the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the seventh call closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, may I remind you that in accordance with article 83 of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation will begin its work on Tuesday, February 5. Thank you for your work and for seeing me.
