ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:54]] It was registered in the 365 National Deputies Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Osukhovsky Oleg Ivanovich. Let's congratulate Oleg Ivanovich on his birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few announcements. I'm asking you to listen. I would like to inform you that President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine has invited the leaders of all the MP factions and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to meet. Such a meeting will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 2 p.m. 30 minutes in the office of the President of Ukraine. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine report on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Union of My Oblon in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My Obolon is the leader of the interfractional MPs' association, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Mikhailovich Briginz. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements by authorized MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. So I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. The speech is given to the director of the "Fatherland" Jacinyuk faction. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u2	Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! Mr. Head, before I speak, I would like you to give clear information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine about whether there will be a meeting of opposition factions with the President of Ukraine? Last week we demanded that such a public meeting take place. And what I'm asking you to do in this presentation is let me know when it's going to be, where it's going to be, and whether it's going to be at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u3	I've made an announcement now. I've made a full announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Head. We hope that such a meeting will primarily be public, transparent, in the presence of the media. And Ukraine will hear about what's going on in the country, and Victor Janukovic will not only hear, but respond to what's going on in the walls of both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and what's going on in every Ukrainian house. To that end, it is essential for the head of the Ukrainian State to become President at least in time and realize that it is up to him how the country will continue to develop. And as an opposition, we have a list of questions to Viktor Yanukovich and to the majority who are obliged to make the decisions needed for the people of Ukraine. I'd like to start with the numbers. Yesterday there was another improvement, which is an improvement that is projected to be negative 10 percent of industrial production. The decline in industrial production in Ukraine over the last five months has been 10 percent and, by the way, it's in those areas, and in those areas where the Party of Regions, like a party that has the largest industrial capital, has support and has its own companies. Dear majority, we're talking to you about what's going on in the country, you're releasing people, you're shutting down factories, you're reducing the country's GDP, you're reducing the opportunity for Ukraine to develop the Ukrainian economy. The other one. We have an incredibly important question to President Yanukovic concerning the European integration of Ukraine. There are 3 of these and 3 of those that have to be done. And I'm going to start with one of the main points is this point about stopping political persecution and liberating Yulia Timoshenko. This question will arise at our meeting and we want Viktor Janukovic to give a clear answer when and in what terms the three criteria for signing the agreement with the European Union will be resolved and in what way Julia Timoshenko will be released. In particular, I would like to point out that Yulia Timoshenko’s health is today dangerous and that it is necessary to provide medical care to Julia Volodymyrni outside Ukraine in order to resolve this issue. And we will also go separately to all international institutions and Ukrainians to enable us to receive medical assistance from Yulia Timoshenko abroad. Third. We have an election issue. And I would like to point out separately now that the opposition insists on holding elections only at a time when we can invite foreign observers, when we can mobilize our observers, when the authorities will not act on administrative resources as it does in the summer, when we can conduct fair and transparent elections. An honest and transparent election should take place within the terms defined by the committee on the holding of all the provisional elections, namely, October 27, of the current year. This is about holding elections in five districts, where the opposition has stolen a victory, and so is holding elections in Kiev, Kiev City Hall, and Kiev City Council. This is a question that is not being resolved here in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is a matter that must be decided by President Viktor Janukovich of Ukraine and directed to his majority to vote for it. The opposition has repeatedly insisted on making appropriate decisions, but this has not happened, but the authorities have already begun preparations for the elections. So, for example, in the 132 district of Santa Claus, where Arkady Kornatsky won the election and where Arkady Kornatsky received the incredible support of the Santa Clauses, this morning a brigade of 120 british men were sent to take over his company, who are destroying his company, and who are already fighting for Arkady Karnatsky not to go through that area and for the candidate to go through that and other districts. I would like to consider and ask, Mr. Head, to consider this my request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine. Stop political persecution in relation to opposition. You're breaking dozens of criminal cases to drag people into your majority to force people to vote differently to fake elections to destroy democracy in Ukraine. We will fight as an opposition for every MP, for every Ukrainian who voted for this deputy, and we will fight for Ukrainian democracy, and for the right of the people of Ukraine to rule in their own state. And your police, the prosecutor's office, and the court, and your money you stole from the state budget, they won't help you stay in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u5	The Vitaly Klitschak faction, who's speaking? The leader of the faction, National Deputy Vitaly Klitschko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I am sure that there is no need to say that there is indeed a critical situation today in Ukraine. The state of the economy, as the previous reporter said, is really terrible. And the social obligations that the system has assumed are not fulfilled. In this regard, the level of trust in authority is falling rapidly. And the willingness of citizens to protest is increasing. More than a quarter of the citizens claim to be on the street. The example of Turkey shows that anything can happen and a little spark is enough. The authority that is accustomed to irresponsibility and impunity gives rise to daily problems. There's a rumor out there today that there's a "carcase." Yes, indeed, there is great pressure on opposition deputies. A lot of pressure on family, friends. There's a rumor that there's so-called carcases in the impact faction. I want to say again, this is provocation. And the impact faction remains monolithic. Pressure is also spreading to public activists. In particular, the violent fact of the illegal actions against the leader of the BRAV party. First he was disbarred, threatened, and then burned down for defending public activists who protested the destruction of the park. We're transferring the relevant materials to the Attorney General's Office. The time has come for a very serious conversation. And the time has come for responsible decisions. That is why we demand that the President stop hiding and disrespecting people. He must fulfill his duty to personally present the vision of the country's development and to have a meaningful discussion here in Parliament with the deputy corps. [[Applause]] Yet we see that the President does not have such a desire. He is not interested in the outcome because he is not interested in Parliament working as an independent legislative body. Therefore, we are convinced that the culinary meeting of the leaders of the opposition factions with President Yanukovic at the Presidential Administration has no purpose or solution to any problem. [[Applause]] Dialogue remains the best way to ensure that Parliament works. We have an example of this: the preparation of the laws necessary for European integration and the visa-free regime with the European Union, the working group of authorities and oppositions worked on them, all the necessary changes were made, and then these laws would even be given a constitutional majority in the hall. We demand that this procedure be implemented in addition to all the laws that are important for the economy, social policy and human rights. A group with equal representation from power and opposition should prepare these drafts for consideration, then the work, only then, will be effective. And then there won't be any reason to block Parliament if they don't go through the bills several times to replace money with paper. There will be no fraud with the appointment of elections, and there will be no parliament's work as an accomplice to depriving MPs of their mandate. Parliament should work not on lobby laws, which are favourable to the President's environment, but on those that are needed by the people today. That's right. Consider the issue of pension reform and just pension insurance, the question of channelling budget resources not to the needs of the authorities — education, medicine, social protection, tax cuts. The pressure on the economy. All these decisions are simple and clear. All it takes is desire and will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u8	My first words to the voters who voted for the Communist Party are to those who practice the principles of social justice. My words-reference to this very category are explained by the fact that in these days we are preparing to celebrate the memorable dates. At the beginning of July, it is 95 years old from the day of the establishment of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and tomorrow it will be exactly 20 years old, when despite the anti-communist hysteria the illegal anti-constitutional Communist Party of Ukraine was restored. I refer to those who were in the lava of the party, to those who are today, to all who, along with the Communists, were building a socialist society. We are proud because we have created powerful foundations during our activities, which still serves as a reserve for the development of an independent state. They can deny the opponents, and of course they will say, ‘ What have you achieved? ’ In answer to this question, I will ask them another question: What did the so-called Democrats achieve in 22 years of the development of an independent state? If the Communists have not achieved anything, why can’t you go to the 1991 level today? Because in gross domestic product, we today have only 63 percent of what Soviet Ukraine has produced in its last years of socialist construction. After agricultural production, we came close to just 82 percent of what agriculture, the socialist agriculture, did in 1991. We haven't reached the indicators in both industrial production and any indicators that we don't take, of course, we don't have that level. We should be proud and proud that under the direction of the Communists, all the ethnic Ukrainian lands were gathered together in unity. We've trashed the territory, we've collected it. Unlike the "loving friends," which you recall in 2009, unfortunately, they blew up part of the Black Sea shelf that was located near Snake Island and handed it over to Romania. My second appeal is to all voters. I would like to say a few words about the events that are taking place in Parliament and why we are not working, and more specifically why opposition is not allowing us to work. And it doesn't make it possible for them to get what they thought they wanted, and when they got there, they got scared. Because by their actions, they really made everyone meet the constitutional requirement for a personal vote. And here, when they saw that there was a quantity in the session room that was needed to adopt the laws that were needed, they began to invent blockades under one or the other. One of the things is, let's meet with the President. But as far as I know, and that's probably what everyone knows, that kind of meeting with the President is happening alone, not just together, you go there and you meet. What other meetings do you need? My third appeal was to those voters who voted in favour of the so - called opposition. Please tell the honourable voters, have you given the right to those whom you have delegated to Parliament not to work but to block and not allow Parliament to work? I don't think you had that order, and more than that, think about the numbers. All of us, during our work in this vocation, have made nearly 2,000 legislative initiatives, of which only 45 have become laws. So for what time will we continue to carry out such a demarcation? And a few words about what was needed and what they wanted, and they're planning to do a faction of Communists. This is certainly what we would like to see those more than 30 drafts on the anti-crisis agenda discussed in the session room and supported. We look forward to receiving the support of the draft law on the abolition of pension reform, which will be considered tomorrow. We look forward to your support for the so - called health reform. And you know, on Sunday we celebrated the day of the health worker, we did sociological surveys: 87 percent of the population is not satisfied with the reform that's going on. We're in charge of eliminating the debt on salary and we're hoping, and we're asking you to put in a second reading a bill concerning the liquidation of this debt and the payment of pennies and fines to those who don't pay it. And as I finish my speech, I would like to go back to where I started. I want to give you a pretty good example of oral folk creativity. When we were doing pre-election agitation, one of the fences said, "return socialism." On the second day, there was a sign that said, "Socialism wasn't there." And then the third word is "return what happened." And I hope we get him back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u9	The Party of the Regions faction, National Deputy Levchenko. I've made a declaration to the People's Deputy Levchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u10	Good morning, national MPs! First, I'd like to go to the television set, to the Ukrainians about what's happening from time to time in this room. In Ukraine, one people and two languages are fact. And that has our strength, that has our competitive advantage. I speak both Ukrainian and Russian fluently. I think it's Russian because it's family to me, as it is to a lesser extent, to three tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens. And so as long as the Russian language is not a second national language in Ukraine, as long as there is no respect in this room for the language of millions of Ukrainian citizens, I will be speaking only Russian from this high rostrum, and that is where I stand. And when I or someone else in this room is prevented from speaking Russian, it will be disrespectful to millions of Russian - speaking Ukrainian citizens. And that's why I'm addressing you, Your Honor Chairman. Vladimir Vasiljevic, put to the vote the issue of the Rules, in accordance with the Rules, of removing those who prevent their colleagues from speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u11	Although. Although I personally would not like to do so because I am sure that most of the rooms are patriots of Ukraine. And we all want to see Ukraine as a strong, democratic, prosperous Power in which its citizens will live comfortably. But there is a way for each faction to achieve these high goals. And when we talk about these ways, the discussion begins. That's why we have Parliament from the word “parlare” to talk because there is a debate here, and that is democracy. But there is a basic principle of democracy — that of subjugating a minority to the majority. And if these concepts are replaced, there's an expression: no. Very eloquent expression: No more, no worse dictatorship than the dictatorship of the majority, it can only be a minority dictatorship. What happens in this sessional room for half a year is the rude, aggressive imposition of a minority's will on most people. And we cannot allow those who know the history to remember, to follow examples, not to go too far. Once upon a time, at the first assembly of the Councils, there was one shout: "There is such a party." And it was very expensive then it cost our people. Therefore, we cannot allow Ukraine to jump into such a scenario. Bye. If so, it might be a question of the effectiveness of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council. I do not rule out gentlemen from the opposition minority seeking it. But I want to ask you, do you need a new election today? Is there a parliamentary campaign for voters today? At a time when the authorities are doing their best to find funds to increase social benefits, pensions, benefits, raise budget wages, block Parliament's work and slow society's development. That's why we're talking to you. First. Return to constructive work, participate in the adoption of laws that are so necessary for the country today. Second. The President sent an annual message to the Supreme Council. The message sets out the main orientations, key trends and key models for the development of society, both in the economy and in social policies. And we call upon you to participate in an in-depth, professional discussion on these principles, rather than an outcry to impose political pressure on the President's manner of addressing it. We care about the essence, not the form of the delivery. If you don't return to constructive work, I assure you, we have a party of power, a coalition, full responsibility for the country. We'll do it without you. We will do what our electorate has given us, with or without you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u12	Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u13	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished voters! Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Today, from the faction, we're going to talk about the political persecutions and repressions that are taking place against the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, against all the people who have their positions and do not perish under today's regime. As of today, I've been talking about this from the rostrum of Parliament, for about a month and a half, as in Kiev there is a hunt for members and supporters of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, when they're being tracked down at the entrances of a group of people who have already. We are fully aware that these people are associated with law enforcement, caste - pounding, skull - breaking. And then there's no way the police are investigating these attacks. And in fact, the most cynical thing is that Vladimir Karassa, who is not a political activist at all, where a brother of a political activist whose skull has been broken, the police have classified it as minor bodily harm and are not investigating anything. Today, there's been an escalation of various totally premeditated criminal cases that are being opened up against the Freedom Actors. Especially in Kiev, especially on May 18, the authorities want to turn everything upside down. Now it's not these thugs in charge of Wadik Rumin who are to blame for those provocations and beatings of journalists, but today it's all going wrong. And it turns out that freedom activists are responsible for these provocations, and today, as some journalists have seen, Wadik Rumin walks freely through Kiev, through various entertainment centers, even though he's actually on a non-refoulement contract and is supposed to be sitting in the White Church. This is justice. We know what's going on today in the city of Brovary in Kiev, where absolute impunity is going on, because there's a local prince, a feudal masseuse, a prime minister who took over the park. And the people who protested against this park today, they were put under house arrest by the "liberators" including today. And today the courts are making decisions that are totally unjust and criminal under the rule of executive power. Today we know what's going on all over Ukraine, when activists are being questioned, pulled out of student dormitories, out of their apartments at 6 a.m., pulling hooks in better NCCD traditions. All of this is happening under the direct direction of today’s authorities, as tired as all the crimes committed and committed by the authorities are not being investigated and ignored. In particular, I would like to say that the events in Ternopol that took place on May 9th, where, as the regionals say, veterans were beaten. By the way, there were no veterans, there were nine people being arrested, while the D.A. admitted that it was freedom activists, including MPs, who were injured. At the same time, no policeman was drawn to any even disciplinary responsibility. At the same time, in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, where people gathered to honor the victims of World War II without totalitarian symbols, they were brutally beaten by local bandits and no one suffered any punishment thereafter. Today, there are various provocations against "Freedom" throughout Ukraine. We already know the situation in Chercas when, on direct instructions, under the cover of the local administration, such as the governor of the so-called Tolub and his deputies, a group of young men in T-shirts with the title "The Battle of the Jews!" Walking around the city, trying to show off the freebies. At the same time, we've documented it, we've documented it, but this fact of inflaming inter-national hostility has never been noticed or investigated by law enforcement authorities. So I want to talk to representatives of the Jewish community, especially those who want to gather the European Jewish Parliament at the end of this month. Please note these facts, as the authorities do not want to investigate the facts of such anti - Semitic actions. I would like to say that there is a new technology that is being applied by the authorities today. Well, it's actually in their traditions. The so-called, remember, were in the 1950s and 1940s, the special forces of the NCWD, who in the West of Ukraine walked, disguised as drunkards, destroyed the peaceful population, and did so on behalf of the rebels. So today, this technology is still being applied by the authorities. And it's very simple. They're gathering their goons who are attacking journalists who are just attacking people, as if they're screaming at nationalistic slogans, and then they're putting it on as a nationalist behavior. By the way, I want to say, especially to journalists, believe me, we have information that this is not the first provocation that took place in Kiev with journalist George Herman, it will continue, it will continue, it will continue, it will work, and so be careful not to accept these provocations, to find what the authorities are doing to discredit Freedom. So I'd like to say one more thing for the rest of us. There is now an attack on one of the fundamental democratic rights -- the right to peaceful assembly. Today, authorities want to ban peaceful congregations, pies, demonstrations, especially the new initiative that they have devised, it turns out, you can't walk now, they plan to do something like that, so that you can't go into action in medical masks, scarves, and hoodies. Well, first of all, don't tell us how to dress, that's first of all, and the citizens how to dress. And secondly, I understand that these boys and girls in masks that you're repressing, beating and putting in jail are your terrible nightmare. But believe me, be careful, these are the people who are going to be future ministers and future deputies, because these are the people who are fighting for justice, who are going to these actions not for "baba" and, believe me, who are going to avenge you for all the injustice and hatred that you're doing today. And as Mikola Mihnowski said, the founder of Ukrainian nationalism, "Everyone who has an unbroken heart will answer us, and whoever has a broken heart, we will call." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. I'm asking you a list of the issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making, today you have. As you can see, the schedule of meetings for today provides for many important issues. So I'm going to make an offer to work today before the agenda is completed. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. People's deputies please calm down, sit down. Mr. Supper, please sit down. I ask you to sit down, prepare for the vote. We'll vote later. Don't turn it into a question. You have to give and you have to give to the factions, sit down! Please, let's work. Enough questions and enough lines! Sit down! I ask the National Deputies to support the proposal to work today until the day-to-day issues are finalized. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:35:27]] For 203 Against 3, held – 45, not voted – 144. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 166, Fatherland - 3, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional - 5. So let's get to the point. Consideration is given to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2259a) on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (to ensure the transfer of functions from the state registration of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs). May I put it to a vote? One minute from the factions. Please, strike faction, which one of you? Rosenko. One minute from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, we see a number of bills, including government-related changes and additions to the State Budget of Ukraine. The position of the strike faction on this issue is clear and unambiguous. We require the government today to implement the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013. And according to the first quarter, which ended three months ago, he made full changes to the State Budget Act on the increase, first of all, in the salaries of budget workers, in the increase in pension salaries, in the indexation of social resources and in the resolution of the financing of budgetary institutions. For the rest of the draft amendments to the State Budget Act, the strike faction will not vote until now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u16	Right. Please, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Rudzkowski, national deputy of Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer. B Considering that we have a lot of bills to consider, and the second is that we haven't worked for a week, let's raise questions about the inclusion in the message of the day, Vladimir Vasilovich, vote all together, not individually, but vote together. Because, dear colleagues, if we include in the message of the day when we begin the session, all a few thousand bills are included, and now we're just wasting time, Vladimir Vasilovich. They need to be processed, concluded, and then discussed. So, dear fellows, let's step forward and not waste any time in vain -- let's vote all together on the message of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, the "Fatherland" faction of the people's MP, Tears, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! Dear Media! Today, it is proposed to include in the first reading a number of drafts relating to changes to the 2013 State Budget. Considering that all the bills in the Committee on Budget Issues have not been considered, but will only be considered tomorrow, the faction of Fatherland considers the drafts to be premature. These are the numbers 2259th, 2290th, 2229th, 2217th and 2245th. In addition, I ask you to consider a number of drafts that I have submitted as a subject of the legislative initiative in January, February, and March, and that are not under consideration today. There are also changes to the State Budget Act 2013, amendments to the Budget Code and other budgetary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Freedom Union, Michalchi's National MP, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u21	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Dear colleagues, given that a recent report has already been made, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" strongly opposes the inclusion in the agenda of our day session of a series of bills to amend the state budget. In particular, because they increase the financing of a government apparatus whose purpose is not justified and is not supported. Secondly, because as a source of additional expenditure coverage, we point out that the National Bank of Ukraine is doing something that we still have a 16 billion dollar commitment before the government, and that further increase in the speculative provision of public budget expenditure sources is evidenced by the low professional competence of the government that prepares similar bills. Then, the faction firmly opposes the inclusion of so poorly prepared drafts of normative acts in the agenda of the day session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u22	Has everyone spoken to the factions? Everyone made a statement. And now I put it to a vote, and you stand your ground, and we vote or we don't vote. I am voting on draft Act No. 2259a amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2013 (to ensure the transfer of functions with the national registration of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs) for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:42:30.]] For 221 Against 79, held – 16, not voted – 83. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on draft Act No. 2055-A amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for the financing of state registers). For inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:43:12]] For the 220. Against 63, held – 35, not a vote – 81. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Law 2695 amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (on Rent Relations and Prevention of Damage and Loss of Rental Property). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:43:55]] For 326 Against 33, held – 2, not voted – 40. Decision taken. The factions. We're the ones who moved into civil order. There's no motive. I am voting on draft Act No. 2591 amending certain Ukrainian military reserve laws. For inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Let's vote. [[10:44:48]] For 366 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 38. Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on draft Act No. 2850 amending the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the Presidential Order on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:45:36]] For 341 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 62. Decision taken. The factions. I am voting for the day-to-day session of Act No. 2015a amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities (for care allowance). Please vote. [[10:46:22]] For 371 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 32. Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on the draft Law 2181a for the inclusion in the agenda of amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the facilitation of the transfer of agricultural land to ownership and use. Please vote. [[10:47:09]] For 224 Against 123, held – 11, not voted – 45. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (restructuring budgetary debt). [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! A few days ago, I was denied registration of the law, motivated by what was being discussed in the Supreme Council, was not accepted and could be reinstated at the next session. Now under number 2290a, the draft law, which was considered in the Ukrainian Parliament at number 2846, is absolutely identical to the text of the draft law, 2846 – the law was not adopted, rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a bill that regulates the relevant rules is possible only at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We cannot vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u24	Heard that, didn't you? I'm not putting the law that's rejected, I'm putting the new law. I am voting on draft Law 2290a, amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 (restructuring budgetary debt) for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:49:43]] For 228 Against - 129, held - five, not voted - 42. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Deputies! You're not at the market! What are you yelling at? Can't you hear yourself screaming? Deputies! As there is a question, let us ask one question at a time. You can't hear yourself, so you're yelling? What you're showing there. What are you? I beg of you, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Qaeda. National deputy Qaeda, don't scream, tell the microphone what you want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u25	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Non-personal voting by the factions of the Party of the Regions has now been recorded from the press balcony. Therefore, under the Rules, we now demand that the vote be suspended and that the vote be held. The principle of personal voting was violated. Several journalists have recorded this fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u26	Name a nonpersonal name. Is that a last name? When it is, you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u27	It will now be installed. Volodymyr Vasilovich, for that reason, is proposed to stop voting now to establish a non-personal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u28	I am voting on draft Law 2929a for the inclusion in the agenda of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013, 2229a (for the clarification of sources of debt relief from differences in tariffs on thermal energy, central water supply and water supply). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:42]] For 224 Against – 76, held – 9, did not vote – 87. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, name a name that didn't vote with your card. I've given my word to Kydi. No last name, we. It'll be a name, I'll put it on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, I'll get right on it. Have a seat. People's deputy Qaeda, please. Who? One minute, Mohnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u29	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In the previous vote in favour of bill 2290a, two non-personal ballots were recorded – Road and White.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u30	Name your names.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u31	I called him Road and White.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u32	Is he on the road? Come here, let them look at you. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u33	I remind you of the rule of law. The point is that the names of the MPs who were not absent and for whom they voted should be called names of the deputies who were present and voted for someone. My name is White and Roadside. They were present and voted for others. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u34	White, Roadside. Yes, one minute! Who's out? Who's that? What's your last name? Who's that? Are you sure you're okay? Turn on the microphone, national MP Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u35	Thirty-third constituency, Dniproperty, Roadside. I voted in person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u36	Have a seat. Billie's national deputy. Is it? There's no Billy. What a Billie. Did you vote? White. No, he didn't vote. What's next? Ladies and gentlemen, as we're about to work, let's work as you want to block, block, and we won't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no voting, there's a reason. I would like to vote on the draft Act (No. 2217a) to include in the agenda the amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for the payment of the work of academic and pedagogical workers involved in external independent evaluation). People's deputies, please vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:50]] For 332 Against - 1, held - 27, did not vote - 33. Decision taken. The factions. I am betting on the draft Act (No. 2245a) to be included in the agenda for the amendment of Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 (for the redistribution of expenditure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). People's deputies, please vote. [[10:59:39]] For 228 Against 44, held – 59, not voted – 71. Decision taken. The factions. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 2088a, 2088a-1) to be included in the agenda of the day session to amend section XI, paragraph 1, of the Civil Protection Code for the transfer of the deadline for entry into force. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:00:41]] For 292 Against 33, held 38, did not vote 38. Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on the draft Law (2029a) to include in the agenda of the daily session on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to include the income tax of natural persons in the relevant local budgets for the actual location of the structural and separate branches of the legal person). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:01:44]] For 199 Against - 1, held - 35, did not vote 157. The decision is not taken. I'll tell you, when this part doesn't vote, they don't yell "Damn!" How don't all these people vote, this is "Damn!" Well, let's have a civil vote. I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 2154a) to be included in the agenda of the daily session to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement (for the planning of purchases for rail transport). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:50]] For 226 Against 42, held – 74, not voted – 60. The factions. We've seen it. I'm betting on the vote on the 2020 Bill of Decrees to include in the agenda the 70th anniversary of the break-in by the Soviet armies of the German line of defense "Otan" and the liberation of the city of Melitopol. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:03:42]] For 283 Against 0, holding back, 14, not voting, 98. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote, the honourable MPs, the bill of decree (2239a) for inclusion in the agenda of the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Zaporozhye region. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:04:34]] For 336 Against 30, held – 2, not voted – 34. Decision taken. The factions, please. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues. It was a matter of principle that we should organize our work in order to vote in favour of the work before the agenda was fully exhausted in view of the vast number of laws that were not adopted and on the agenda. Therefore, we would like to reposition, as some of the deputies have not focused. To put to the vote the question that today's work should be until we have fully considered the entire agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u38	I translate in national language because you haven't heard. The Chechtov National MP made a motion to put a procedural question to the vote: Continue the session until the agenda of the day is fully reviewed. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[11:06:33]] For 217 See? Why are you yelling? And that's it. In favour of 217, against 37, held – 19, did not vote – 128. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is being considered. In accordance with the requirements of part one of article 162 of the Rules, a full discussion of the report takes place. Thus, such a procedure is proposed. In order to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Ukraine, within 10 minutes, to answer the question, within 3 minutes, for a co-report to the Head of the Committee on Budgetary Questions, within 5 minutes, for answers to the Committee's questions, within 3 minutes, for a co-report to the Head of the Court of Auditors, within 5 minutes, for answers to questions, within 3 minutes, for statements from the deputy factions of the National Deputies, within 25 minutes and for the final word of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, within 2 minutes. An hour later, there is an offer to consider this matter according to the Rules. Please, reporter of Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Government has submitted to the Supreme Council a draft report on the implementation of the 2012 budget. I would like to point out that last year’s budget implementation was carried out in an unfavourable external economic environment and a fragile recovery of the world’s economy, and we are dependent on world markets. And what I'd like to say is that the global economy declined by 3.2 percent against the 4 percent forecast, and the Eurosonic countries in general went down from 0.6 percent to last year. They also had a negative impact on the development of the Ukrainian economy of lowering prices for black metals in the world market by 11.4 percent. Despite bottlenecks, government reforms aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Ukraine's economy have managed to keep the trend from rising. Early growth in Ukraine last year was 0.2 percent, which is because Europe fell to negative 0.6. Last year, nominal GDP rose by 8.2 percent and made up 1.4 trillion dollars. The economy worked in a low-inflation environment in 2012. Over the past year, consumer prices decreased by 0.2 percent until December. Against the backdrop of low inflationary dynamics of social standards and wage increases, the real increase in wages by 14.4 percent has been the highest in six years. The stability of the national monetary unit, as well as the use of measures aimed at strengthening the stability and development of the banking system, contributed to the further restoration of the population’s confidence in the banking system and the expansion of the bank’s resource base. Last year’s total deposit volume increased by 80.6 billion dollars, or 16.4 percent. Ukraine’s lending to the economy increased by 13.3 billion dollars. Despite the complex external conditions of the functioning of the Ukrainian economy and the low inflation of effective tax policy and tax administration, the revenue component of the budget increased in 2012. The budget growth plus 10 percent, i.e. up to 346.1 billion dollars, to the general government budget fund 8.9 percent to 289.6 billion dollars. The government's efforts have provided compensation for the added value of 46 billion dollars last year, up from 7.4 percent in 2011. Automated damages amounted to $23.2 billion or nearly 50.5 percent. Despite the negative trends in the global economy, the government has provided funding for higher social standards, social initiatives by the President, pension expenditure, so the government budget has increased by 62.2 billion dollars, or 18.7 percent by 2011, almost 400 billion dollars. Expenditures from the State Budget General Fund for 2012 increased by 56.3 billion dollars or by almost 20 percent to 343.6 billion dollars. The government provided funding at the appropriate level of social expenditure and cash social expenditure at the general government budget increased by 44E.3 billion in 2011 to 272.78 billion. Under conditions that have contributed to the overall deterioration of the external environment, fiscal policy in 2012 has been geared towards supporting and developing the economy, and the government’s capital expenditure has been directed at almost 30 billion dollars. Expenditures were incurred to support and develop agriculture in the amount of 6.5 billion dollars, coal and other solid fuel industries worth nearly 13 billion dollars, a road economy worth 12.6 billion dollars. In support of NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine has spent nearly 20 billion dollars. In addition to direct funding, the government has provided substantial support to operators by providing tax benefits. According to the State Tax Office, the 2012 deficit was 48.7 billion dollars. According to the State Customs Service, taxes of 42.9 billion dollars have not been paid in the past year. The amount of funding for regional development has been increased. From the government budget to the local budgets, transfers totalled 125.8 billion dollars, 32.1 percent more than last year. We have subsidies for the provision and social protection of the population, which are listed within registered liabilities of 43.1 billion dollars. That's 18.7 more than last year, in 2011. Subsidies for socio-economic development of individual areas have been funded by 2.6 billion dollars. In 2012, for the first time, the National Regional Development Fund was set up, which was used in an amount of $1 billion. The government budget deficit in 2012 is much lower than in many highly developed countries in the world. The need for timely social expenditure and development costs in the context of slowing down the global economy has led to a government budget deficit of $53.4 billion or 3.8 percent of gross domestic product. IMF estimates that the expected budget deficit in 2012 remains high in many highly developed countries. In Japan, up to 10 percent, in the United States, 8.7 percent, in Spain 7, in France, 4.7 percent of GDP. Ukraine’s government debt in 2012 was maintained within the limits set by law. Yes, toward the end of 2012, the debt amounted to nearly 400 billion dollars, 27.8 billion less than the threshold set by the State Budget Act and adjusted in accordance with article 15 of the Budget Code. The state and state-guaranteed debt amounted to 515.5 billion dollars or 36.6 percent of GDP, which is economically safe and meets the criteria set out in the Budget Code, i.e. not more than 60 percent of gross domestic product. The government has submitted a draft regulation and a package of materials for consideration by the Supreme Council. And by decision of the Budget Committee, and by proposals from the government, we propose to approve the 2012 State Budget Implementation Report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u40	People's deputies please sign up. Three minutes to the show. I don't know what you're talking
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u41	Now. You got it, you got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u42	I don't think the Chief of the Supreme Council is going to be chasing MPs and ministers who've had a few drinks. I left now, the first deputy to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions. The second faction, what? The Freedom faction and the Fatherland faction requested a recess to hold a consultation. I announce a break of 30 minutes, 30 minutes, let's get some rest. At 11.50, let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u44	I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I invited the Minister of Finance for 16 hours to report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2012 State Budget. Now he's going to educate the First Deputy Minister, and he's going to report his proposals at 4:00 to us on this. Dear National Deputies, the draft Decree (registration number) is under consideration. Please note that the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has been established. I would like to vote on this issue on a reduced basis. Please vote deputies. [[11:54:46]] For 139 Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] This isn't the first time we've voted, we've voted 10 times. So, take it easy. What's the point in yelling? Igor, Igor, you're yelling more. What are you yelling at? I'm asking the people's deputies to come to the hall. Temporary commission, we always work it out. I'm asking for a minute from the factions. Please, Rosenko, strike faction. Then there's Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u45	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Calla. Vladimir Vasilovich, there's an offer for you. We're doing more or less normal work right now. Let's not tear down the hall, not provoke any part of our hall to ruin the situation in the hall. So we voted, we didn't support a decision, we went on. So let's just give up a little bit of this process of constant return to the questions that we've been looking at. This will normalize the situation in the hall and allow us to work in a peaceful way on the order of the day. So I propose, in this case, the position of the Faction Impact on all drafts is one and clear: we should not turn the Council into a buttoning mechanism, we are against short-term legislative procedures. We have a thorough and professional view of them here in the hall. Therefore, there is a suggestion to move on to a full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u46	It's not a bill, it's a temporary commission -- 150 votes. Who's against this committee to get the MPs to work. What's the big deal? I understand when the law really needs to be considered under the full law. And when we complete some law and one tape, and we discuss it for 10 minutes, we lose an hour. Please, Miroshnichenko, please, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u47	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, I propose that we finally return to the Rules and abide by them. Why is there a full discussion procedure? So all the national MPs know what they're voting for, what they're pushing the buttons for. That's question number one. We're all trying to deal with the reduced procedure today, and we don't even know the names of the MPs who are initiating the procedure. Question three. A great request, if we have voted and the question has not passed, not to go back to his re-examination, re-voting, because it is a breach of procedure. Similarly, we again violate the Law on the Rules, the changes we have made regarding non-personal voting. Is there a record? Please, we stop the vote, we go back to him. And in fact, all of these violations of procedure, the rules of the Rules are what leads to when we have the first deputy minister of finance in the rostrum in an inadequate state. This is the collapse of parliamentaryism that begins.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u48	Zarubinsky National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! There's a job, and there's a job simulation. Work simulation is often like work. When a full procedure is used for a bill or for a draft ruling, in which two words or two sentences are used, it is not for work or for general discussion. For the full procedure provided by the author or coauthor for 10 minutes, according to the Rules. And we've often seen a man who didn't write the bill itself, and signed it, 9.5 minutes says anything, coming out of propaganda and advocacy rhetoric, and then half a minute says, please support. We need to use the full procedure where there are systemic bills, where there is a need for professional discussion, where there are technical projects, and there is everyone in Parliament. We need to use a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u50	Did everyone say that? I beg of you, National MP Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u51	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, first of all, it's very good that you invited the minister for the fourth hour instead of pretending that nothing had happened and continued to consider the budget issue. Thank you for that. And secondly, this is a request to you, but the issue of compliance with the Supreme Council Rules is the main one. When we do it clearly, we show all Ukrainian citizens that we are law-abiding, that the authorities are law-abiding, and so the citizens should be. When we violate this, we also give everyone else the opportunity to ignore the laws, for the Rules are the law. We voted once, it didn't work out, well, I think there's two minutes to talk to the reporter and there's no ten to use, there's nothing to worry about. It's much worse to put into practice the possibility of breaking the law, because we're going to get into lawlessness, anarchy and dictatorship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, when the MPs make a proposal that the half-room hasn't yet come to the voting room, it's not a law, it's a procedural matter. Why are we wasting time? What are we up to here? Let me put to the vote the question of Crimea under a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote. Let's talk about this. [[12:01:39]] For a hundred and Against 57, held – 8, not voted – 169. Decision taken. The factions, please. Who's going to report? I'd like to ask the National Deputy, Ms. Nenetecka Olena Anatoliyevna, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! I propose to your attention a draft decree establishing an ad hoc interim commission on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[B in m in s a l in]] The purpose of this commission is to respect the State guarantees, status and powers of our autonomy, taking into account its specificities, as provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution, which are provided for in the Act “On the Approval of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. The Commission will develop draft laws that deal with the constitutional and legal status of autonomy, its authority and its financial autonomy. And to monitor that the laws that we are enacting here in the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine comply with the laws of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We already have experience with the work of such a commission, which has successfully proven itself during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the previous convening. Over a year and a half, we have drafted and submitted a number of very important legislative acts to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This includes amending the Tax Code, which will allow for greater development of domestic tourism and create an enabling environment for the treatment and recovery of our citizens. Thus, we have been able to lay a solid foundation for further legislative work for the benefit of the Crimea, which is for the benefit of the whole of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the very idea of establishing such a body in Parliament has brought together and joined the Crimea representatives of all the MPs, which is a guarantee of the success of our future work. All the Crimeans, Majorists, Listers, representatives of all political factions, as well as outside factions, expressed their desire to feel on the Special Temporary Commission. At the same time, however, I would like to draw your attention to the faction that on 6 June Arsenius Yatsenuk, the leader of the Fatherland faction, withdrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u54	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u55	On 6 June, however, Arsenius Yatzenuk, the leader of the Fatherskina faction, withdrew from its membership the deputies Ludmila Denisov and Andrei Senchenko. This political force is now represented on the Commission by Deputy Mustafa Jamilev. In turn, the faction of the Company Ukraine proposed a candidate, Sergey Topalov. Dear colleagues! Please support the establishment of an interim commission on Crimea, subject to changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Welcome to the committee, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on May 22, 2013, the Committee considered the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Imported by Ukrainian National Deputies Netecka, Dzos, Dach, at number 2574 from 19.03. In 2013 The Commission is proposed to establish, by analogy with the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which was created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its previous sixth call to address the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and was involved in the drafting of draft laws, other legal acts of Ukraine relating to the constitutional and legal status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the legal regime of property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the financial autonomy of autonomy, etc. The commission is scheduled for the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call, and the report of the Commission is proposed to be heard not later than six months before the date of the completion of the terms of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. To the composition of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Crimea proposes to elect 14 national deputies: the head of the commission, Dejce Boris Davidovich, the faction of the Party of the Regions; the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Mokov Alexander Borisovich, the Faction of the Political Party, Mr. Vitaliy Klitzka; the members of the committee, Mr. Briko Sergija Borisovich, Mr. Grub Grigory Ivanovich, Mr. Jemiljeva Yuliyovich, Ms. Vitalina Oleksijovna, Ms. Serliyevich, Ms. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u58	Is There a Need to Discuss? Please sign up for factions. Vitalia Klitschka, People's Deputy Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u59	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Capplin, national deputy of Poltava. You know, of course, our political power supports the creation of such a commission. But at the same time, we would like to focus on the fact that similar institutions need to be created in a slightly different order. We should first create a number of temporary investigation committees to investigate the involvement of national MPs and experts of the incredible abuses and the incredible corruption that is taking place on the peninsula today. We know that today virtually everyone living in Crimea is being robbed. We know that they have taken away the opportunity to live truly in a rich land. The former tourist pearl and Ukraine’s hope of rebuilding the tourist industry is in fact being destroyed and destroyed by those in power. At the same time, criminals are deprived of the right to have proper authority by falsifying elections. Elections in Yalta. This is a direct confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u60	Please, Freedom Union, Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u62	Please give it to the Swiss national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u63	The Democratic faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will not support this draft decision. Moreover, we have today called off the application to Edward Leonov, who was previously proposed to be part of the Temporary Special Commission on Crimea, for the following reason. Rules are in force and there are no laws on temporary special ones. The interim commission of inquiry provides for a procedure whereby factions do not know what issues will be put into the agenda and, in fact, propose the inclusion of their members of the faction, deputies to a commission or other commission. In fact, such a temporary special commission is trying to cement that way of nonexistent autonomy within Ukraine. And today, the Party of Regions with its satellites, the communists, are using Crimea as an opportunity to set an example for the federalization of Ukraine. At this time, I confirm that, at this time, a letter was sent to the chairman, the initiator of this commission, at the signature of the head of Oleg Tsagnibok's faction, of recall from the Edward Leonov commission. And this composition of the commission with such questions will not be supported. At present, the personal composition of those working in the Crimea is a matter of urgency. In particular, a conference was held yesterday to protect the rights of construction investors. I would like to remind you that the head of the construction company, the group of the Consul construction companies, who has deceived hundreds and thousands of construction investors, is today the head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It is in order to cover up similar schemes in Crimea, Odessa, and other cities that are aimed at creating this temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u64	Party of regions, National Deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u65	Good afternoon! I'm asking you to pass the word to Crane Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u66	Please, Vitaly Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u67	The temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will be working on draft laws, drafts of other acts which relate to the constitutional and legal status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, delegation of powers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, approval of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and amendment of its legal regime of property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The draft decree is perfectly normal, it can be adopted. And I urge the deputies to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u68	Please, Fatherland faction, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear friends! Well, that's just the example when we say that there's a decision that shouldn't be discussed for a long time -- accepted, created a commission and well. Why, in fact, do we create a commission? Are not all the questions proposed by the authors of the decision defined in the Constitution of Ukraine? Is this not the question of what happened when we accepted it in 1996? Why are we looking at all of this right now? Why is this being done? And that's just an example of how small it doesn't seem to be a question, but it actually raises a huge layer of questions and it really stands for the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and all that. But as it stands, it stands there, for example, still violates the rights of the indigenous people of the Crimean Tatar people, which are still being violated by the majority of the Ukrainian people, or Ukrainians. In fact, it is a territory incompatible with these two nations and it is a big question, but everyone, this commission will not be considering these matters. It seems to me that all the questions that this committee has created should be addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's national policy, first and foremost, to protect the indigenous peoples of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u70	The Communist Party faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk Please. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I asked for a word in connection with some of the colleagues here who mentioned the Communist Party of Ukraine. We thank them for not forgetting about us. And what we do with the position of Communists in relation to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is that we care about the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, that this beautiful land and its working multinational people have all the legislators for their social and economic development, and that it is at the height that each region should have. As far as this committee is concerned, we already have experience, because it was created and acted in a previous call, and really the question concerning such an administrative unit as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was being considered by a temporary special commission. We support it. And I would like to take into account that the Communist faction recommends it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft ruling. Sit in your seats, then you'll be yelling that they haven't got time to vote. I will not vote any more because the deputies say that there is no need to violate the Rules. I'm betting on a draft Resolution (Registration No. 2574) on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:16:22]] For 247 Against 40, held – 18, not voted – 85. Decision taken. The factions. There are factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your attention on the draft law on ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic. There's an offer to consider when it's 16 o'clock, and then we'll take a look at it, okay? It's a deal. Let's go to chapter two. Break, we've already had a break. We'll be working in two hours. Who's gonna whistle? The draft Law (Registration No. 2405) amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Housing Tax Code (second reading) is being introduced. We've been looking into it with you. I want to notice. I'll report it. And then you'll spread your hands and we'll vote. I would like to point out that on May 23 of this year, when you consider this issue, you do not have the opportunity here, you remember that it was here to put to the vote all the decisions that are taken as a result of the second reading of the bill, in accordance with article 123 of the Rules. In particular, Part One, paragraph 5, of Article 123 of the Rules provides for the decision to return the bill to the Main Committee for further consideration and to resubmit the second reading. And there's a proposal to shorten the time limit for this matter to be considered by the committee. Because it has already been considered. So I want to put this question to a vote. We need to trade. Let's take a minute from the faction. I'd like to exchange my thoughts. Please, strike faction, Rosenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u73	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. We're going back to the old story today that you're forcing us to vote and support the bill. Vote during a so - called exit session in the Bank. Here we have a series of such bills: 2405, 2144, 1177, 2991, 1178 and so on. The position of our faction is clear and clear: there was no such meeting in the Banking, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so we cannot and we do not support any bill and second reading, including to further the committee's second reading. Our procedure is next. We return these bills to re-reading only after considering its Supreme Council of Ukraine in a legitimate way in the first reading, they have the right to exist in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u74	Your position is clear. Who else would like to make a statement? Do I vote? Please, National Deputy Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u75	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head. For starters, please don't twist what happened in the session room. Then, I want to remind you, you put the first bill to the vote, it didn't get enough votes, and then you took those bills off the table. That's exactly what you did. The second question. Those bills were voted on by the outgoing, so-called, "Freedom" meeting, which is considered illegal. And when we had a chance to compromise, we offered our proposals, but today we are talking about how these laws were approved in an unconstitutional way and the All-Ukrainian Union will not vote for them. We're going to take the ballot cards out of the voting slots and we're going to demonstrate our protest in this way. There was no such meeting, it's not legitimate. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u76	All right, and your position. Just don't blame the Head of the Supreme Council, because we voted, in fact, in the second reading, the bill was not supported. But you didn't let me put to the vote the proposal I'm making right now. So I don't need to be accused of perversion. I beg you, the Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. And then there's a party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. First. You're absolutely right, Vladimir Vasilovich, when you ask the question that way. Because really, you didn't have the opportunity at the time, you didn't have to make another proposal that you made today to send this bill back for second reading with a shorter term. Why is this law necessary? I turn to those who oppose him and let our electorates and theirs hear me, including. From July 1, if we do not adopt this law, a person who has two or more apartments, less than 120 meters in length, will pay the tax even if it is less than 120 feet [120 m]. So think of those who do not want to vote — do you support your people or do you not support them? Because he owns his parents' apartment in the village and he has a one-bedroom or two.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Petrenko, the Fatherland faction. Why are we fooling the Ukrainian people? According to this Act, the Final Regulations provide for a shadowy privatisation of the state-owned enterprise Dondiproschacht. This amendment was made in violation of the Rules, and is now being tried in this law. That's the first one. The other one. This law refers to the outgoing so - called ones that were adopted in violation of the Rules in the non - sessional room. We made it clear that these laws cannot be voted for without the first reading in the session room. Therefore, we must not deceive the Ukrainian people and our constituents! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u80	You must tell our voters that you have filed 25 lawsuits with all the courts in Ukraine, and the court has ruled that there has been no abuse or violation of this law. And this is going to be full information for our voters. Please, the Chechetov Party faction and I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, I do not wish to repeat Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's argument, but the law is indeed aimed at the social protection of the equally secure categories of the population. On the other hand, with regard to the procedure, Vladimir Vasiljevic is absolutely right that once we have considered it in the Chamber, the opposition has not given you the opportunity, under the Rules, to put to the vote the question of second reading again. It was therefore quite fair to ask that we should return to the law and put to the vote the question of the wording you had heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u82	Postfaction National Deputy Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Sergey Mishchenko, Kiev. There really is a question in two planes, the first is a violation of the Rules or the adoption of this law. Here, Vladimir Vasilovich, you are right that all possibilities are to use the Rules and send them back to read again. But you see, it's been put on for the second time in a way that it wasn't supported for the first time in a second reading. Here my colleagues were right about illegal privatization. But there is another question. Yes, Adam Ivanovich, you're right about the fact that if two apartments were less than 120 meters away, they would pay the tax. But look at Amendment 14, where it is suggested that everyone will pay one percent, all people whose housing area is not more than 150 feet [240 m]. So for 10 square meters each person will pay for the apartment, that's the question. And so if you send it back for a second read, you have to rework it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u84	All the deputies have spoken. So I'm putting to the vote, I'm asking the attention of the people, the proposal to return the draft Law (registration number 2405) on amending article 265 of the Tax Code of Ukraine (for second-reading housing objects) to the Main Committee for further processing and re-reading, and to shorten the deadline for consideration by the Committee in accordance with article 116 of Part 2 of the Rules. People's deputies, please identify, vote. [[12:27:49]] For 223 Against 7, held – 5, not voted – 86. The decision is not taken. The factions. Is everything civilized? It's civilized. A draft law (Registration No. 1154) on the characteristics of the Sanitation Bank (second reading) is being introduced. I'll tell you what I want, and I'll give you my word. I would like to point out that when decisions were made on this bill in connection with noise in the hall, not all deputies understood the proposal that was put to the vote in accordance with article 123, paragraph 5, of the first part of the Rules, which provided for the possibility of a decision to return the bill to the committee. We have not considered this question for further processing and re-reading. We didn't use that opportunity. And this is the proposal made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Please sign up from the faction, please sign up in a minute. Let's talk. I hear you, Victor Mikhailovich, I can hear you, I'm not deaf. Yes, come on, then, Vitalia Calla, Victor Mikhailovich, please Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u85	Honorable National MPs, honourable chairman, on June 4, this bill was put to the vote twice in the second reading. For the first time in the second reading, the decision was not taken. The second time the Head of the Supreme Council rereaded, the second time the law was not upheld. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill has been rejected. We don't have an item to vote on. Next time he is to be introduced to the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I want to say a few words in essence to the bill. It's like a bill is designed to solve problems in the banking sector. No, nothing like solving the banking sector’s problems, because to solve the problems in the banking sector there is such a tool as selling assets, it is a civilized, open, transparent way of ensuring compliance. This law seeks to create one monopolistic structure that will deal with all of Ukraine's troubled loans. That is why, and in fact, this bill and procedural matters, we have no right to vote for it and we cannot go back to its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u86	Thank you. The Motherland Union, National Deputy Sergei Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, well, Victor Mikhailovich has already said that we have no legitimate reason to go back to this bill. Volodymyr Vasilovich, please read the transcript if you've got something wrong. And now a few words are essentially about this bill. We've already created a recovery bank like this. But this bill is actually some kind of, some kind of a marshmallow. If there's a working bank that's in private ownership and it's got some bad asset, instead of settling these bad assets through reserve repayment, let's say that the sanctions, the introduction of temporary administration into the bank, are offered to deposit these assets into some kind of recovery bank. That's to clean up the private balance. And then this recovery bank is going to work out, without liabilities, it's going to be there, but it's going to be dealing with these bad assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u88	Please, Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u90	The Swiss have a message for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Today, we are dealing with a second one today of those bills that have been passed by a disgraceful confederate who has called himself the session of the Supreme Council. In fact, this bill was neither on the committee nor did the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration give a positive conclusion. Above all, the first reading of the Supreme Council failed to deal with this issue. The standard now referred to by the Chief of the Supreme Council, I would like to point out the following. According to article 123, when considering voting on the issue in the second reading of the Supreme Council, one of the decisions may indeed be adopted. The Supreme Council had already approved its decision in its second reading. The bill did not receive a sufficient number of votes. Such a bill is deemed to be rejected. We no longer have the right to return to him. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union thus expresses its position. And we're also going to draw ballots, demonstrating that these shameful bills didn't pass the vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u92	I'm asking you, the Party of Regions, the People's Deputy of Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I think we should compromise in the session room. Volodymyr Vasilovich, if the bills we need are to be considered in the Supreme Council and decided on them to compromise us. If the bill is not found and some of the other bills are not supported to be considered in the second reading, let's find a compromise. And it was, by the way, the subject of the agreement of all the faction leaders that all the bills that were being considered in the Bank's time would be reviewed and included in the message of the day, because much of them were necessary for the economy of our nation. So I suggest that my colleague, not take a firm stand, but compromise, as you have, by the way, made a commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, have you all spoken? I beg of you, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u95	People's deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Party Strike Call. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, our faction has a great request to you. Let's really make sure that we have all the languages, so that, first of all, in Parliament, we find compromise. The other one. So that, indeed, the people of Ukraine do not laugh at what is happening in Parliament. Third. Let's not break the law today. You understand perfectly, and we understand very well that you are being pressured by your party to put Parliament into an organ that serves the government today. We will not allow this as an opposition. And we have some advice for you that I think you should support: please avoid discrediting this important body, Parliament, throughout Ukraine. People have chosen us, including by our example, to prove that there is at least one place in this country where the law and the Constitution prevail, not shullerism and manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Communist faction, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u97	Thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party. Volodymyr Vasilovich and his colleagues at Strike, you're absolutely right not to discredit us, but you're on your own for discredit. Because according to the Rules, each faction is entitled to one act, and you asked for another, for you were the first to speak. So let's, If you are talking about compromises, start with yourself, follow the Rules, and that will not be the case. The other one. How much, we're not tired of repeating that you're denying the meeting that happened. It happened, part of the laws adopted at this session became laws, because the President signed them and there is a decision of the court that you should respect, which admitted that this meeting was a competent one. So let's please support the chairman's proposal and send the bill to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I've given you two, because now they're going to insist that they make two appearances. Please! Well, you two did, you know, I get it. Well, I can't give three times. After the vote, I'll give you a line. Pinzenic is for replication. Turn on Pinzenic's microphone. Talk, we're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The problem is not just April 4. There is a more serious problem. On June 4, the law was put to the vote twice. For the first time, 210 national deputies voted for him. The Law was about rereading the second reading. 213 national deputies voted. The bill was rejected. We have no right to vote for this bill anymore. We don't have it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposal is from the deputies. Let us not scream, but let us hear each other when the voting process is under way. Many deputies did not know what they were voting for. So let's have a civilized vote, and everything will be fine. Whether it's yes or no. I would like to vote on the proposal to return the draft Law (registration). Well, let's see how he votes. Number 1154 pro. But we came back more than once. On the specificities of the Sanitary Bank’s activities (second reading) to the Main Committee for Refrigeration, followed by the second reading and shortening of the Committee’s terms of reference. People's deputies, please vote. And everything will be accepted. [[12:40:35]] For 219 It is the session hall that shows civilized work and voting. "For" – 219, versus – 20, held – 2, not voted – 78. The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes. A draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise (on Human Resources) is under consideration. At the rostrum, I ask the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise (No. 2144) (since 31.01.2013) drafted by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to introduce article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination in Ukraine. The project proposes to cancel the claim that persons who have received the qualifications of a judicial expert who have a degree in science are released from internship once every three years. In line with their specialty in government specialized institutions and their level of professional knowledge. The bill is essentially legal in nature and is designed to provide for the only requirements for all persons who have received the qualifications of a judicial expert, irrespective of their professional qualifications and affiliation to state-level specialized institutions, and the only order of internships and the promotion of their scientific level and the qualifications of a judicial expert for their expertise, which will contribute to the improvement of the quality of justice in the State. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Chief Legal Authority, and it's being implemented without notice. On April 4, 2013, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice considered the bill at its May 15, 2013, session in the order of the second reading. In accordance with article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice of the Observations and Proposals of the Subjects of the Law of the Legislative Initiative did not come to this Bill in the order of the second reading. In accordance with part five of article 118 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if a bill is prepared for second reading or re-reading has not been proposed and amended, such a bill shall be submitted without a comparative table. Taking into account the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft Ukrainian Law (Registration No. 2144) (since 31.01.2013) a second reading and to adopt it as a whole as a law in the first reading edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u102	I'll bet you a vote. It's the second reading, there's no comment. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 2144) amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Expertise (on Human Resources) to be adopted on second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:44:40]] For 221 Against 0, hold on to 3, hold on to 96. The decision is not taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 1177) amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being introduced in connection with the introduction of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Sergey Fedorovich Kaltsev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the introduction of the State Register for Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (Registration No. 1177). The bill is aimed at bringing valid legislative acts of Ukraine into compliance with the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, which took effect on 1 January 2013. The committee received proposals from two Ukrainian national deputies, Sharova and Gorina and the National Bank of Ukraine. A total of 17 suggestions. Of which 6 is proposed to be taken into account in whole or in part, the rest is to be rejected. The main block of proposals proposed to be rejected relates to the changes to the Law on the Mortgage, since according to the Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, the state mortgage registration is mandatory and necessary to reconcile the Act and the Law on the Mortgage. The committee at its meeting on 13 May 2013 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the introduction of state registration of immovable property rights and their burden to accept them on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u104	Honorable deputies. Amendment No. 1 of National Deputy Sharov. Don't insist. Next. Amendment 4, National Deputy of Gorin. Don't insist. That's right. 8 Amendment, People’s Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 9, National Bank of Ukraine. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 10th National Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? Overruled. 11th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 12, National Bank of Ukraine. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Overruled. 13th Amendment. Don't insist. 14th. The National Deputy of Gorin. Don't insist. Counted. All corrections are taken into account. Honourable MPs, I am voting on draft Act No. 1177 amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. For adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:50:02]] For 218. Against 0, held – 5, not voted – 96. The decision is not taken. by factions Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law 2291 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce is under consideration. Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Sergei Fedorovich Kaltsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u105	Honorary Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Economic Policy, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared for second reading the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce (for State Regulations, Agreements and Contracts) (registration No. 2291). The bill is designed to further improve the mechanism for making and implementing the distribution agreements that was introduced in 1999 and in its own time, has proven to be positive. The project is recommended, inter alia, to renew the mandate of the inter-ministerial commission to organize and implement production distribution agreements as an advisory body of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The committee had 23 proposals, 12 of which were proposed to take the rest into account in whole or in part. Proposals for the bill came from three Ukrainian national deputies, from Irina Gorina 8, from Paul Korzh 7 and from Mikola Rudzkowski 8. In fact, three different concepts of proposal authors were presented for consideration by the committee. The committee decided to support Mikoli Rudzkowski's amendments because they better preserve the main idea of the bill, restore the powers of the inter-ministerial commission, and also allow them to take into account the observations made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office regarding the inadequacy of granting certain powers to the commission to make it an alternative government body. The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 13 May 2013 adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Product Allocation Agreements (registration No. 2291). Accept in the second reading and in general the proposed editions. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! Let's get some repairs. Amendment number 3, National Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number five, People's Deputy of Goreen. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Correction of the 8th People's Deputy, Korz. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number nine, People's Deputy of Goreen. Don't insist. The 10th is the People's Deputy of Goreen. Don't insist. National Deputy Corge, 12th Amendment. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 15th is National Deputy Corge, not insisting. National Deputy Corge, 17th Amendment. Don't insist. 18th is the People's Chamber of Corge. Don't insist. 19th is the People's Deputy of Gorin. Don't insist. 20th, accounted for. 23 – National Deputy Korz. Don't insist. We've considered the amendments. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please sit down and vote. And whoever doesn't, they pick up the cards. Everybody, ready to go. I am voting on draft Law 2291 amending the Ukrainian Agreement Act. on the distribution of products (regarding the State regulation of the conclusion and enforcement of contracts for adoption in second reading and in general). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:56:02]] For 225 Against – 1, held – 4, did not vote – 85. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to give you the floor to the leader of the Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u107	Vladimir Vasilevich, we don't have a card. Please return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u108	Please turn on the microphone of Kilinkar's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u109	Vladimir Vasilevich, I'm asking you to re-vote the question, the card didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u110	Did you hear the MP's proposal? I'm voting for a return to the vote under this law. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:57:37]] For 228 Against -14, held – 2, not voted – 77. Decision taken. The factions. The factions. Dear friends, I've had enough to teach! I've already learned, so calm down. I am voting on draft Act No. 2291 amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for the Distribution of Produce (for the State Regulations for the Agreement and for the Implementation of Contracts). For adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:58:57]] For 232 Did everyone vote in person? 232, versus 8, held – 5, not voting – 73. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law on the Debt Debt of State-owned Coal Enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents and Occupational Diseases of Ukraine is being considered. Please, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Cibenko Petr Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Your view is proposed for consideration by a comparative table to the bill on repayment of the debt of government coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine (registration No. 1178) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes restructuring the debt owed to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine of state-owned carbon, coal-carbon enterprises, mines for which the decision to eliminate has been made. I want to inform you that a working group has been set up on this bill. It dealt with 29 proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies who came to the committee, of which 16 included the proposals made by national deputies Sharov and Zibenk, and 13 did not take into account the proposals made by the national deputy Koval. The proposals of Koval Aleksandr Ivanovich are not taken into account because they actually propose to change the substance of the bill and to pay off the debt that was set up by 2011, not only for state enterprises and mines that are part of the Department of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, but for all businesses that exist in this area, i.e. both private and leased, and all others. These proposals were not supported by committee members. At the same time, according to the working group, the debt restructuring is proposed for 60 months rather than 120 months. At the same time, it is proposed that this law be distributed not only to enterprises that are being eliminated but also to all state-owned coal enterprises, as well as to detailed terms and conditions for the dissolution of the debt-debt agreement. So, in summary, I would like to point out that the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree with the text of a comparative table in the bill on the repayment of the debt of state-owned coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for manufacturing accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine number 1178 and accept it as a law in the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Let's go, let's look at the amendments, the distinguished national MPs. Amendment No. 2 of the Koval People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. 3 revisions. Don't insist. Yes. Amendment No. 7 of the Koval People's Deputy. Don't insist. 9th Amendment. A national MP does not insist. Next. Overruled. 14th Amendment. Don't insist. 18th Amendment of the People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next. 20 revisions. Don't insist. 21st, the National MP doesn't insist. Twenty-four, no insistence. 27th. A national MP does not insist. 29th. We've been through all the repairs with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u114	I ask you to prepare for the vote. Take your seats. Geller, I'm asking you to let everyone go and vote in person. Sit down and vote. I am voting on draft Act (No. 1178) on the repayment of the debt of government coal enterprises to the Social Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases in Ukraine for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. Put your cards down, I've seen it. [[13:04:53]] For 232 Against - 3, held - 9, did not vote - 68. Decision taken. I'm asking for factions. Let's move on. The draft Act (2102) amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care (on budgetary financing) is being submitted for consideration. Please, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviva is head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Health Council has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care, prepared for the second reading. This government bill was adopted in the first reading on the basis of April 4, this year. The purpose of this bill is to bring article 14 of the Law on Emergency Medical Care to the terminology of budgetary legislation. To this end, the government proposed in article 14 of the Act that the word "budgets of the districts, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol" should be replaced by the words "district budgets, budgets of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol". There was only one amendment to the Committee's second reading, which is my amendment. And the Health Committee unanimously supported the amendment. Please, Your Honor, support this bill is very important. And now in areas where pilot projects are going and they're already working under the new law, there's a lot of efficiency and assistance, emergency care is very, very important. Each year, 50,000 people die of heart attacks alone. And one in three deaths is in emergency vehicles. So the vertical that we've made in this bill, and this is an amendment that is very much in need of funding from the areas, is going to work well for this law. Please support all members of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Saldo! We should vote, not call. I have to invite the deputies to the hall. I am voting on the draft Law 2102 amending article 14 of the Law on emergency medical care (on budgetary financing for adoption on second reading and in general). People's deputies, please vote. [[13:08:48]] For 234 Against 3, held – 10, not voted – 68. Decision taken. The factions. Honourable MPs, draft Law No. 2833 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform is being considered. Please, the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! A bill relating to amendments to the Tax Code (Registration No. 2833) on administrative reform in Ukraine is being prepared for second reading. Consider the committee. In general, 130 proposals were made by the national deputies. Partly or essentially counted 78. Appropriately 52 offers were rejected. We are ready to consider amendments and accept them as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the amendments. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u119	Okay, amendment number three, People's Deputy Dudenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u120	Turn it on. You don't scream without a microphone. Turn on the Odarchenk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I demand that Amendment No. 1 of the Hometics be put on confirmation. Dear colleagues, the amendment opens up the possibility for the Ministry of Taxation and Communities to administer a single social contribution. This means that we give the government, and more specifically, the representatives of the ruling clan, directly control the Pension Fund. This is done in order to make it possible to use the funds of the State Budget Penitentiary Fund as well as directly to dissipate these funds. Volodymyr Vasilovich, put the amendment in place for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared for the vote. I'm putting Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputy Homutinnik to the vote. Please vote. [[13:12:14]] For 221 Against 51, held – 9, not voted – 80. The decision is not taken. The factions. Correction not counted. Let's move on. 3 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Are you insisting? You insist. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Dudenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u123	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This proposal applies primarily to removing the contradiction between the Civil Code and the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons in part of the qualification of what we have as a separate unit. The proposal is aimed at simplifying the billing of only those separate divisions that have branches and representations. Producers of structural units do not have proper status, but in places they are also forced to register as individual taxpayers, which significantly complicates the administration of taxes and of the congregations that are paid by the designated legal persons. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u124	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the People's Deputies. Amendment number 3. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:14:02]] For a hundred and Against 17, held – 49, not voted – 111. The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment 5 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. He doesn't insist. Amendment number seven, Oxana People's Deputy Sold. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Number 9, National Deputy Blavajki. Are you insisting? I can't see. Don't insist. Amendment 10, National Member of the Apostle. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. Amendment 11. People’s Deputies — The Apostle You Urge? No, it's not. 12th Amendment, People's Deputy Sold. Are you insisting? Please turn on the Prodan microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u125	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, all three amendments I have made to this bill and before, and there will be another, pertaining to the free provision of services to the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. Yeah, we're all seeing you right now on the road to the U.S. network lines, running boards that say that the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly is now serving and administering taxes, and congregations. In fact, this kind of service requires money. That is why I made amendments that would ensure the free service of the Ministry of Revenue and Taxpayers’ congregations, the free payment of taxes. Because today there is a situation where in order to pay the tax, it is necessary for the Ministry to pay these taxes. I ask that the majority of the deputies be supported by these amendments, which will ensure the free provision of services to the Ministry of Income and Congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u126	I'll bet you a vote on the amendment of the People's Deputy Sold number 12. Please vote. [[13:16:43]] For a hundred and Against – 2, held – 3, did not vote – 175. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 15 of the apostle’s national deputy What's that? Turn on the Odarchenk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. This is about amendment number 14. Dear colleagues, this amendment gives us the right to keep the payment of the only social contribution to the organs of the income and the congregations. Dear colleagues, once again, I insist that social contributions are neither tax nor congregation, his payment has nothing to do with the tax policy of the state. That's why Vladimir Vasilovich, I strongly oppose taking this into account, and I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the offer. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 14 of the People's Deputies of the Homutinika for support. Please vote. [[13:18:14]] For 218. Against 75, held – 4, did not vote – 80. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 15. Do you insist, National Deputy Apostle? Don't insist. 16 — The Apostle’s People’s Deputy. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Amendment 19, People's Deputy Petovka. Don't insist. Amendment 22, National Member of the Apostle. Don't insist. 24, People's Deputy Petyovka. Don't insist. 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u129	What about 23rd? National member of the apostle. Don't insist. What do you think, for confirmation, huh? I'll bet on the vote to confirm Amendment 23. [[13:19:58]] For 219 Against 71, held – 6, not voted – 85. The decision is not taken. The factions. Correction not supported, not counted. Yeah, now what? 25th People's Deputy Sold. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u130	And that's not my amendment, that's not my amendment. Well, that's not mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u131	Microphone's on, you can talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u132	I'm asking you to support an amendment that predicts that checks can only be done in a direction. Because the text that was offered up to 1 reading allowed the language to go out without testing, which should be in the verifiers. Please support the majority in ensuring that examiners come from the Ministry of Income and Congregations exclusively with verifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u133	I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for amendment 25 of the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote. [[13:21:55]] For the 120th. Against three, held-28, didn't vote-230. Correction not supported. The factions can be shown. Amendment 28. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u134	It's about a story with the only social contribution that's being forced into the Mindhodes system. I don't understand at all the position of the Communist faction, which today, with its own hands, is taking over the entire pension system of Ukraine. You do realize what you're doing today, don't you? So I insist, the faction as a whole insists that 26 and 27 amendments be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u135	I'm betting on the vote to be amended by 26 people's deputies, Homutinika. Please vote. [[13:23:20]] For 216 Against – 76, held – 8, did not vote – 80. The decision is not taken for support. Amendment No. 27 of the people's deputies, Sharov. According to Rosenck's offer, I'm betting on maintenance. Please vote. [[13:23:56]] For 222 Against 72, held – 8, did not vote – 77. The decision is not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to sit down and vote, not run around the hall. Amendment 28 of the apostle People’s Deputy. Let's move on. Amendment 32. [[B in m in s a l in]] Odarchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this right is proposed to refer the right to generalize the issue of the only social contribution from the Pension Fund, which, friends, has a great deal of experience in this matter, to the control bodies of the Mindhhog. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I stress that contributions to social funds have nothing to do with the revenue of the state budget. It's a completely separate sphere that's not good enough, but it's still working. You don't have to touch it, because it's going to end because in Ukraine, they're going to stop paying any pensions or social benefits at all. Volodymyr Vasilovich, put this right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u137	That's the 30th amendment you made, isn't it? 30th or 31st? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you don't have to yell. He says, "30s," and you yell, "31st." I'm betting on the vote to amend 30 national MP Homutinnik for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:26:17]] For 217 Against 73, held – 7, not voted – 83. The decision is not taken. Amendment 31 People's Deputies of Sharov. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. Please vote. [[13:26:49]] For 216 Against 77, held – 7, not voted – 8. The decision is not taken. Amendment 32, National Member of the Apostle. Don't insist. 34, People's Deputy Petyovka. Don't insist. Rosenko proposes an amendment 33 to the vote in favour of this amendment. I'll bet 33 on the vote. Please vote. [[13:27:45]] For 215 Against 72, held – 10, not a vote – 82. The decision is not taken. The factions. Next, what do we have? 34, Five. Next. 35th National Deputy Sharov. He's taking it off. People's Deputy Sold. Turn on the microphone. People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable deputies, is again talking about the free provision of services provided by the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations today. As you know, the whole big business, the whole middle business today is obliged to report electronically. He doesn't have a choice. Under this responsibility today, small businesses are also trying to send reports in electronic form only. At the same time, the obligation to be able to sign digitally is based on the Ministry of Income and Assembly, but the rule is that these digital signatures are free, the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly and the Committee are not supported. I'm asking you very much, let's support and ensure that the income and tax collection of Ukrainian taxpayers are reported free of charge to the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. We pay our taxes. We don't have to pay the Ministry to see if we properly paid our taxes. Please maintain free services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u139	I'm betting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Sold on Amendment 36. Please vote. [[13:29:44]] For 168 Amendment 40, National Member of the Apostle. Let's move on. Amendment 43, National Member of the Apostle. He doesn't insist. People’s Deputies, 44 C.E. No suggestions. 45, People's Deputy Sold. 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u140	Thank you very much. Again, it is a matter of handing over documents that should be provided electronically by tax payers. I suggest that only in cases where this is provided by law should they be made available electronically. Regrettably, the committee rejected the legal obligations of electronic documents. I ask the National Deputies to support not everyone being forced to report electronically, but only in cases where this is prescribed by law. And I thank those MPs who voted in favour of my previous amendments, which stimulate and ensure the possibility of really free tax work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u141	I'll bet you a vote, People's Chamber of Commerce, on amendment number 45. Please vote. [[13:31:35]] For 158. Against – 2, held – 32, did not vote – 186. The decision is not taken. Amendment 46, People's Deputy Sold. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u142	Again, this is about electronic reporting. Paragraph 20.1.7 provides for mandatory electronic reporting for the Ministry of Income and Congregations. Not every entrepreneur who does not have a self - employed employee can provide an electronic report that will result in the adoption of this law with only a fee. Because all the amendments regarding free services that are so advertised today by the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations have been rejected by both the committee and now the deputies in the Hall. I ask the MPs to mention that there is not only big business in Ukraine, but there is a small and medium business that has no funds for electronic reporting in paid form. And please support the possibility of reporting not only electronically but also in paper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u143	I'll bet you a vote on the proposal, People's Chamber of Commerce, after amendment 46. Please vote. [[13:33:08]] For 172 Against – 1, held – 36, did not vote – 170. The decision is not taken. The factions. 47 Amendment, National Member of the Apostle. Don't insist. 48. A proposal for confirmation has been made. I think we need a stenographer, and if there's an offer, we need to bring it in through the microphone. Please, People's Deputies Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u144	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. This article refers to the right to carry out checks on taxpayers, including insurance contributions, to the so - called Mindh, which cannot be in a social insurance system that has nothing to do with the tax system. So this is another article that destroys the system of social insurance in Ukraine, which destroys the system of the Pension Fund in Ukraine, which deprives the pension fund of independence and drives all social insurance costs into the state budget of Ukraine, where they will not retire, not on social pay, but on the construction of roads to Conca-Spas or other elite areas. So I strongly ask that this amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u145	I'm putting an amendment to the 48th National Deputy Homutinika for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:35:12]] For 214 Against 70, held-7, not a vote 86. The decision is not taken. Yes, the rebuffed Amendment 49, the apostle’s national deputy. Yeah, let's keep going. 50 amendments to the People's Deputy Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! Here's an amendment that concerns another question than the ones I proposed before. The bill provides for the right to conduct checks by the Ministry of Income and Congregations, to carry out inspections of premises, to conduct inventory, and to do whatever they deem necessary during the inspection. I propose my amendment to allow the Ministry of Income and Assembly inventory to be carried out only as part of the verification exercise, within the framework of the credentials issued by the verification. The adoption of this amendment will allow us not to allow representatives of the ministry, and we know that not all of them are very decent, to exceed their authority and to check those places, and in cases where this is prescribed by law. Please support this amendment, and do not allow it, to prevent tax officials from exceeding their authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u147	I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of the People's Chamber of Commerce, amendment number 50. Please vote. [[13:37:06]] For-173 Against – 1, held – 28, not voted – 176. The decision is not taken. Amendment 51, People's Deputies of Doubenkov. Don't insist. Five, national MP, 52. Don't insist. 54th People's Deputies, Petyovka. Don't insist. 56, People's Deputy Petyovka. Don't insist. Amendment 60, People's Deputy Petyovka. Don't insist. 61, national deputy of the apostle. Don't insist. 64, People's Pietovka. Don't insist. 68. People's MP Petyovka. Don't insist. 69. Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u148	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I propose, for the same reasons, the destruction of social insurance and the arrival of the Pension Fund, to place on confirmation amendment number 69 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u149	I would like to vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Rosenka to support amendment 69 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Please vote. [[13:39:25]] For 216 Against 77, held – 7, did not vote – 77. The decision is not taken. Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm asking you to make an amendment to 70 for confirmation. It refers to the same problems, the destruction of the Pension Fund's work. Dear friends, imagine it was just voted in favour of the law that the Party of Regions wants to fund "Quick Aid" at the expense of some of the sponsoring funds from enterprises that the Ministry of Assembly and Income will survive from entrepreneurs. Today they want to raise the funds of the Pension Fund to this very Ministry of Assembly and Income in order to cover all the holes. We need to be aware that we cannot do this, we cannot destroy the Pension Fund system. So, Volodymyr Vasilovich, put this 70 right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u151	70th. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of People's Deputies Odarchenk to confirm amendment 70 of the People's Deputies of Homutinnik. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:41:10]] For 221 Against 77, held – 6, not voted – 74. The decision is not taken. Don't shout too loud, we all hear. The factions. Amendment 71 of the Blaujko People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. National MP Derevyanko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I propose to exclude the point that the Ministry of Assembly and Income may have other powers so called prescribed by law. The point is that today, according to the Constitution, all officials must act exclusively within the limits of the law and in the manner prescribed by law. That is, the Tax Code should contain a comprehensive list of Ministry powers. And I insist that we delete this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u153	I would like to vote on the amendment of the People’s Derevyanco, 72 amendments, please vote. [[13:42:58]] For the 120th. Against - 1, held - 31, did not vote - 224. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 73 of the people's deputies, Sharov. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. Amendment 75, national deputy of Sharov. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Counted. Amendment 77, People's Deputies. Don't insist. National MP Derevyanco Don't insist. National member of the apostle. Don't insist. 81st National Delegate to the Apostle. Don't insist. 83, People's Deputies of Doubenkov. Don't insist. 84, People's Deputies. Don't insist. 85, People's Deputies. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this proposal is intended to ensure that the general tax advice provided by the Ministry of Income and Congregations takes place in the Ministry of Justice. In addition, the proposal provides for the possibility of appealing general tax advice on the analogy with an individual tax consultation. Today, there is a situation in which individual tax advice can be sued by taxpayers in court and general tax advice does not. They have the status of statutory legal acts, so they are subject to administrative charges, in the order of administrative jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u155	I bet the vote on the amendment of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova, 85th Amendment. Please vote. [[13:45:22]] For-86 Against 4, held – 28, not voted – 251. The decision is not taken. Amendment 86 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. 89, People’s Deputy of the Stallion. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next. People's MP Dudenkov, amendment 91. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! This is aimed at settling issues that arise around the payment of advance taxes on monthly income. In particular, the right provides that advances paid on dividends will automatically reduce monthly advances on monthly advance payments. In addition, the proposal regulates the payment of advance taxes by taxpayers who pay a consolidated income tax. In addition, the adjustment provides for the application of the corresponding adjustment coefficient to the monthly advance rates for the tax rate that is valid during the reporting period in relation to the full calculation of the monthly advances calculated as a result of the previous reporting period. I propose to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u157	I bet on the vote amendment No. 91 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Please vote. [[13:47:21]] For-67 Against – 1, held – 35, not a vote – 271. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to consider this law before the break. That's why I'm continuing my morning session until 2:00 in the morning for 15 minutes. Please continue. By 2:15. You're gonna have to do it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u158	Amendment 93, People's Deputies. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 99, People's Deputies. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 101, People's Deputies. Are you insisting? 93 amendment, People's Deputies of Dudenkov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u159	My dear colleagues, the proposal is to regulate the issue of non-residential settlement and allow them to pay land taxes and real estate taxes differently from land. The proposal simplifies the list of documents to be submitted to nonresidents who own land for non - commercial purposes. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u160	I'm betting amendment No. 93 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova for the vote. Please vote [[13:49:18]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Amendment No. 103 of the People's Deputies of Dudenkova. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 104, People's Deputies. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 107, People's Deputies. Don't insist. Amendment No. 112, National Deputy of the Kings. Don't you insist? Amendment 119, National Deputy Apostle. Amendment number 105. Offer: for confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:29]] For 199 Correction not supported. I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 106 of the People's Deputy Homutinika. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:52]] For a hundred and Correction not supported. Amendment 119, National Deputy Apostle. Is he insisting? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 125, People's Chamber of Staff. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 128 of the apostle’s national deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 130 of the apostle’s People’s Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the amendments. A word is given to the head of the committee of Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u161	Dear Igor Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that on December 24, 2012, the President's decree on the functioning of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly was issued. And the main positions that were in the bill in the People's Deputies, including, they corresponded precisely with the President's decree and with an active legislative base. Those amendments, which have not been confirmed in the voting process, are completely in fact balancing this bill. And about how social contributions work. This position was also reflected in the President's decree and, I think it's useful, my personal opinion that administration be controlled from the side of the relevant ministry, which is responsible for the revenue of the budget if we are all looking forward to increasing pensions and social payments in our country. So I propose that this project be sent back to the committee for a second reading, with a reduced procedure, to work and come back for the next week already.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u162	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the draft Law (Registration 2833) to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with administrative reform with the committee’s proposal to return to the second reading. People's deputies, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u163	Please support the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-18-m0.u164	[[13:53:32]] For 211 The decision is not taken. "To" is 211. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, Fatherland – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 29, non-fractional – 9. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I propose to continue the evening plenary session until the agenda is completed. I'd like you to vote for the National People's Deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:54:18]] For 202 The offer is not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act (registration 2834) on amendment is being introduced. Vitaly Yuriovich, we'll start looking at it, and then after the break, we'll continue or we'll continue. Everybody wants to take a break. Okay. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
