ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u1	Invite MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:55]] 355 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear National MPs, we have a law in turn, draft Law No. 2181a: amending certain laws of Ukraine to facilitate the transfer of agricultural land to ownership and use. There is an offer not to consider it; it has already been considered once. We'll figure it out, and then we'll get back to it sometime. Is there any objection? We are considering draft Act No. 3358: amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on restructuring the actual budget debt through the issuance of financial treasury bills. How do we view it? Come on, vote. Who supports the simplified procedure? Please vote. Don't get in! That's how you run! [[16:04:09]] For-143 [[B in m in s a l in]] What am I? What am I, "we haven't made it"? So what do we do? Yeah, how come you all didn't make it? Invite the deputies. Here, here, look what you're doing. I'm betting on a reduced voting procedure. Please vote. [[16:05:07]] For-154 Against 34, abstained - 0, did not vote - 182. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have returned to the vote. Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing Hennaday Pavlovich Temnik, please report. Gennady Pavlovich, you have him. Where's the minister? Gennady Pavlovich, you have 10 minutes to report, please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can't you hear what I'm saying? I'll give the minister ten minutes. What is it? At least listen to what I'm saying. Well, what kind of people are you? I'm saying what kind of people are you? I gave the minister 10 minutes. You don't want to work! You can only hear yourself, but you can't hear anyone! You're only hearing Easy. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the government is proposing a bill amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on restructuring the actual budget debt through the issuance of financial treasury bills. The aim of the development is to create conditions for the calculation of differences in tariffs, taking into account the indebtedness of the current year, and to ensure the stable passage of the heating season and the uninterrupted provision of centralized water and water supply services. Considering that the debt for natural gas consumed on 1 October 2013 amounts to 17 billion dollars and that the difference in tariffs for heat energy for the population on 1 January 2013 amounts to 2.8 billion dollars, it is necessary to allow companies to pay off the debt for energy consumption by the treasury financial bills, which is only due to the state of 1 January 2013 and the one arising during the current year. Yes, as of December 31, 2013. The difference in tariffs for heat energy is likely to amount to some 9.6 billion dollars. Also, as of January 1, 2013, the government’s debt to local budgets to central water and sanitation services is 4 billion dollars, and at the end of the year it will be 6.8 billion dollars. The bill proposes to extend the requirements of article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2013 to allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to restructure the actual budget debt for its expenditure of the State Budget, which arose as of 1 January 2013 in the amount of the financial treasury bills that it has established by removing a period of up to 5 years with an income of 5 per cent. It has also been extended to debt from the difference in tariffs on thermal energy, centralized water supply and water supply, produced, transported and supplied to the population, and has been created due to the inadequacy of the actual cost of thermal energy and central water supply and water supply services to tariffs that have been approved or accepted by government authorities or local authorities. The draft law, according to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, is in agreement with all interested central executive authorities. I also want to inform you that the number of thermal power companies is 650. The number of enterprises operating centralized water supply and water supply is a thousand 581. The level of cost-of-service tariffs for thermal energy supply is 69 percent. And the level of cost-effectiveness of central water and water services is 75 percent. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u3	Is there a question for the minister? Yes. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u5	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, first question to you. Why does the minister of regional development report on this issue? It's a matter of budget. It should be reported by the Minister of Finance and looked at in the Committee on Budgets, that's the first. Now the question, Mr. Dark One, is to you. Please tell me, what is the amount of debt owed today by the State to entrepreneurs who have done the work? What is the amount of the difference in tariffs. And tell me, where did you see 5 percent in Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u8	I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Municipal Economy owed 181 million on 1 January 2013. And the possibility of its repayment is accepted. It's different. Debt from the difference in tariffs, I've already informed, I'll inform you again, it's for thermal energy at 01.01.2013, at the beginning of the year -- 2.8 billion dollars, now at 01.09.2013 it's now 7 billion. And by the end of the year, as I said, 9.6 billion. By water supply and water supply. The figure for 01.01.2013 was 4.5 billion dollars, and for 01.09 it was 6.1 billion dollars. And by the end of the year, it's going to be 6.8 billion dollars. With regard to the setting of the interest rate, the Ministry of Finance agreed when a government decision was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u9	Freedom Union, National Deputy of Cherniaków.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u11	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u12	Thank you. Alexei Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopil. Mr. Minister, please tell me, first of all, I would like to point out that the Freedoms faction did not vote in favour of the laws that apply to the long-term reform. I have a simple question. Now the Supreme Council has a purpose or, let's say, most of the possibilities for the Cabinet of Ministers to put out the debt by promissory notes. What are the employees of energy-generating companies, heat-generating companies, companies that transport water, plumbing, as well as bills to feed their children with bills so that they get stuck with bills, and go to the market with bills? Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u13	I would like to inform you that the 2013 budget provides for a subsidy from the State budget to offset the differences in tariffs. The restructuring that is now being proposed is a separate, additional mechanism that will allow for a significant increase in tariff differentials. I want to inform the people's deputies that the level of debt on wages among housing and utility enterprises is decreasing with each month and that in fact the level of payment is now zero, debt in most areas, and in those areas where it is, it is constantly under the control of the Ministry and the main issue that is being considered is that all the costs that are coming are primarily going to be paid off. If there are any facts, please let me take this personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u14	Have a seat. Thank you. Time's up. You're welcome. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Geller, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u15	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Budget Committee of October 9th reviewed the draft law submitted by Cabinet of Ministers at number 3358. The author reported on the need for a supplement to article 22 of the State Budget Act 2013 on restructuring the debt ratio of different tariffs for thermal energy, central water supply and water supply, which arose not only on 1 January 2013 but also in the current year through the issuance of financial treasury bills. At the same time, the bill's committee considered under-sufficient budgetary resources for differences in tariffs, and noted that the quality of this season's heating season depends primarily on the state of energy bills, and concluded that it is appropriate to further address the issue of debt repayment in the difference between tariffs. The committee then adopted this decision: recommending to the Supreme Council draft Law number 3358 as a result of its consideration in the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u16	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign up. National MP, Fatherland faction, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u17	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give the floor to the head of the Kyiv City Organization of Fatherland Yuri Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u18	Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u19	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please tell me that you are currently running a calculation scheme using promissory notes. How will this affect the work of organizations that provide heat and water services? Will this not affect the cost of services for the population? Because in fact, you're taking the bills out of the circle of these companies, we've heard 14 billion dollars from the minister's mouth. I'm surprised how these companies can function when 14 billion dollars are removed from their circulation and they get instead of this bill. I'm sure it's going to cost the service, and at the expense of the population, they're going to compensate for these costs. What will it be like?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u20	Thank you, Mr. Odarchenko. I can tell you that this is not going to affect the cost of the price for the population. And the billings are just going to make it possible for supply companies not to collect debts, but to calculate bills with a final gas and electricity supplier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u21	Thank you. National MP Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Eugene Borisovich, I have a question for you. You think it's normal for people to give out bills instead of living money? People did their jobs, invested their money, spent their money on materials, labor, and so forth. And instead of living money, they get bills with five years to wait for repayment. Isn't it clear that it's about washing the company's circulation costs, that it's about taking away the opportunity to develop these businesses? I mean, it's just crazy. So people put in money, instead of empty papers that will be out in five years. How can you, as head of Parliament's leading budget committee, report on this shameful law?Oh, my God! How can you support him?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u23	Can I answer that? Can you answer that, Mr. Oleg?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u24	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u25	Mr. Oleg, please read the law, there's nothing to say that bills will be counted for work, that's a difference in tariffs. So read carefully. You read the bill carefully and there will be no such stupid questions. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u26	Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the factions. I beg of you, National Deputy Koleznichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I ask you to give the floor to my colleague, Inne Bogoslovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u28	Please, Inna Bogoslovska, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you now to adopt this law in the first reading, not in general, and for what reasons. We can agree that a bill should be issued for unpaid differences in tariffs. But after that, heat companies can only afford these bills for five years. Today, before the start of the heating season, you've all seen what's going on in the thermocommunergo. Usually, the state owes them one amount of different tariffs, and they owe Naftogazu a different amount, and usually a little less. We're going to have to foresee the possibility in this law that the Heatcommunerge can account for the billing that's met, and thus reduce the current debt. So I ask now to vote on this law in the first reading and on the second reading to anticipate this opportunity for the companies of thermal communications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u30	I'm asking you, the Vitalia Cliché faction, Rizanenko. Please, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u31	Good afternoon. Deputy Rizanenko, impact faction, 97 district, Kyiv district. We didn't support the bill of bills, we argued our position. Nor do we support the bill that provides for payment of debts to TKE bills. Here was a report by Mr. Temnik, head of the budget committee, but they never explained what the TKEs would do with these bills. Are they going to burn the apartments, or are they going to generate heat from them? No, it's not. It was said that a mutual account could be made. Where to? Pay for Naftegazu with these bills? All right, Naftofgasu, they're going to pay for their debt to the gas. What will Naftogaz do with them? Is he going to be able to settle for Gazprom with these bills? He can't. So, you know, there's nothing to say "chemistry." The state could, as has been done in the past, repay the debt with money before TKE, so the money would be calculated with Naftogaz. Naftogaz would either be accounted for with his creditors, or he could just as well repay his debts to the state on taxes. We don't support the bill and we call on other parties not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u32	Thank you. The "Fatherland" faction, Pavlovsky's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u33	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to the deputy, the head of the Kyiv city organization "The Fatherland" Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u34	Please, Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear friends, we voted before lunch, more loyally, most of the Party of Regions voted in favour of giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u36	One minute. Let's welcome Vladimir Klitschka all together. [[Applause]] Let's sit down, let's get back to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u37	Dear friends, we need to win when Vladimir Klitschko won his match, this gas mafia that is today trying to make extra profits in this bill. Well, look what happened before dinner. A party of regions and most of them voted in favour of the bill that we Naftogazu must be able to borrow from the State's guarantee. They take 14 billion dollars at the expense of the population. Dear friends, and today, after lunch a few hours later, there is a bill vote that they try to settle for the gas they consume at the expense of bills. Dear friends, I want you to compare and feel this pattern. Initially, there are sources for the settlement of such long-term accounts, which are the guarantees of the state, i.e. the population accounts for this debt. And today, now, a bill is being voted on, when the debt for gas could be accounted for by promissory notes. Dear friends, I'm asking you to understand that this scheme that the Party of the Regions is today is nothing more than robbing the population, it's nothing more than driving the companies into a dead end when they can't provide services. Just think, 14 billion dollars in debt for services, they're delayed, this debt, in a long box, the company only gets the opportunity to have 5 billion profits. What is it? Are these the profits of these enterprises, or are we simply destroying them? I have a feeling that we're just destroying them, and we're continuing to be able to build these schemes by washing up these funds. Dear friends! I want you to pay attention to the fact that there's a bill that's already been passed by the Timoshenko government on an energy conservation programme. And every year, this bill requires about 5 to 7 billion dollars to be invested in the municipal economy in order to ensure that there are no large contributions to the heat supply to reduce the cost of heating. How much did the government of Azar involve in this program? Zero, dear friends, zero! And today, they're building schemes to continue to rip the state apart. I ask you to understand that this is a theft of the entire population, and not to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u38	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov. And I'll give the committee manager the final word before making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u40	Pass the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u41	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to remind you that this bill is now being considered in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, because, in accordance with article 91 of the Rules, if it has rules that require agreement with other authorities of the State, they should be made available to national deputies in the form of supporting materials. The bill required harmonization with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Justice. If I'm not mistaken, for the time being, such materials are not available to the national MPs, so we can't look at this bill. And in general, if we were to be guided here by the Rules now, not by the political relevance and demands of a large capital that wants to privatize our heat-generating economy, we would have to withdraw this bill today and give up such experiments in the future. I would also like to point out that the figures presented by the minister in his report today are far from encouraging. Oh, that's right. Indeed, as of September 2013, the total amount owed for the difference in tariffs is no longer $14 billion but 18 billion. At the same time, if we look at Ukraine's State budget for the current year 2013, we're going to find out that the total amount of subsidies given to local budgets was actually planned at a total of 5 billion 125 million dollars. They gave local budgets a little bit more than half a billion dollars in total. This means that with such a level of budgetary discipline and the looting of local budgets, there is no justice in the distribution of public funds in the utility sector and cannot be done. I also wanted to remind in the context of the draft bill that the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, in the context of the negotiation process with Ukraine, are constantly demanding an increase in prices for natural gas, which in turn will cause a disaster to our short-term housing and utilities. I'd like to remind you that we have a thousand thermalcommunergo companies in Ukraine today, and the average beneficial amount of potency in Ukraine is 60 percent. At the same time, when in normal European countries, I'm not talking about Western European states, and in countries like Poland, Hungary or Slovakia, the benefit ratio has been up to 85-90 percent. For a long time there was a question about the expansion of thermalcommunergo enterprises in the integration of them into large regional holdings. This has not yet been done. So instead of structural reforms in the economy and housing and utilities, we are now being offered fire-fighting measures to save businesses that have long been essentially bankrupt because of the absence of systemic, fundamental reforms in this area. Then, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will not support the bill and call upon all factions, regardless of their political relevance, to refrain from supporting it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u42	Where's "Glory to Ukraine!"? Party of regions, national deputy Yatzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much from everyone, absolutely all majors know about the problems that there are today in the KCG and directly in the Heatcommunergo system. So I'm talking to factions that call themselves "opposition," not swapping as maps, the GKG system, but supporting this law, which is really going to be able to heal this system. So let's step aside and support the government's initiative. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to ask the Mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u44	I beg of you, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I have in my hands all the memoranda signed by Ukraine with the International Monetary Fund. I want to read who signed these memos and what these memos have. The signature, and here are the signatures: Stelma, Pinzenik, Timoshenko, Yushchenko. What's written here? And it says here that, as a matter of urgency, they are obliged to raise the price of domestic gas and the price of imported gas to the world’s prices and reach it in 2011. Next, next. The same memo, signed also by Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Umanski already, so to speak, Stelma. It also says what we are doing. And here, clearly, when reporting to the same International Monetary Fund, it's written, "we've raised the price of natural gas, electricity and coal in order to get additional funds for the budget and reduce the need for subsidies." Dear ones, this is the answer to all those who speak today about how he cares about the people of Ukraine. You signed it all, your signatures stand, "the orange fools"! [[Applause]] You did this shame that the people of Ukraine, who have 20 billion cubic meters of internal gas to supply all the heat-communal enterprises at a normal cost, did so by betraying the people of Ukraine by making promises to whom? The International Monetary Fund! I mean, for you, the people of Ukraine are nobody. The Company's faction has repeatedly acted and insisted that everything we have in Ukraine, which is primarily Ukrainian natural gas, and it's long known, and here the Minister of Energy just confirmed, 340 dollars at most per thousand cubic meters. This should be taken from you, oligarchs, and given to the heat company. Then we'll have 340 dollars. A thousand cubic meters of gas, then we'll have less loss than we have now. All of this comes from workers and peasants, in the pocket of the Ukrainian oligarchs, who today deceive the people of Ukraine and betray them by signing all these agreements. So once again, what I'm saying is that today we need to look for a way out of this is not just that here, so let's say some promissory notes and other proposals, we need to radically change our approach from the point of view of national interests and what we're doing today in the state. I'm underlining, we have to clean the wells of gas and oil from the mine. When the Communists were working on the mine, the coal was three rubles of tons, and today there were one and a half thousand bracelets and so on, let's say, no man would take it. This is the answer to the question: Why do we have such a disorder in the country? That's because the state is your own pocket. Here's what I want to say on behalf of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u46	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy Squirreluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u47	Please pass on the word to Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u48	Please pass on the word to Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u49	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. I would like to say to the Communist oligarchus Simonica, who here mentioned the mythical orange oligarchs, that in the time of the government of Yulia Timoshenko for the companies of the Heatcommunergo, a tax price for gas has been set and is still being stored. The greenhouse gas costs 1,300 dollars for a thousand cubes, nearly three times as much as the gas that is being shipped to the Ukrainian industry. This is the first time. And second of all, with respect to this law. The law is totally anti-national. The law does not reflect the real state of things in the economy. The law is only for banks that are close to the Party of the Regions to earn money (actually from the air). That's why the Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of such a law, as will obviously all the opposition forces in this House. I think if we go any further in adopting such promissory notes, these promissory notes, as we spoke today from the minister's rostrum, seem to be going to give final consumers gas bills. So, you're taking these bills to Russia? Russia will not accept such promissory notes. So it's a completely harmful and illogical bill for both Ukraine and its economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u50	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Respectable Society! Judging from the fiery speech of the leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the whole faction will unanimously support the bill of bills. [[Applause]] Thank you. But come on. Your Honor, I address, first of all, the representatives of the Party of the Regions. Let's take a closer look at the situation that's going on right now. So this bill offers us a difference, I emphasize, in tariffs to cover bills. But why does the difference in tariffs arise? Because heat is released at prices below the cost. What do we propose now? We suggest that this difference be given by promissory notes. And how did the right brother, Kyle, ask questions, and what next? The heatcommunergo is going to be given to the generating companies, what's next for the heat companies? They will have to give the same promissory notes! Appropriately, the heat - generation companies have two options when they receive bills. Either sell with a discount or wait five years. Then the next option is to raise the cost of tariffs to the difference of discount. And we're driving ourselves into this rascal. We're turning it around. And we can't stop. Because everyone understands that at least 40 percent of the bill will be discounted! Where are we going to take this difference?Oh, my God! Where will living money come from? And instead of looking for budget coverage, increasing the efficiency of a government car, reducing losses, reducing theft, we're going the easy way. We write empty papers, which then all companies will have to fill in real money. Because it's not a joke! Because wages are really going to have to be published. And with what will they pay people? Hygocals of Warmness or Coal? Or bicycles? Ladies and gentlemen, let's think, let's stop. We're not supposed to let our government car go undirected, into a chaotic movement. Because there's a heating season coming up. If we've gotten to the point that we've had debt outstanding for years, probably because the system works ineffectively. Then let us not support this disease. Let's look for a way out. There's light heads around here. It's a little bit smaller, it's a little bit more. But they are. So let's look for a way out! Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u52	Freedom Union, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u53	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This is exactly what the Communist Party just said about what was good. When they were in power. So interestingly, when Ukraine was occupied by the Soviet Union, it was from Ukraine that both natural gas and oil were extorted so that almost nothing was left. These resources were fed to Moscow, fed Russia to the provinces themselves, fed puppeteers and Communist parties around the world: in Africa, in Asia, the communist regimes of terrorism around the world. That's why Ukrainian natural resources were used. And now they're telling us how good it was with the Soviet authorities. On the other hand, no Communist in 1991 defended this Soviet authority, and none of them went underground. Where are your underground paradises, where your underground bickerings are. You're sitting now, as they say, on the salary of the oligarchs, voting for anti-national laws, getting a salary from an independent Ukrainian state and talking about how good it was when we should all go back there. So you're going to stop getting money from the oligarchs and vote for anti-national laws. And the salary that you get from the state of Ukraine. Give up this salary! You're against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian flag, against the Ukrainian anthem! Why would you not give up Ukrainian citizenship in such a case? Because you're adaptable! And then there was, and now there is. Because sitting and counting money is the only thing you do. That's the first one. And now essentially the bill. Obviously he is completely wrong, and he is obviously anti - national. Obviously, we, the "liberators," the nationalists, have nothing to vote for such an anti-national bill, because we're not on the salary of oligarchs like some, and we're not going to get anything for it. But the main thing is that we really need strategic reforms in the housing sector. Because what's happening right now is an inconvenience. In Kiev, there is still no heat in a large number of homes. That's because Kievenergo is in private today. And we were told what an effective owner would be when they hand over Kievenergo to the oligarchus of the Party of Regions! What do we have now? We have that they're getting huge profits and there's no heat in the houses because they're telling us that they have debt. And now they want to cover them with bills. So how can you cover them, if it's a paper they won't take anywhere, in any bank. It's just-just a receipt that's not worth anything. Therefore, dear friends, we will certainly not vote for this. We need systematic reform of this area and, of course, ban the criminal Communist Party. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u54	National Deputy Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u55	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to briefly stop, first of all, in the economic state of the country and inform you that, according to our information, the State Treasury of Ukraine has not paid the government and local budget of Ukraine for nearly 90 billion dollars. Whole cities have stopped. Only in the Donetsk region, just according to Donetsk, which supported President Viktor Yanukovich of Ukraine and the Party of Regions, with unpaid bills of one and a half billion dollars. The country is in a pre-bankruptcy state. For those of you who can read, I'd like to show you this graph. This is Mudis, who published the credit ratings of Ukraine. Ukraine’s credit rating was worse than that of Greece and Cyprus combined. The situation is menacing. And what the government is trying to do today is to end the country's bankruptcy through the issue of bills is nothing more than build a financial pyramid. This financial pyramid has been built since the first day of the ruling President and Prime Minister. Let me remind you, the country's total debt is almost $70 billion. In the last three years, it has increased by twofold. The government budget deficit has doubled compared to last year’s. All economic indicators of the country, starting with industrial production and ending with gross domestic product, are zero GDP growth, negative industrial output decline, and zero inflation associated with lack of consumption and economic growth. There's an unacceptable issue of bills, because it's nothing more than a delay in bankruptcy. That's why we think there should be a Prime Minister here with a clear report on how to get out of the economic crisis. As for the individual parties, namely the Communists, who were talking about the oranges here, I'll remind you. In fact, in 2004, Mikola Janović Azarov had an orange scarf on Maidan. [[Applause]] And as for the only mechanism that we think we should leave, I still think that the bills in Ukraine should work. And I'm going to the Party of Regions. Party of regions, please pay for the Communist Party's vote on bills
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u56	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u57	Well, would it seem that politics is here? Look how good we are. We've found politics at any time in the heating season -- the IMF, the ones in the orange tie, where he went and all that sort of thing. Colleagues, this is about the increased use of the treasury billing financing mechanism. This is where the deputy went to the majors, and listen to what's actually going on. 3358 is not money. It's just, well, not money, because there's an expanded existing edition of the already in force State Budget Act. Remember, we changed article 22 of the State Budget Act for 2013 -- and the government has the opportunity to restructure existing debt in a similar way. What's this all about? On the restructuring of public debt. Where did you find those oligarchs? Where do you keep looking for them? What do you fear all the time? Colleagues, today Ukraine celebrates Mental Health Day. [[Applause]] Please, remember, be calm! But you can't go into this rostrum after some: it's all flooded, the gallbladder is dripping. Are you crazy or what? But protect your health! [[Applause]] You guys can yell at me. You can't convince me. You're still green. You better listen to what a wise man will tell you! Or before the heating season, we solve the problem of the differences in population tariffs or NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, in accordance with the current legislation, is given the opportunity, as in the case of fuel debt and transportation, to reduce gas consumption to the technological minimum consumption. Is that what you want? They were talking about the IMF. But wait, if we let the rate rise for housing services, we'll get to the balance sheet. In 2011, 500 000 citizens took advantage of subsidies, 2012 - 2 million, and this year will be more. What's the IMF for? We really need to take responsibility and not cut back, not increase the budget spending on what we can cover and so on. We have a small choice: either we support the government's initiative or we don't. And I remind all the Ukrainian people's deputies, especially the majority, of any human being. You're not suggesting anything, a long-term program for a few years, you're nothing today, but you're not offering anything today except slogans and screams. But any person can go to the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and see, especially when there's no heat in the house, in the garden, in the school or in the hospital, who has voted, and for the law that can't allow trouble in our house. Not by yelling, not by raping, but by normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u58	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 51 of Part Four of the Rules, I give the floor to the replication of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u59	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to clarify what's going on here in the Supreme Council. Under specific circumstances, specific issues need to be addressed. There is a huge problem with payments, debt, and the economic activity of some businesses. But what happens now? And what does the oligarchs offer? This is about the fact that the so-called opposition is now confirming its position that it will be implementing a memorandum of the International Monetary Fund on raising tariffs. They claimed that tariffs should be raised. And that means that it's the citizens that are going to be able to raise tariffs out of your pockets, and so the coins that you don't have. They have now openly stated that they are in favour of increasing inflation, which already means that not only for citizens will there be a problem, but there will be a collapse for the economy as a whole. They also said today that you don't have to cancel the siege of Ukraine, you have to make a decision now and you have to knock it all down, so let's say, "Fucking father," everything in Ukraine needs to be overturned. Now the so - called opposition offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u61	And the last. I would like to remind you once again that there is no good word about the fascists who are, unfortunately, present in the Supreme Council, as well as the bandits from BUTU, well, we don't have to wait here. And we have to vote in the Express newspaper that they write for themselves, what kind of bandits they are today, having the mandate of a national MP. It's a Lviv newspaper, by the way! In the Express, read yours. Ask me what you need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u62	The final word of the reporter. Minister of Darkness Hennaday Pavlovich, do you wish? Final, for the closing word. You don't. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Geller Yevgen Borisovich. Lock it. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u63	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I'm asking everyone to calm down. And I want to tell our voters not to listen to the opposition's provocative statements about what it will do to the population's tariffs. The only thing that will result is the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to restructure the actual budget debt in different tariffs by issuing treasury bills. I therefore ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u64	Please prepare for the vote. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the draft Act (registration number 3358) amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 on the restructuring of actual budgetary debt through the issuance of financial treasury bills. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[16:54:35]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u65	Turn on the microphone. Turn on Heller's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u66	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to ask for a bill as a whole as stated in the Committee's decision that the Committee has decided to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, as is the objection, let's work. We took it as a basis, and we'll consider it on the following Sunday. Let's assign the committee to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Let's vote. I ask you to vote: prepare the committee for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:56:28]] For 233 Against 54, held – 6, not voted – 101. Decision taken. I didn't realize all the decisions were made, and what are the questions? What questions are there? Dear National Deputies! I'd like a minute, Geller, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Wait a minute, that's too much. I want to say that the committee made a decision on its committee yesterday to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole, because to work on the committee. I don't see what to do here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u69	We voted with you, took the floor, and entrusted the committee with a reduced procedure to prepare, and on the following plenary Sunday, we will make a decision. Draft Law 3312 is under consideration. The committee hasn't considered it, so I'm taking down the law. We'll look at the committee, make a proposal, we'll look into it. Project 2288a -- neither has the committee, nor does it. Yes, the draft law is under consideration. Why are you so loud? Is there a rally or something? It shouldn't be. Sit down, relax, let's work. The draft Laws 3295 and 3295-1 is under consideration: amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the use of the State part of the produced product in accordance with the distribution agreements). How do we view it? If you support a reduced procedure, vote. [[16:59:14]] For-195 Decision taken. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Mikolaajovich Rudzkowski. Please report, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, you have before you a draft Act amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for the use of the state part of the produced product in accordance with the distribution agreement). Today, article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce provides that the use of the State-produced portion of produce takes into account the needs of the relevant territory. At the same time, the directing of a piece of government-produced produce to local needs cannot be done in practice, since the Budget Code contains appropriate provisions. And we need to make changes to the Budget Code. What's the point? That when the Law on the Distribution of Produce in a Territory produces, for example, solar gas, part of it goes to the state budget. According to the Production Distribution Act, part of the funds can be allocated to local budgets, but the Budget Code does not provide for this right. And that's why we're giving these changes an opportunity to figure out how the government decides a certain amount of money that's going to go for the local budgets. By the way, what I'm saying is that we need to actually extend this approach to other natural resources, where there's a charge for nerve money, so that some of the funds are not only in the State budget, but also in the local budgets. So if there's damage to the environment or there's discomfort for, say, a populated site or area.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u71	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u72	With some work done in the area, they would be compensated by coming to local budgets. The alternative bill, which is presented, is passed. He's more specific about certain amounts to be paid to a particular budget. I think such suggestions can be considered in the second reading. But the room needs to be made clear. Thank you for your attention, and I think it is very appropriate that the government supports such proposals. This is the reallocation of funds from the central level to the local level.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u73	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, sit down. National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Bondanovic Derevyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The problems that my Bill 3295-1 solves are very relevant today, because our desire for Ukraine's energy independence and, including, the agreements that we have today in solar gas, agreed on the Kharkiv area and the Western region, foresees that we have invested powerful investors. And it's my bill that regulates and decides on the financing of those communities where solar gas production will take place, including. This is about the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the region of Lviv, the region of Kharkiv, the area of Donetsk and the Lugansk region, including. It's an alternative, and the whole point of the alternative is that it's broader. First, what difference does it make? Because it predicts no less than 10 percent of the nation’s profits will be directed to local communities. It's very important. Second, this share is foreseen for distribution, namely, 25 percent for rural, village councils, 25 percent for district councils, 50 percent for district councils. Next, we understand very well that the local budgets are now being formed for seven or nine months, and we understand very well that it is important for these funds to come into the development budget. Because if the budget is not enough, we need all the funds that come from other revenue to focus on the protected articles -- wages, social benefits. Communication services, energy supplies. So my bill predicts that these costs go into the development budget, which is very important, because this is the only source to use in the rural gardens, in the FAP, in support of their clubs, in their infrastructure, because it is in the communities that the solar gas and other useful fossils will be extracted. In addition, this approach provides for a European approach when it comes to direct and guaranteed community funding, I mean rural councils, district councils and district councils, unlike my fellow MP Rudzkowski. Besides, my bill is forewarned.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u75	Finish up, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u76	In addition, my bill provides for 100 percent protection for the vast number of communities where solar gas will be produced. Remember, this is Lugansk, Donetskka, Kharkivsk, Lvivsk, Ivano-Frankivsk district. So let's support our communities, our communities in the east and the west. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u77	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions. Please, the Freedom Union, the Orotyuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Irina Sech.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u79	Please give Irina Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u80	Dear Society, if we are going to adopt those bills that are currently under consideration, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine should refrain from signing and registering an agreement on the distribution of products for the Olezka and Jusowsk area until the validity of these bills becomes effective. What is it? Having been adopted, these bills can only remain a beautiful declaration, unfortunately, because they do not establish the obligation of the parties to the agreement to include such a redistribution of funds in the relevant agreements and to recognize those conditions as essential, which means “compulsory”. In other words, Rudzikowski's proposals, the Wooden woman, cannot work without amending the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, namely in the part of the articles: Article 8 "Victories to the Agreement on Distribution of Produce", Article 9 "Special Conditions for Contracts for Distribution of Produce", Article 21 "Usage of the State Part of Produced in accordance with the Agreement on Distribution of Produce". It is very important to make these changes before the signing and registration of an agreement on the distribution of products in the Olezka area, Yuszowska and all other similar agreements, since after this point article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for the Distribution of Produce will enter into force, according to which the State guarantees: the rights and obligations of the investor as defined in the contract on distribution of products during the period will apply legislation of action – attention, society! – at the time of conclusion of the agreement, except for legislation that reduces or cancels taxes or assemblies, it simplifies regulation of economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u82	State oversight in the field of economic activity has softened the responsibility of the investor. And the number of investors, according to the agreement, refers not only to the foreign investor, but also to the native, the Oleski, the Nadro "Yzewski", through which the state realizes its right to a share in production. In other words, if the relevant amendments to the Budget Code, especially the Law on Contracts for Distribution Agreements, are to be made in respect of the redistribution of the public share.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u83	Thank you, thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian company, National Deputy Balandin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u84	Please pass on the word of Bidovk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u85	Poor people's MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u86	Of course, everything here sounds good, and it's going to happen to people anyway. And it's like it's just local budgets. But let's start with the main thing. And who asked our people, do they want this salt gas to be obtained on their land? The one that France, Germany and other countries rejected. Who said the salt gas would do us good? Even today, this company Shell, even in the United States, suffers loss and protest against the population. Why do people today who say that they are going to Europe fight for the European Union and not put the opinion of the people of the country, especially the areas where the solar gas is taking place? Why have Western district councils and local councils today opposed the will of their constituent citizens and supported the production of salt gas? Doesn't that smell like gas? Does it smell like other things? Therefore, we, the communists, call for a referendum on all fossils and similar issues on local budgets. Today, this institution will be able to take the best interests of our citizens into account, not those companies that are going to make billions, to bury the region's environment, and then to throw people off as a donation, some money. I'll tell you again. It's a company to solve them in referendums. And they didn't hold a finger on people's ears that it would be so good for them that they'd have solar gas in their territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u87	The Fatherland faction, Yavorovsky Vladimir. Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski. I give my word to my colleague, Mikola Tomenka, with a pure heart, believing that he would say something very clever on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u89	You took 20 seconds from him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I will immediately tell you that the faction will support the bill of Yuri Derevyanka. Because we are absolutely convinced that in such special matters, the local community should understand that it may lose something, but it compensates for those losses by obtaining funds and solving environmental and social problems. But for us, I wanted to point out that when there was a history of solar gas, I and my colleagues, Andrew Kožemiakin and Arsen Avakov, had registered a bill where we said that there were three problems that needed to be solved. By fully supporting the ideologies of Ukraine’s energy security, we have proposed to address the environmental security of the people and communities that are in place, to offer funding compensators, and to find out that there will be a problem in the distribution of products, which I would like to refer to as a family or a child’s firm. How much money and what's going on, the family or the children's firm, when it comes to the nadar of Ukraine," these are the three problems that we have to solve. So we have an environmental issue, and we still have to think about how to solve it. They touched on the topic of the compensator to the local communities. And thank God there is such an approach. Once again, I would like to emphasize why Yuri Derevyanko is absolutely right about the numbers and, above all, the figures for the village council. Because today we have a paradoxical situation. If you are in a rural area, ask the village heads today what is happening to the budget. Today there are rural councils that have made money in a year. They have district administrations today, district officials are taking funds because they are unable to keep the area, the areas under such budgetary formation, and the chaos with the treasury. So we are no one interested in supporting the village, the city, or the community. So, my friends, our faction will support this bill. And hopefully it's not just solar gas, it's natural gas. Mr. Rudzkowski knows what it is. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u91	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. National MP Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u92	Rizanenko, strike party faction. A very important bill that really determines that the portion of the income that will be generated from these distribution agreements will be guaranteed to reach local budgets, as it was not foreseen. At least 10 percent of the income will be included in local budgets. This is provided both in one bill and in an alternative. But Mr. Derevyanka’s second draft determines exactly what budgets, how much money will be received, how 50 will be distributed, 25 Paradises, and 25 local councils. The most important principle of difference in these laws is that in Mr. Rudzikowski’s bill, the funds will go to the general fund of the second basket and, according to Mr. Derevyanka’s bill, to the development fund. And even though the second basket is better than the first basket, we know what is the debt of treasury to local budgets. And now the first basket is empty. The council has nothing left, local self-government, how to use the money from the second basket on the first. So it's a very important difference. We support both bills, but especially Mr. Derevyanka’s bill, since budgeting for development allows guaranteed that these funds will go, will be used for the development of the community. And these are essentially revenue from. Rents or, say, national wealth and should not be eaten. They should ensure the future permanent development of the community. Please support Mr. Derevyanka’s bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u93	Thank you. Desires made a statement. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies. Prepare for the vote. Don't run. Have a seat. Does the buffet work there? Where is the people? I would like to vote on the draft Act (No.3295) amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the use of the State part of the produced product in accordance with the distribution agreements). This is Ukraine’s national MP Rudzikowski Mikolayovich proposed as a basis for acceptance. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:16:24]] For 202 Against -1, held – 82, did not vote – 92. The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the draft Act (No.3295-1) amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the use of the State part of the produced product in accordance with the distribution agreements). This is a project by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Drevjanka Yuri Bogdanović, to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[17:17:13]] For 348 So let's do a dozen more laws there, and let's do it this way. Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 42. Decision taken. The factions. Well, it's nice to watch. A draft Act (No. 2049a) on amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the settlement of immovable property relations) is under consideration. What's your wish? How will we view it? Short? Vote. Please vote, summary procedure. [[17:18:05]] For 196 Decision taken. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the settlement of real estate rights). What is proposed by this bill? It is proposed that property rights derived from property rights arising may be registered before 1 January 2013 before the state registration of property for such immovable property. It is also suggested that the order of information that is stored in register books and registrations formed by BTI companies be regulated in order to ensure access to this information to State registries and notaries. Cancel the fee for making changes to the State Register of Real Estate Rights records, and pay only for providing information on repairs of technical errors that have been made in connection with the incomplete package of documents filed for the applicant’s fault. To ensure that the State Register of Real Estate Rights is filled with real estate data from registers that were issued by 1 January 2013 in the form of a government register of mortgages, real estate loads. As well as freeing state authorities and local self - government authorities from paying for the withdrawal from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. First, this bill will reduce the costs of citizens when they apply to the government authorities for real estate registration in connection with what I said would be cancelled for changes and information to the register. It will create real estate rights for physical and legal persons who have been created and registered before 1 January 2013. It will also ensure the proper exercise of its powers by the State registrar in view of the fact that the Final Positions are offered by the Technical Inventory Bureau within three months of taking effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u96	Thank you. transfer register books and registrations that are state property. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u97	Thank you. Have a seat. What questions? What questions? What did you vote for? It's a short-term procedure. Alexander Volodymyrically, you can teach me, but you're confusing me! The head of the Economic Policy Committee, Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, will report. Don't you insist? I beg you, are you willing to discuss it? Please sign up for factions. You don't? I'll see. Please, the Fatherland faction, the Medunica People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u98	Please pass on the word of Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u99	Let's get Xenia to Liapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u100	Thank you. Kseniya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!"the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, this bill is, indeed, necessary, because it is trying to solve the problem that has arisen today in the area of registration. The main problem that this bill is aimed at today is that a large amount of information about those registrations that were before the register was introduced into the register is still in the BTI and cannot be used in the registration of new actions with this property. So this bill proposes to ensure that public registrants have access to such matters so that they can use them, verify information and create an appropriate additional chapter of the register, where new actions will be made with property that is currently not transferred, which is not transferred to the registers, that is, in fact, the problem that is now urgent. However, we also have a number of comments about this bill: some standards are read ambiguously, and there is the impression that there will be some limitations on rights. We can't assume that. That is why we propose to adopt this bill as a basis and to further develop it accordingly for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u101	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u102	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u103	Let's give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u104	Mikhailo Golovko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union 164th District of Ternopil. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we've met that we've been offered bills by the Cabinet to improve the state registration system of the right to movable property. But we saw that this system, which was adopted last year, is unfortunately adopted by power, doing everything from the rear forward, that is, putting the cart in front of the horses. They accepted a reform that had virtually stopped working. And what did we see? Since January 1, practically in the first quarter, three months, we have completely stopped the real estate market. People stood in great queues, did not work in the registration service, notaries refused to reshape the testimony of ownership, and many such problems. In the end, we are forced to practically make new and new amendments to the law each month in order to regulate this system. The bill is positive, and it is worth supporting, despite some remarks. That is, in fact, the settlement of the matter is related to obtaining state registration agencies and notarys of information stored in register books and registrations formed by BTI companies, which is a positive one. It is envisaged that public authorities and local self - government authorities should be released from salaries for granting an exemption from the State Register the right to register their burdens. And to determine that a certificate of ownership of immovable property is now issued when an object is divided into one or more compatible immovable property objects. This is a positive norm. The only negative thing is that the bill is being annulled today is the mandatory burden of filing an application for cessation of the burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u105	Yaroslav Suhi Regional Party Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u106	Please give the floor to an expert on the improvement of the mechanism for the state registration of property rights, to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Inna Hermanovna Bogoslovskaya.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u107	Please, Another Godsister.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u108	Thank you, Jaroslav. Dear colleagues! I also supported those MPs who proposed to support the bill in the first reading. But I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the huge problem that this bill has put in. There is a rule here that only the applicant will be responsible for the reliability of the data provided to the State registry. This will help those dishonest officials who are now making corrupt schemes, refusing one another and gratifying the claims of others, especially on disputed sites. And this creates a huge criminal chain in the registration system. So I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the assumption that this is the norm, because in our current circumstances, it's going to produce huge schemes of raiding land and property. Therefore, the first reading should support this bill, the second to make changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u109	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u110	And I'm asking you to pass the word to the People's Deputy of the Vitalia Klicka faction, Oxani Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u111	Oksana Sold, beg.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the project currently under consideration, especially its name, is very important today and needs business. First of all, because today, in order to register property rights for its real estate, which already belongs to business, in order to start a real job, those investors who have so little left in Ukraine are forced to pay $4 per square metre of real estate in the State Register. And no matter where your real estate is, no matter what destination of this property, even if it's a zero-produced real estate, it's still impossible to register in the Real Estate Register without $4 per square meter. So, of course, the changes that are now being proposed with the comments, but generally in the first edition, you have to accept them. Take it to make the procedures transparent first. Secondly, it is necessary to foresee mechanisms in which holders of the register are not entitled, first, to make their own decisions, and secondly, to be required to answer in an orderly manner for refusals that are made unlawfully. That's why the Vitalia Klitka faction votes in favour of this project, just like everyone else, who's focused on transparency and anti-corruption in the economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u113	Thank you. The committee's proposal is Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. And we'll vote. Invite MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u114	Volodymyr Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered the bill at its meeting and made a unanimous decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u115	Thank you. I am betting on voting, honourable national MPs, to vote on draft Law No. 2049a: amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the settlement of immovable property relations) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:29:44]] For 342 Against 0, held – 2, not voted – 47. Decision taken. The factions. We vote as agreed, everyone. That's good. Draft Law 3092 is under consideration: the amendment to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Improving the Mechanism of State Support for Hosting Subjects, which implements investment projects in priority sectors of the economy. How do we view it? Anyone for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:30:48]] For-183 Decision taken. There's a lot of brothers here, and I have a brother. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Alexanderovich Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u116	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed for consideration was designed by the Government to carry out the President’s mandate to improve the public support mechanism for investment activities of economic operators in priority economic activities and to prevent unjustified budget losses. The bill proposes to establish the only time limits at the time of exemption from the payment of import duties and the possibility of issuing VAT bills, to introduce bank confirmation by means of a VAT billing shaft, to foresee, in case of non-target use of equipment, equipment and equipment, a mechanism such that the subject loses the possibility of issuing VAT bills in subsequent import operations, as well as to establish the financial responsibility of such operators for improper implementation of investment projects. We stress that the adoption of the bill will prevent unwarranted budget losses in import operations and facilitate the execution of investment and social obligations by entities when implementing investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy. I'd like to support you, distinguished national deputies, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u117	Thank you, sit down. I'd like to see your report. to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u118	Thank you. Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee considered at its meeting a bill submitted and drafted by the Government of 3092. The rapporteur was presented with the substance of the bill. The proposed changes are aimed at strengthening the overall applicable legislative requirements for the use of economic operators that implement investment projects in priority areas of the economy. I'm not going to repeat myself, the bill is not that big and the basic positions have been presented by the government representative. The committee proposes to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u119	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Freedom, National MP Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u120	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u121	We give the word to the People's Deputy Blawaki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u122	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The U.S. Freedom Union will refrain from enacting the law in general and on a basis, because we need to make a very large number of changes and proposals that we've made on the committee so far not taken into account. Today, if you look at and look at the title of the law itself, it's good intentions. It's a beautiful headline, but no one gets anything except the oligarchs and clans who are now just eating where the Ukrainian budget is being used and robbed. How can a shipbuilding branch be considered a priority today, respected, respected society? You tell me, please, I'm driving to the Mikolai, three factories have been running, how many ships have been built in the last 10 years? What are we talking about today? What's going on? Everything's closed, the factories are standing, they're cut out. The oligarchs today own factories in parliament, today lobbying for interests and lobbying for the interests of the great capital. We will not support this further because today all seaports are transferred to concessions, and families are also transferred to concessions handed over to the oligarchic clans who are now profiting millions, hundreds of millions of dollars. The state gets nothing out of it. Although some a billion dollars had previously been invested in each port for modernization, reconstruction, construction of new warehouses, and new facilities through the Ministry’s Office. This is all that is being done today, once again, stresses that today the government of the state is not working for the state, protecting and continuing to build such schemes of corruption. And today they only work in the pocket of the oligarchs. We hold back and call for this law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u123	Please, National Deputy Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u124	The rhetoric of colleagues from the Freedom Party and faction is very similar to the rhetoric of our Communist colleagues. They speak practically the same words, accusing the oligarchs and so forth. With only the difference that communists help Euro-integration and vote for Euro-integration laws, and Freedom ignores them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, I urge the opposition to bear in mind that the law that leads Ukraine to European standards of living is currently under consideration, and this law needs to be voted on, not sought in the country of enemies. It was for Freedom that the Communists were enemies, now the oligarchs were enemies. We need to find friends in this room, and in Ukraine, all over the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u125	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u126	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u127	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the amendments proposed by this bill, first of all, to those provisions that were approved at the end of 2012 before the parliamentary elections, before the sixth vocation came to the seventh vocation. What was then accepted? The law, which is now being proposed to change, has been in force since January 1, 2013, and is not yet a year old. Then it was predicted that the priority sectors of the economy, which would invest in economic development, would be freed from VAT for that moment. On equipment, on equipment that's not taxed by customs until 2022. Now that project under consideration, 2022 is proposed to change in 2017. Thus, even a year has not passed since the Party of Regions changed its position and determined that the priority sectors of the economy are probably investing in the economy of Ukraine. In addition to the future payment of VAT in the face of promises and contrary to the law in force today, there are also limitations on these areas, which are again defined by law and by a government acting as a priority in the investment sphere. Limit the possibility of issuing tax notes. And this is at a time when tax bills are the only thing left for manufacturers to import instead of those treasury bills that were introduced this year again by a functioning majority. The strike faction never supports anti-business and anti-national projects. That's why we're not voting for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u128	Thank you. The Communist faction, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u129	Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs order, nobody has any doubts, especially when it comes to perspectives, so that they are not subject to speculation and the purposeless use of money. I don't think anyone has any doubt as to the correctness of making a decision. But I would also like to state that the faction of the Company takes the lead: we are parliamentarians of the Ukrainian Parliament, of the Ukrainian State, of the Ukrainian people, not of the European State, of the Union. And not for the European Union, but for the people of Ukraine. Therefore, the faction of the Company always uses only one principle: it votes in favour of laws that have some positive consequences for the people of Ukraine, for those who work today, and for those who want the state to defend its interests. And this position is finding the support of our citizens. So once again, I want to state that laws need to be passed, not for European countries, but for the people of Ukraine here. That's where the Company stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u130	The discussion is over. And we'll vote. And then I'm going to give a line to the Freedom Union. I'm betting on a draft bill, please prepare the National Deputies (No. 3092) to amend Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation on Improving the Mechanism of State Support for Hostages, which implements investment projects in priority sectors of the economy for adoption. Please vote. [[17:41:16]] For 230 Against 56, held – 39, not voted – 64. Decision taken. The factions. People's MP, Kyle, lineup, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u131	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, there was a line here that, you know, resembles the texts in the German Gebels cards when it comes to UPA. So I would like to emphasize and show the difference between nationalists and communists. Nationalists in this session hall expose corruption schemes, criticize the current regime and vote accordingly. Unlike your allies, who from the rostrum seem to act for the people and then quietly indulge in loose conduct and vote in harmony with the oligarchs. And this can be seen in today’s vote on all matters of the day when they support you and rob the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u132	A draft Act (number 2183a) is under consideration to amend the Water and Land Codes of Ukraine regarding the land of the water fund. How do we view it? I can hear it short, I can hear it. I'm betting on a brief vote on this issue. [[17:43:03]] For-187 Decision taken. We'll be working today for up to 18 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u133	No, no, yeah. No, no, yeah. Please. The minister himself has arrived. Come on, meet me again. Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Proscurakov Oleg Albertovich You've got two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u134	Good afternoon. Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft act was designed to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and to solve problems of establishing coastal protection lanes of water objects. Current legislation requires the establishment of the boundaries of the coastal protection lanes of all without excluding water objects under separate land projects by an arrangement designed in accordance with the prescribed law. In doing so, the law that defines how such projects are to be developed is not available. In particular, the absence of a legal definition of how to design land projects with regard to the setting up of coastal protection lanes of water objects does not allow for a proper settlement of the conservation situation of coastal areas. Even in the case of the adoption of a law on the definition of such a procedure for the development of individual land projects, the establishment of coastal protection strips of water objects will require considerable cost and time. The draft Act proposes to amend article 60 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, article 88 of the Ukrainian Water Code on the establishment of boundaries of coastal protection strips of water objects outside populated areas without the development of separate high-value projects by land structure, and by ensuring the application of direct rules on the breadth of these strips. At the same time, within the populated areas, coastal protection strips of water objects will be set up by city - based documentation and land administration documentation. The implementation of these regulations is estimated by the State Department to save some 5 billion dollars as a result of the cancellation of the need to develop individual projects with more than 100,000 water objects in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u135	Thank you. Have a seat. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Irina Igorovna Sekh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u136	Honorary Society, the bill proposes to make changes that would allow the boundaries of coastal waterways to be established without the development of individual land projects. It is also positive that the bill expands objects belonging to the Water Fund. That is, streams, streams, lakes, and lemons that need to be automatically created by coastal protection strips and for them. It is also envisaged that coastal water lanes will be installed within the populated areas, using city - based documentation and land administration documentation. The disadvantage of the bill is that there is still an unregulated procedure for fixing the boundaries of coastal protection lanes under simplified procedures, there is no definition of who and at what cost these works should be carried out and establishing information signs, etc. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also highlighted these shortcomings and noted that the first reading of the draft Law can be adopted on the basis of comments made. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill had no impact on the budget. The committee proposes the adoption of a draft Act amending Ukraine’s Lands Code and Water Codes for the Water Fund. The purpose of the bill is to resolve problems with the establishment of coastal lines of water objects, as well as to clarify and harmonize the relevant standards of the Ukrainian Code of Land and the Code of Water. According to the current legislation, the boundaries of the coastal protection strips should be established by individual projects through a land structure that is developed in accordance with the order provided for in the law. Regrettably, there is no law to determine how such projects are to be developed today. As a result, coastal protection lanes in the area are blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u137	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Willing to Discuss? Please register who wants the faction. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the Smoking People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u138	People's deputy to the Kurennay. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Averchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u139	Please, National Deputy Averchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! People's Deputy Averchenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. What the bill has said is that it details and harmonizes the standards of the Codex Earth and Water. And since the Vitalia Klicka faction consistently advocates access for all citizens, under the level of access for all citizens to water objects, our faction will support this bill. And in the second reading, there's a footnote, we'll take it into account. I think it'll be a normal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u141	Thank you. Vote? The faction of the Party of the Regions, Zuravsky, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u142	Well, of course I'll support it, because it's a good bill. This is about clarifying article 60 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and article 88 of the Codex Water. The project allows for a more rapid solution to the issue of setting the boundaries of coastal lanes. It is estimated that within the populated areas, coastal protection strips are installed with city building documents and land - based documentation. It's a professional committee for pros, it's a government for pros, and it's the scientific and scientific administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for pros. A party of regions is calling for MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u143	Freedom Union, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u144	Please pass on your right to speak to Andrey Tsagnibokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u145	Please, Andrew Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u146	Andrew Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 125 constituency, Lviv. Dear Society, the disagreements between the Earth Code and the Water Code, we finally have in this bill, which is that the problems that are between these two laws are, in part, in agreement with the bill. "Freedom" will vote in favour of this bill and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u147	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u148	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. The bill is good, but it needs to be worked out. The point is that we have some of the practical actions of local authorities that alert us. In Kiev, in particular, many water springs, lakes, streams, rivers, and ponds have somehow become firehouses. Thus, there is no regulation of firehouses and coastal areas. So if the local authorities, without any restrictions, are able to transfer any lake of fire water, they can be built on the shoreline, and the lake can be washed. The same applies to the use of coastal areas when they are digested and added by a half - hectare of water dancing, converted into a sandy basin or vice versa, and washed away the land that is next door. Therefore, in the second reading, it is imperative that such possible transformations of water sources themselves and possible transformations of their status as defined by the law of lakes, streams, rivers, or ponds be made into completely uncontrollable firehouse status. So I think that the profile committee, and I'm going to make these proposals, I have to go over this bill in the second reading, and then it'll be good, and it'll be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u149	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared ourselves, we have voted. I am voting on draft Act 2183a amending the Ukrainian Water and Land Code for Water Fund Land. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:53:02]] For 306 Against - 1, held - 10, did not vote - 63. Decision taken. The factions. Draft Act No. 2072: amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the issue of securities is under consideration. Please, who supports the reduced procedure, vote. Please vote. [[17:53:41]] For 193 Decision taken. Reported to the head of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market, Dmitri Mikhailovich Telleliev. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the issue of securities. The bill was drafted by the National Commission to implement paragraphs 26-1 and 27-1 of the "National Action Plan 2012". The bill introduces new types of corporate bonds, such as market, infrastructure, and concession bonds. The institution of general congregations of corporate bond holders is established, and signs and consequences of corporate bond default are established. With a view to modernizing the process of issuances of securities, the bill proposes to impose a requirement for the public placing of securities exclusively on the stock market. This will reduce the risks for issuers and investors in the part of the settlement and contract implementation. With a view to simplifying reporting for issuers who have made private distributions of securities, the bill provides for simplification for such issuers in order to publish annual and special information in the form of annual reporting. In addition, the bill proposes to establish a subsidiary responsibility of an auditor who signs a prospectus for the issuance of securities for the damage caused by the issuer to an investor as a result of the presence in such a prospectus of unreliable information. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will enhance the efficiency and reliability of the securities market and increase the investment attractiveness of the corporate bond market. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u151	Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u152	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, this bill we discussed on the committee on April 16th of this year. And I want to point out that this bill is really very useful to me. Because, first of all, he refines certain terms, second of all, he introduces concepts like corporate bonds, among which they can be. and structural bonds issued for the implementation of public private partnership agreements. And that's really a very nice thing, because today, cities, you know, have very limited capabilities and it doesn't really work, unfortunately. So that's going to give some impetus just to invest in the infrastructure sector in cities. The main scientific and expert office reviewed the bill and made some comments and suggested that it be accepted in a second reading. Oh, sorry, in the first reading, and then take note of the second reading. The committee requests that the bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u153	If you want to talk about it, you can sign up for factions. Please, here comes the recording. Party of regions, National Deputy Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u154	Koleschenko, Party of the Regions. Of course, the proposed bill is necessary for our State. The Rapporteur made an important proposal to support him in his first reading. Well, those who "double" are "doubled" by what they're ashamed of, they don't understand two languages, as most of the room understands. Shame on them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u155	Freedom faction, national deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u156	Please give the floor to Deputy Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u157	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u158	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable fellow MPs, the draft law proposes the division of corporate bonds on infrastructure and on the market. It's worth noting that this economic division is not entirely valid because infrastructure bonds can have all the inherent features of market bonds, i.e. infrastructure bonds can be marketable at the same time. It is noteworthy that this bill provides for the public distribution of all securities exclusively on stock exchanges. We believe that such a change could have a negative impact on the issuer's ability to raise additional costs. This will not promote the sale of securities among small investors. We also consider one of the provisions that allows corporate bond holders the right to participate in the administration in cases provided for by law. This is contrary to the economic nature of bonds that are debt securities. The right to take part in the administration can be given to breathe with pied paper. One of the main novelties is the introduction of the Institute of Infrastructure Bonds. Infrastructural bonds are very common in CIS countries in the construction of large objects, since they are a very convenient way to invest in construction. The problem of using such a tool in Ukraine is a significant budget deficit, since the main investor, according to practice, is the state. So infrastructure bonds will be the cause of a significant budget deficit in the future when the bond payment deadline comes. Thus, the adoption of the bill can create preconditions for massive borrowing of funds into the budget in a context of a budgetary crisis and translate all problems into future periods. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u159	Vitalia Klitschka, National Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u160	Rizanenko, strike faction. Despite the fact that the bill is called upon to organize terminology, definition, renaming into corporate bonds and applying the term "market," it contains a number of flaws that prevent us from voting for it. We'll hold on. We think that this bill, in general, will not extend the possibility of borrowing the debt capital, but will narrow it down. It defines what "market bonds" and their requirements are such that: the issuer can't release them for more than three years; the issuer who has been registered for less than three years can't release them at all, and so on and so forth. This actually narrows down rather than widening the possibility of borrowing debt. So we hold back, we urge others not to vote. And if the bill goes through, we're going to bring it up to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u161	The discussion is over. Prepared for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Prepared for the vote. Read the rules, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right. One minute. Why are you sitting? You didn't sign up. Name your last name. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u162	Stepan of Cuba, the Fatherland faction. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished fellow MPs! This law and these changes are absolutely necessary today. We, according to the Strike and Freedom factions, made clear these observations that were not taken into account during our committee meeting. At the same time, during the discussion at the committee meeting, we made clear observations based on six points. First point. That when we read the title of the bill, it's completely inconvenient. Since we're only talking about the issue of securities, and in the bill itself we're talking about reporting, we're talking about the interaction of stock markets. It is proposed that corporate bonds be converted into corporate bonds. When we talk about the recognition of bonds issued by legal persons, corporate ones, it goes against certain legislative acts that are now in force. Third. Suggested in part 1 of article 8 on securities and stock markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u163	Thank you. Two words, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u164	At the same time, I would like to confirm that in the second reading, if these comments are supported, we will be supportive. Today we do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u165	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote, distinguished national MPs. Prepared to vote? I am voting on draft Law 2072: amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the issue of securities. To be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:04:02]] For 227 Against 37, held – 56, not a vote – 57. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We have two laws left. I can see that. But let's hear it, you haven't heard it yet, but you're getting divorced. Well, listen. Look, he's a respected general, he's one, and there's a colonel general, he's the other. So let's think about these two questions right now: 2053a and 2498. The general of the south sat. What a shame! Let's take a look. The Law (2053a) on Amendments to Article 12 of the Law on Environmental Auditing is under consideration. How do we view it? Vote for the reduced procedure. [[6:05:38]] For 186 Two laws. Let's be respectful. People came to us. I would like to invite you to the report of the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Oleg Albertovich Proscurakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u166	Well, first of all, I want to thank you for supporting the previous bill. And this really shows that ecology is the field that should unite the country. Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources to implement the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since 15 January 2010 on State regulations in the field of waste management regarding mandatory environmental audit in the event of liquidation or exploitation of environmentally hazardous enterprises. The aim of amendments to the draft law is to meet the requirements of Ukraine’s environmental legislation in the process of sequencing enterprises, as well as to assess the impact of environmentally hazardous objects, disposals of enterprises on the environment and human health after they have been eliminated or closed. The implementation of the bill is carried out by amending part of article 12 of the current Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act on mandatory environmental audit, paragraph four: "Transfer to long-term leases of public or municipal property" in the following edition: "Transfer on leases of entire property complexes of state and municipal enterprises and organizations, their structural units." In addition, part three of article 12 of the Act is proposed to be supplemented by the following paragraphs: “Exclusion from the operation of objects, liquidation of a legal person who owns or uses objects or conducts activities that constitute enhanced environmental security”. The proposed changes to the law specify the general principles of environmental audit for sites that pose an increased environmental risk and define the characteristics of public oversight in the area of mandatory environmental audit. Specific examples argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u168	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u169	I'm asking the head of the committee. Thank you. For the report. Irina Igorovna Sekh. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, the main purpose of the bill is to introduce an environmental audit in the event of liquidation or exit from the operation of environmentally hazardous enterprises. In particular, the list of such cases is proposed to be supplemented by the following. Exploitation of a legal person who owns or uses objects or conducts activities that constitute increased environmental security. A valid rule regarding the carrying out of such an audit in the long - term rental of public or municipal property is proposed to be replaced with the rental of full-scale property complexes of state and municipal enterprises and organizations and structural units. The main scientific and expert management and the general support of this legislative initiative, has some observations. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Willing to Discuss Je? They've been recorded by factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Illenko, Faction of Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u171	Please hand it over to Andrey Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u172	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u173	Andrew Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 125 constituency, Lviv. Dear society, we meet, especially on the environmental committee, we face the challenges that have been left behind by enterprises that have been working on the development of our natural resources. It's about the Donbas mines, and the Lviv mines, and the potassium mines, and in principle the enterprises that were involved in the mining or dangerous environmental problems of production. If the issue of environmental audit is not introduced, we will remain alone with our problems. A simple example: even if businesses are now being sold, if they are being transferred to a long-term lease, owners, new owners, they are always interested in taking only what is liquid. And the problems remain with the people, the problem remains with those, in the state, in the area, in the administration. Accordingly, this bill will allow us, if we introduce this bill, we will adopt the law, the environmental audit will allow us to eliminate these problems and save our state funds. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support the bill and vote in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u174	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u175	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, a very good bill and should be voted on as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u176	I'll bet you a vote. Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u177	I would like, dear friends, to point out that there are thousands of environmental objects in Ukraine today. In particular, in the area of the Sanhedrin district in Kiev is the so-called Berlin Laboratory, which in its time produced these mirrors for steels technology. There's not supposed to be people within 40 kilometers of it, and there's an entire Academic City. Also in the Sanhedrin region are the remains of a plant that used to release elements to microbiological weapons, thousands of other objects in Ukraine. But what I want to say is that if this law is passed, it has to ensure that both the businessmen and us, as citizens, are with you, that it doesn't turn into spending public and other money and business money to then blackmail them and issue lip service. The audit should be public, the audit should guarantee objectivity, and the outcome of the audit should be the removal of severe environmental consequences or the causes of their formation in one area or another. I've already mentioned that in Ukraine today, there are such objects in every village, these are former chemicals. Today they flow and flow into the rivers, into the lakes, today there are many such objects, but no one is conducting any audits. Therefore, this law should not be turned into a blackmailing rod or a money - laundering stick, but I say again that it should not be taken away from the object of the unpleasant particles and left uncontrollable, but that it was used by someone who needed a piece of hair. Therefore, work should be done if it is accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u178	May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote. We have one minute left. People's Deputy Sold. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u179	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I thank you very much for your compliance with the Rules and I appeal to the people's deputies about the bill. This bill seems to be designed to improve the environmental situation in Ukraine. In fact, ecology in Ukraine needs considerable effort and power, and the public, and experts. But will this bill specifically improve the environmental situation in Ukraine? No, of course not. Why? The project consists of only three points that are added to the responsibilities of conducting an environmental audit. So it's proposed to conduct environmental audits now not only in the rental of state and municipal enterprises in the long term, but also in any case. What will this lead to? This will result in public funds, utilities that are still not to be made available to misunderstood public or private enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u180	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u181	Thank you very much. This will lead to another corruption that is already now called in Poltava, for example, an ecological racket. Therefore, I ask the people's deputies not to support this bill, and Vladimir Vasilovich is asking to abide by the Rules and close today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-10-10-m1.u182	We're going to vote now. And I'm going to close because there's no understanding under the second law, so I'm going to close it down. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I'm betting on a draft Act No. 2053a amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act (for objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard) to be accepted as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[6:16:55]] For 252 Is such a mood to be separated? 252, versus 0, held – 8, not voted – 54. Decision taken. I declare the evening session closed and thank you all for your work.
