ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:13:09]] There were 397 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? The meeting that I had, the Conciliation Council of Faction Leaders, we decided to consider drafts of the Law on the re-election of Ukrainian National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call in some one-member constituencies in view of the implausible establishment of the vote and the results of the elections of Ukraine’s national deputies on October 28, 2012. We have three laws: Law 2971, Law 2971-1 and Law 2971-d. Various meetings were held. It was decided to review all the laws. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Zwani David Važajevich to report on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three bills, two bills: 2971 and 2971-1. These two bills are essentially the same in terms of elections in one-maned districts where it is not possible to establish the results of the elections. In view of the need to find compromise, the commission was entrusted to the committee, with the commission of the chairman of the Supreme Council to draft an alternative bill that would be drafted by all interested persons and factions. Such a bill was drafted by the committee – No. 2971-d. This bill takes into account all the proposals made by factions and interested persons. Thus, the committee believes that Bill 2971-d is the only law that is agreed upon today by the Ukrainian Parliament, and can today resolve the issue that has become public around the world in troubled districts. That's why we're proposing to vote in favour of Law 2971-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u3	You tell me how many districts these elections are going to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u4	This bill now deals with five districts: 94, 132, 194, number 197, number 223. The date of the election, which. Huh? On August 18th, the date no longer exists, so the factions' heads decided on the date of the election for December 15th. [[B in m in s a l in]] With these changes, today's request to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u5	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u6	In view of the fact that this bill is discussed by all factions and is consistent with the heads of the factions of the request for a vote without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u7	I'm asking for your attention! I'm asking you a very serious question! [[B in m in s a l in]] I bet. Please prepare for the vote, national MPs! Please prepare for the vote! The Conciliation Council took a decision: without discussion to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft Law (No2971-d) on the re-election of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the seventh call in some one-member constituencies in view of the implausible establishment of the vote and the results of the elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012. To conduct them, I say, is a proposal made on December 15, 2011. Such a project is proposed as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:19:28]] For 371 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 33. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 67, Vitalia Klicka - 34, Freedom - 31, Company - 31, non-fractional - 23. Bills 2971 and 2971-1 have been rejected. There's no motive in the Rules. Peter Mikolaiovich. I beg you, Peter Mikolaiovich, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention, first of all, to the new practice of lawmaking in the Supreme Council. For the first time, we have adopted a law on one-off use. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that when we passed the law, we didn't answer ourselves, not repeat ourselves, or the same? Who was drawn to criminal responsibility, who today was responsible for the inability to establish the results of the vote in Ukraine? Volodymyr Vasilovich, this is a fundamental question, we need to find out who took the responsibility of criminal, criminal crime before the people of Ukraine. Hence, someone should be held accountable and be held criminally accountable. That's what I wanted to pay attention to so that we don't have the practice of doing this anymore. Who's to blame? And it is the political parties that have done everything to defend, not the interests of the people, but the interests of the oligarchy capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u9	Dear National Deputies! The draft Act (2139) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is under consideration to simplify the registration of persons as taxpayers (second reading). And I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antitrust Policy Vladislav Valentinovich Lukyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear fellow national MPs! At its meeting on 4 September 2013, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Business, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Politics reviewed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs on the Simplification of Registration of Persons as Taxpayers (Registration No. 2139), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. It was decided to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt it on second reading and in general, taking into account the comments made and suggestions made by the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, to take into account the warnings made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusions No16/3, 152/2139 of 05.02. 2013 First of all, it should be noted that the bill is systematically related to the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Registration of Persons as Taxpayers (Registration No. 2029) as of 16.01.2013. In this connection, paragraph 2 of the draft Law 2139 requires that its name be clarified in accordance with Bill 2029. Therefore, there is a suggestion to support the committee’s decision to vote on the bill in second reading and in general to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, it is also impossible. Yeah, let's go straight. Amendment number 12, People's Deputy Sold to Oksana. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u12	Thank you very much, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to confirm the 6th amendment. And about 12 revisions to the second part. I'm asking the people's deputies to support her. Why? Because, in fact, this bill should simplify the registration of taxpayers, both in the register and in other authorities. At the same time, without the adoption of the 12 amendments and the 16th, this simplification is not going to happen. Because I propose that it be in the proper order in this bill and in the future law that it be determined that registration is not necessary in the tax authorities or in the pension authorities after the delistor. I ask the National Deputies to support this amendment and really allow future entrepreneurs to register only in the Single State Register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u13	Thank you. I'll vote in favour of the 12 amendments, People's Chamber of Commerce. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:26:41]] For-151 Against – 0 held – 23 did not vote – 229. The decision is not taken. The factions. Next, the People's Deputy Prodan asked to consider amendment number 16. I would be willing to vote in favour of Amendment 16. People's deputies please identify themselves. 16 and then there's 6 too, and I'm going to put the 6th. [[16:27:24]] For 121 Against 0, held – 24, did not vote 264. The decision is not taken. Oksana Prodan raised a question, I'm telling you, she did. No, she said 12th and 16th, and separately to confirm 6th. Is that what you said? Well, you picked up two repairs, you called the number, and the 6 for confirmation. Yes, and now, honourable national MPs, please, the 6th amendment, the People's Chamber of Commerce is asking to put it to a vote of support. Understand? I'm betting on the vote on Amendment 6 for support. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:28:42]] For 230 Against – 1, held – 24, not voted – 151. Decision taken. The factions. Yes, I ask the deputies to take their seats, I will put to the vote the law. Please take your seats, everyone. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2139) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Individuals of Entrepreneurs on the Simplification of Registration of Persons as Payers of Admission Taxes on Second Reading and Overall. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:29:59]] For three hundred Against 0, hold on to 4, don't vote 48. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2938) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine on the reduction of the number of permits to be obtained by food market operators (second reading). First Deputy Chairman of the Committee Vladislav Valentinovich Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u14	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy at its meeting on 4 September 2013 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the reduction of the number of permits to be obtained by food market operators (registration number 2938) since 26.04.2013, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and decided to submit a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt it in a second reading. The bill simplifies the work of food operators and generally enhances the investment attractiveness of Ukraine’s economic climate. Please accept it in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u15	Dear National Deputies! Let's do some repairs. Amendment No. 1 of the Balicki People's Deputy. The Baltic National MP, is he? You won't? Don't insist. Amendment number 2. National MP Simonenko. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u16	I urge you to pay attention, my fellow Members, to the fact that this is about, indeed, government regulation and control over how alcohol is produced and the circulation of alcohol. We are faced with what practically in all the areas of the "paloon," as the people say, is sold, practically disregarded and accounted for, all that has to do with the same alcohol. And that's why we insist that there remain a norm here that has something to do with these exact proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u17	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of the People's MP Simoneka for support. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:33:26]] For-42 Against – 4, held – 58, did not vote – 303. The decision is not taken. The factions. The factions. Amendment No. 4 of the National MP Simonnka is under consideration. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! The point is that in section 3, paragraph 3, of the first bill, the following edition will be published. "On the safety and quality of food products" reads as follows: "The operator of the food market (hereinafter the operator of the market), the operator of the primary production, production, circulation and/or circulation of food and/or other sanitary facilities." That is to say, it is about increasing control over the activities of those who today have a bearing on the food market. And please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u19	Dear National Deputies! I'm putting amendment number 4 of the People's MP Simone for support. Please vote. [[16:34:54]] For-33 Against 1, held-76, didn't vote-298. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 6 of the Balitsky People’s Deputy is under consideration. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment No. 7 of the People's MP Simonenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u20	It's the same as my colleague's previous 6 amendment. It is meant to leave in its original form section I, paragraph 4, because it is about ionizing radiation and controlling the devices that have this radiation, and increasing the impact on human health. So I'm convinced that this should be left in practice, as in the current law, rather than filming it in order for some of us to have the opportunity because they're trying to make a lot of money, to have an impact on the health of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u21	I'm putting an amendment to the 7th National MP Simoneka for support. Please vote. [[16:36:15]] For-37 Against – 2, held – 70, did not vote – 298. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 8 of the Omelchenka People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment to Balitsky Number 9. Don't insist. Amendment 10 of the People's Deputy Simonenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, this is a brief correction. And it has a bearing on the fact that beekeepers, regardless of their forms of ownership, are laboratories for controlling the quality of beekeeping products. I am convinced that this will not be a hindrance to the strengthening of state control over what is being done in Ukraine's markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u23	I'll bet you an amendment to the 10th People's Deputies of Simonek. Please vote. [[16:37:28]] For-39 Against – 2, held – 68, did not vote – 297. The decision is not taken. The factions. 11th Amendment of the People’s Deputy of Balitsky. Don't insist. 12th. National MP Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u24	Simonenko's faction of the Company. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that this is just about leaving the word "standards" in paragraph 3 of section 5 of the first bill as they are trying to exclude it. If that's what this is about, then you and I understand, on the one hand, we're trying to talk today about what we're moving towards Europe and using European standards. But we are still in Ukraine, and thank God, and we need our standards to work to protect the interests of our citizens. That's what we're talking about. So I insist that we not rule out the word "standards" and that the law remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u25	You insist on voting, don't you? I'm betting on the vote of amendment number 12 of the national MP Simoneka. Please vote. 12th. [[16:39:09]] For-36 Against – 2, held – 56, did not vote – 309. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 13 of the People's Deputy Simonenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to what is happening both in Ukraine and abroad when our products are being exported outside Ukraine. The latest events when Russian sanitary control was increased and this affected dairy products, cheese. So that's the first thing we don't have is that we don't have enough quality to handle exactly the production of those laboratories that have to provide quality control. When they move abroad, they need to be strengthened twice because it is the authority of the state, one fills their pockets, and the state, the authority suffers. So I accidentally wrote that beekeeping products that are exported outside Ukraine are subject to quality control in accordance with legislation. Here's what we're talking about. We should not make one person’s interests a disgrace to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u27	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 13 of the People's MP Simonenka. Please vote. [[16:40:36]] For-34 Against - 3, held - 58, did not vote - 305. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment 14. People's deputy Balitsky. Don't insist. 19 Amendments, Balitsky. Don't insist. 20 amendment, People's Deputy Simonenko. Don't insist. 21 Amendment, People's Deputy Omelchenko. Don't insist. 22nd National MP Medyanic. I can't see. Don't insist. 23rd National Deputy Simonenko. Don't insist. 24th National Deputy Omelchenko. Don't insist. Okay, I'll give it to you now. Okay. 25th National MP Medyanic. Don't insist. And the 26th, National Deputy Simonenko. Don't insist. Yes. I'm coming back, which one? Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 19. There was Balicki and there was a national deputy of Sikor. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Sikor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, honourable deputies! I insist on the inclusion of 19 amendments, since in Europe the standards of HASSPs are optional, these are voluntary standards. And if we are going to Europe, I ask that we also have legislation to foresee, not the obligation to do so, but to do so. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u29	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 19 of People's Deputies of Sikor to support this amendment. Please vote. [[16:43:16]] For-129 Against – 1, held – 27, did not vote – 244. The decision is not taken. The factions. Amendment number 28, National Deputy Balitsky. Don't insist. 29th National MP Simonenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I face the same problem each summer: our children are being poisoned, we are supplying inadequacies of milk and dairy products. We also face the fact that during the entire year, inadequate dairy products come to kindergartens and our children suffer there. So this is about differences, and very radical differences, in the interests of those who produce dairy products and have to respond to the interests of society. For some, it's a problem to put your wallet and pocket in, and for others, it's a problem to save your children after they've eaten non-quality products. I'm talking about this because my amendment suggests that I do one paragraph in chapter seven and leave it as a valid text. Because the proposal comes this way: delete the words "produces dairy products that meet the requirements of safety and quality," these words try to remove, exclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u31	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 29, National MP Simoneka. Please vote. Your word? [[16:45:08]] For-39 For backup? I'll give it to Turn on the microphone of Oxana Prodan's national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. I'm asking for confirmation of the 27th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u33	Okay. Yeah, let's move on, then 27th. 30 amendment, Balicki People's Deputy. Don't insist. 31 Amendment, Balitsky. Don't insist. 32nd National MP Simonenko. Do Not Urge Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The People’s Chamber of Commerce has made a proposal to vote for the 27th amendment for confirmation. Yeah, right? 27th Amendment to Confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and vote. I'm betting on a vote of 27 for an amendment. Please vote. [[16:46:49]] For 227 Against 5, held – 33, not a vote – 134. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. I will put to the vote the law as a whole. Please take your seats. The strike faction is being prepared, they're sitting in full stock, they're all working in places. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2938) amending certain laws of Ukraine to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature to be obtained by food market operators, to be adopted in a second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:48:17]] For 313 Against 33, held – 2, not voted – 56. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No. 2029) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Registration of Persons as Taxpayers (second reading) is under consideration. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. What are you two going to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u34	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee has prepared a bill 2029 on the registration of persons as taxable persons for second reading. The bill worked with the government to improve and liberalize the conditions associated with the registration of business entities. This is especially true of entrepreneurs working on a simplified tax system. The second reading came with proposals from the committee from us, editorial proposals that are all taken into account. That is why we can vote in favour of this bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u35	Dear National Deputies! Attention, prepare for the vote. Have a seat. Everybody sit down, I'll put it to the vote. I am voting on draft Act (No.2029) amending the Code of Taxation for the Registration of Persons as Taxpayers for the Second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:50:51]] For 271 Against – 1, held – 7, did not vote – 85. Decision taken. The factions. What can I give you? There's no motive. To whom? Who? Tell me, who? Sold to give. Please, National Deputy Sold, one minute. Turn on the mic, Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u36	Thank you so much for being able to express your position. The strike faction didn't vote in favour of this bill right now because it was first accepted at the bank meeting. Regardless of that, we support this decision, but what a business project was adopted on the first reading in Banks did not allow opposition deputies to make improvements. And we will continue to work to really ensure that business registration is simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u37	Thank you. Draft Law No. 22 is under consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no replica, I give one, they say, and then we'll look at another law, and then I'll give it to you. The draft Law (No. 2298) on the approval of the State-wide targeted space programme for 2013-2017 (second reading) is under consideration. Reports the Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy Unforgiving Vitaly Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ensuring the development of modern space technologies in Ukraine is an important factor in determining the strategic location of the state in the world. On the first reading of May this year, we supported more than 300 votes in favour of the bill that prepared and submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the National Space Science and Technology Programme 2013-2017, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is the fifth program submitted by the Government of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It should be noted that under the Ukrainian Space Action Act, space funding is carried out within the framework of state-wide targeted science and technology programmes that are approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine every five years. In view of the fact that the term of the previous, fourth General Targeted Space Programme of Ukraine for 2008-2012 ended in 2012, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed a bill approving the next, fifth space programme for 2013-2017, which unfortunately was not considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the financing of space activities in 2013 is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of October 17, 2012 No. 790 "On the approval of the space development and commercial engineering plan for 2013" which does not fully correspond to the current legislation governing space activities. The committee in preparing the draft draft for second reading reviewed the allocation of funds over the years, taking into account the funds set out for the implementation of the programme in 2013, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013. In the process of drafting the bill for second reading, 29 proposals were received from the national deputies, 23 of them included, two were partially counted, four were rejected. In general, there are proposals to exclude the operation of the Sic-2 spacecraft, taking into account the cessation of its functioning in a state-of-the-art manner, the inclusion of a position on the need to identify actions for space activities in the interests of security and defence by a separate act of Kabmin, the introduction of scientific research into the international work programme on the development of scientific programs for research into planetary aerosols. Entering the name of the program the word "Ukraine", including the full funding position of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u39	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Solvar. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Yeah, let's move on. Five. Amendment 6, National Deputy Greenevich. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone. National MP Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u40	I want to say that there are not a few of my amendments, but I now use the word to say that the "Paternity" faction supports this bill. But we do have a lot of questions about controlling the use of the funds that are put into this program. In addition, those amendments that were not taken into account were related to other aspects of scientific experimentation by the National Academy of Sciences. But these are not the direction of the experiments here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u41	Honourable People's Deputies, I would like to support the vote on Amendment 6 of People's Deputies Greenevich. Please vote for the people's deputies. Now what's the amendment there? [[16:57:52]] For 111 Against 0, holding back - 26, not voting - 262. The decision is not taken. Okay, amendment number 10. People's MP Greenevich. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Where do we have amendment number 14? Amendment 14 of Lilia Greenevich. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Any more repairs? No more amendments. All accounted for. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to prepare for the vote. Finish the assemblies, sit down, and I will put them to a vote. I would like to vote on the draft Law (2298) on the approval of the State-wide Science and Technology Programme for 2013-2017 for adoption in second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:59:41]] For 313 Against 0, held – 7, not voted – 73. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children (second reading) is under consideration. I invite the head of the committee’s subcommittee on family, youth policy, sports and tourism, Zuk Mikolu Vasilovic. We have a prime minister. See, he's sitting at the minister's table. Thank you. Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Mikola Jouk, 129 constituency, Mikolayev, Yellow District, Mikolayivsk Region Dear colleagues! Bill 0956 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is being submitted to your judgment. The Bill, which was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 18, 2012, proposes to amend a number of Ukrainian legislative acts, including the Ukrainian Family Code, Civil Procedure Codes, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, the Child Protection Act, the Child Protection Act, the Child Services Act, and special institutions for children and others with the aim of improving valid legal standards governing the placement of a child in a family, guardians, foster families, and children’s homes of the family type. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget. There were 40 amendments to the bill, all taken into account. In particular, consider the proposal made by the People’s Peacekeepers to abolish the bill’s rule on guardians, caregivers, who can be only a person with a foster family in a family relationship, as well as a person who is not in a family relationship can become a guardian, a caregiver only by decision of the court. In support of the National MP’s proposal, the committee was guided by the fact that it was not only possible to establish judicial procedures to provide care and care for children who were not relatives of the child. This will result in a violation of a child’s right to be raised in the family. Moreover, Ukraine’s legislation does not define the procedure for proving family relations. The proposed amendment to articles 256-2 and 256-6 of the Ukrainian Family Code to repeal the proposed bill removes the position of adoptive parents and foster parents without special powers as guardians and caregivers. It is not taken into account that foster children and children with disabilities can receive assistance in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities from Childhood. The prescribed law and others do not include recipient parents and foster parents. That's why children with disabilities actually fall out of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities. Please support the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth Sports and Tourism to adopt a bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u43	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. Oh, for confirmation? Please. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u44	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. This is about 14 and 15 corrections. In our view, the rights to adopt a child are severely restricted. It is determined that a child can adopt and receive guardianship only by one person. It's not a marriage, it's one person. In fact, it may also lead to violations of the rights of the child. So I suggest you put Amendment 14 to confirm and support it. Because again, I'm telling you, this is going to lead to a violation of the child's rights to adoption. And we're going to leave the editorial that the Ministry offered us, and we're going to support exactly what it is. So I propose Amendment 14 not to support and Amendment 15 does not support. This supports our position and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is noted here.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heeded the invitation of the People's Deputies of Rosenk. He's asking for two amendments: 14th and 15th. So I invite Nestor Ivanovich to prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the amendment of the 14th People's Deputies of Peacekeeper to support. People's deputies, please vote. To support. [[17:05:40]] For 196 What I'm about to say is, you're running slowly. Not supported. And now I'm putting amendment number 15 of the People's Deputy Beetle for support. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:06:19]] For 223 Three of them jumped in the door, but they didn't make it. Why don't you invite the people's deputies to the session room? We have to work, national deputies. Nothing, I'm not going to bet again, because I'm breaking the rules and Easy's fighting. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the draft Law (0956) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children for adoption in a second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:07:38]] For 279 For 279, against 0, held – 37, did not vote – 84. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. The draft Law on the Reform of Printed Media (Registration Nos. 2600 and 2600-1) is under consideration. Reports the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. How will we consider this question? Please. Short cut? After a reduced procedure, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[17:08:46]] For-195 Against - 75, held - 6, did not vote - 124. Decision taken. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I have informed you, first of all, of the outcome of our negotiation process with all factions and government representatives. Because we have to pass the bill in a short time. So, Vladimir Vasilovich, we need to look formally today at three bills to move forward. 2600, which you said was 2600-1 and 2093. Three and 2093 more. All three bills relate to the problem of dispossessing the media. These three bills have good constructive proposals to move the issue from this point. I would like to thank those deputies who have worked actively. The first bill is Raupov, Miroshnichenko, Bagraev. The second bill is the Prince's. The third bill is Kurpil and Heratschenko. We have work to do in the government. Our proposal is that since we have been having a discussion about dissipation for 10 years. Today, not to hold this discussion, but to transfer it to our working group, Vladimir Vasilovich, and to vote 2,600 in accordance with article 114 of Part One, paragraph 3, on the direction of reworking to the Main Committee for the re-reading of the first reading. And then we agreed that the best ideas in all three of these bills, the bill that the State Committee has prepared for television and radio talk, we're preparing and reprinting in a short time, and with one bill we're moving towards its approval. So, all the factions, the profile of our State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the National Press Association will have the opportunity to have one compromise bill that I'm sure will be voted on in this faction. So I'd like to propose that we continue to work on one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u47	It's 2600, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, attention! An offer has been made, without discussion. Law number 2600 to be accepted as a basis and sent to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you get it? Please turn on the microphone, make a motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u48	Vladimir Vasilovich, please send for further preparation for the re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u49	Number 2600? Do you understand? I'm betting on voting on draft law (No.2600) to take the basis, send to the committee for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u50	For re-admission. Come on, I don't understand! All of you. You're all shouting. I say again, Tomenko, please make up your mind. Don't get confused because you're all yelling, I'm nothing. Well, that's impossible! Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. And you sit down, don't shout!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u51	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm going back to the rule of law. It goes here to send the committee to read again, this is article 114, part one, paragraph three.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u52	I made that offer. Not like that? To be sent to the committee for re-reading. Why do you raise your hands, will you tell me? I'm betting on the vote on Tomenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[17:13:48]] For 334 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 63. Decision taken. Laws 2600-1 and 2093 were rejected. Dear national MPs, it's impossible to work here, they're hanging here, and they're all shouting. Isn't that how you work? You're 450 people. I put it out, I took it out, no, I didn't. So this is where they're yelling, so here, let's do it already. The draft Law (No. 0983) on the amendment of Ukrainian laws on architectural activity and on licensing of certain economic activities is being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Finished. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities of Hennady Grigorovich Zubko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u53	Good afternoon, fellow believers! Good afternoon, Mr. Head! By decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 May 2013, the number 229 of the Committee has been entrusted with the task of finalizing the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities and the Act on License from Certain Economic Activities under Registration No. 0983, returned with proposals by the President, taking into account the proposals made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee, with the participation of the heads of interested central executive bodies, representatives of professional associations and public organizations, such as the Ministry of Regional Development of Ukraine, the State Architectural Building Inspectorate, the State Service for Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Development, the Association and Organization of Ukraine, the Academy of Construction of Ukraine and the Association of Cities of Ukraine, addressed the issue of licensing the construction sector. As a result of the discussion of the bill, members of the committee unanimously supported the proposal that State licensing was a deterrent against the intrusion into the construction of unscrupulous and not competent manufacturers of technical products, and ultimately serves as a tool to ensure the safety, reliability and longevity of building objects. The need to maintain licenses for today is that today in Ukraine there are project, search institutes that have state experience and are left alone with this problem because of the cancellation of licenses. For serious project market objects that have a professional, staff composition, appropriate technologies, a material and technical base, a quality system, a system for improving the qualifications of staff and a developed organizational structure for obtaining licences was never an obstacle. The licensing system provides a building industry for those who do not have the capacity and the desire to prove their ability. Refusal of government regulation in such a strategically important area of agriculture is premature. It can't be supported by the cancellation of the license, please note, the construction works of 4-5 categories are nuclear power stations, they're bridges, they're very complex engineering networks. Nor can it be supported that the construction and development of design documentation for construction will be carried out by one or two people. Thus, as a result of the drafting of the bill, the committee decided to leave behind the types of commercial activities that were subject to licensing, which were accepted in the second reading, including those related to the development of urban documentation, as well as to sophisticated works, design, and construction of objects in the 4-5 category of complexity. In addition, to extend the licensing of project construction works to 3 categories of complexity and to supplement the law with a licensing procedure. By the way, by this time the licensing procedure had been issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is now in the form of a second reading of this bill. The committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the proposed drafting of the amended law as a whole. With regard to the observations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority, I believe that they can be taken into account in an editorial way. Thank you. And please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u54	Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments are all taken into account. There are no comments. That's why I'm voting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think I'd like to interrupt the announcement or something? Prepare for the vote, please. I'm putting the bill to the vote, including the President of Ukraine. I am voting on the Ukrainian Act (No. 0983) amending the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities and Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 26. 10.2012, completed, for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:21:13]] For 226 Against 0, held – 73, did not vote 97. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! We're talking about ratification. A draft Act (No. 0033) on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on social security is under consideration. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, is it? Please, Deputy Minister of Social Policy Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich and then Head of the Committee. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] How will we view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u55	Take your seats. Take your seats. The MPs want him to report to the minister and that's the right thing to do. [[Applause]] Have a seat. Have a seat. What am I going to argue with the deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u56	Who didn't vote? Where? Who's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u57	Let's make a statement. What about me? [[B in m in s a l in]] So what do we do? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no committee head to report. No, no, let's do this. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now found out that the minister is on a mission in Poland, and the government has written that it will report on the law of the deputy minister. So let's listen to the Deputy Minister. Please report. Report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Minister in charge, we'll listen to the Deputy Minister. Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure on the issue of ratification. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:27:20]] For 177 Against 54, held – 4, not voted – 157. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law provides for the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on Social Security, signed on 18 May 2012 in Kiev. The adoption of the bill will allow the internal state procedures necessary to take effect by the Agreement, which in turn will allow the social welfare of the citizens of both States to be addressed. In particular, the agreement will regulate, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, payments under compulsory State social insurance, relating to temporary incapacity, pregnancy and childbirth, industrial accidents, occupational diseases, unemployment, retirements at the age of disability, the loss of a breadwinner, the service of age, and the care of a funeral. According to Polish legislation, compulsory insurance and social security payments for sickness and maternity, occupational and occupational diseases, pensions, disability and family benefits, unemployment, and funeral care. As well as making these payments within the framework of agricultural social insurance. Ratification and acceptance of the agreement will protect the social and labour rights of Ukrainian citizens who are legally resident and working in the Republic of Poland. It will also allow for the preservation of the acquired rights under Polish legislation to social security upon completion of work and return to Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u59	Have a seat. First Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee, Irina Volodymyrna Herachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! In the last two years, there has been such a number that 160,000 workers in Poland are officially employed by Ukrainian workers. While these social benefits were received by only two thousand people without ratification of the law. And that's why today we have the entire session hall to support the ratification of this document in order for Poland to fund as well as the Polish workers, the Ukrainian workers who are officially working in Poland. The legal regulation of the agreement is subject to compulsory State social insurance relating to sickness, pregnancy and childbirth, industrial accidents, occupational diseases, unemployment, retirement after age, disability, due to the loss of a breadwinner, over the years, in accordance with the legislation on compulsory government pension insurance. Once again, I stress that these payments will be paid by Poland to the official Ukrainian wage earners. And obviously we have the entire session hall to protect those Ukrainians who are now officially working in Poland. Assembling a treaty will enable our citizens under Polish legislation to have the right to social security upon completion of their work and return to Ukraine. In turn, it will promote motivation for legitimate employment and the return of Ukrainian citizens. I would like to point out that yesterday, during a meeting of the Committee on European Integration, all members of the Committee fully supported the ratification of this document. And we ask the session room to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u61	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please register with the faction. Please, Freedom Union, National Deputy of Switzerland. Pass it on, please. Turn on the microphone. Pankevitch, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union welcomes, of course, this document. The agreement is concrete, though a very small step in the way of protecting Ukrainians, migrant workers. It is also essential for pensioners, for mothers, primarily for all Ukrainian citizens who work abroad. However, a major flaw in the document is that the agreement touches on the interests of a very small, small group of Ukrainian wage earners in comparison, who were able to make official employment in Poland. Moreover, if you analyze all nine agreements with other countries, a very small number of Ukrainian wage earners have benefited from such a contract. That agreement is without prejudice to the interests of those who are working illegally today. The agreement does not give them the opportunity to work legally and obtain and to be able not to receive certain sanctions in the form of deportations and fines for Ukrainian labour migrants. Such agreements were to be further strengthened by appropriate changes to the laws and regulations of Ukraine. And Poland as in this particular case, which would provide for the legalization of Ukrainian wage earners, to pay their wages from small taxes and other social insurance. Then the budgets would be received, and Ukrainian wage earners would have adequate, indeed, real opportunities to protect themselves. Besides, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u63	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u65	Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u66	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to stress the particular importance of this bill. After all, it is not just about pension insurance or just about pension insurance. This is all about a system of compulsory public social insurance. These include diseases, temporary disability, pregnancy and childbirth, accidents at work, occupational diseases, retirements, disability, the loss of a caregiver, unemployment, and so forth. So the whole range of social insurance falls under this Agreement between Ukraine and Poland. Indeed, it may be a defect that does not extend to illegal migrants, but it is certainly already the norm of other legislation that we are all waiting for. The only thing I want to stress and ask in this case is the activity of the government. Today, we have virtually no bilateral agreements between Ukraine and other countries. We have virtually no agreements with the countries of the European Union. We don't have a proper deal with the United States. We have great problems with Israel, there are no adequate social security agreements. The government has to step up these things. The government should still protect the work and social affairs of people working abroad. We demand that the government carefully deal with these issues. And I hope that the Agreement that we hope for the Association with the European Union will provide and open the way for the social rights of our workers working abroad to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u67	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u68	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. At one point, I had the opportunity to face a problem. In Bitom, Poland, a doctor worked in the city of Bitom, and this happened to provide assistance to a loved one who moved across the city. It turned out that this woman had worked for over 20 years in Ukraine’s health system and was already in her pre - retirement years. At the time, there was no similar agreement and the right of the person to receive a pension was not guaranteed in connection with the completion of his employment. So I feel that such a covenant must be. We're neighbors, we're going to Europe, we're starting to standardize our legislation with Europeans, and I don't want anyone in this room, after the treaty is ratified, to go to the Semium or to the President of Poland with a request, for example, not to make payments, not to implement this agreement. Because recently, such a letter came to recognize the Ukrainians as those who showed genocide in relation to the Poles. We are neighbors, peoples who have endured difficult historical periods. And when the political motives of today begin to entangle us, we forget about the people who are now intersecting on this earth. 120,000 Ukrainians in Poland must live there in a more human way, working there, earning money, contributing something to the economy of Poland and Ukraine. This law is not symmetrical today, for the Polish people working in Ukraine are very few. So if Poland is willing to make such payments today, although a little bit of raising standards of treatment for Ukrainian ostriches, let's help this out and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u69	Party of regions, national deputy Haydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u70	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to give it to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u71	We give John Popescu the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u72	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll be as brief as I can be. A party of regions will vote in favour. And the main argument is that this agreement is made to regulate the social welfare of citizens of both states on parity terms. And since, as has already been pointed out here, Ukrainian citizens who are officially working in Poland are much more than Polish citizens who work in Ukraine, it is objectively convenient for our state, for our citizens. And the second argument. We really need to protect our citizens from where they work, whether they work officially in Ukraine or abroad. A party of regions will vote in favour and please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u73	The discussion is over. I ask you to prepare for the vote of the national MPs. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 0033) on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland on social security for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[17:39:42]] For three hundred Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 35. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act (2118a) is under consideration to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of a permit to hire workers to continue their work in Ukraine in another employer. Reported Deputy Minister of Social Policy Colomietz Viacheslav Mikolaiovich. How will we view it? I'll bet you a reduced vote. [[17:40:32]] For-179 Against - 64, held - 6, did not vote - 136. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The Employment of Population Act establishes requirements for obtaining permission from employers who hire employees to continue their work with another employer. However, this law does not contain the basic principles of State policy on the issue of a system of permits in the field of economic activity. That is why it was necessary to amend certain laws of Ukraine, such as the Ukrainian Act on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity, as well as article 39 of the Act on Employment of the Population, to determine the grounds for the issue of permits, transformations, cancellations and issuance of duplicates. The proposed bill provides that the permission to hire workers to continue their work in another employer under the terms of the employment contract shall be issued by the State Employment Service for an unlimited period, as well as that the granting of a permit, transformation, cancellation and issuance of a duplicate permit shall be carried out on a free basis, which shall meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u75	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Samueln Fabricant. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u76	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on July 3, 2013, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of employment permits for further employment in Ukraine and another employer (registration number 2118a). As already noted, the bill proposes to complete the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity with a new document, namely, a permit to hire workers to continue their work in another employer. No one has any comments. The committee proposes to take the basis and to make a change in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u77	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for the faction of the performance. Freedom Union, Yank People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u79	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, you know, this bill was being considered by our faction. In principle, we've seen that this project is agreed upon by both the Ministry of Finance and the Ukrainian State Service on Regulatory Policy. And the joint representative body on the employers' side on the national level, along with the unions, they have no comment on this bill. But as we've heard from the deputy minister, there's one nuance that just doesn't allow us to vote in favour of the bill -- it's a license to hire workers to continue their work in Ukraine, which seems to be an unlimited term. Dear Society, according to the State Statistics Service, we have an unemployment rate of 8 percent today. It is one million 755 Ukrainians today sitting without a job and registered with the State Employment Service. That moment allows employers to hire workers indefinitely and to pass them on to other employers under the employment agreement. That means those people can, our people can lose their jobs just because they can hire foreign workers. That is why we will abstain from voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u80	People's Deputy Rosenco, Vitalia Klitschak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u81	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u82	They passed it on to Sergei Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u83	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltawa, 144 constituency. Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, voters! We have no serious comment on this bill; we support it in the first reading. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to summarize today's meeting, thank you, Volodymyr Vasilovich, for the principle of a position on government visits to our meetings. I would even say that today's session can be called sports terminology: Azarov - Ribak, 1:0 in favour of the Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u84	One is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u85	And the third thing I'd like to say is using the remaining time. Today we have considered and this has something to do with every bill. Today we've been looking at the approval of the space program. So I'd like the voters to know that for four years only 1.2 billion dollars are allocated from the government budget. That's twice as much, if you count every year on flights as charter flights by the president. As long as we consider space to be less important than the President's flights, as long as we live in poverty, we will be a state, unfortunately, of the second class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u86	Thank you. Party of regions, national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, I ask you to give the floor to a colleague of the people's deputies of Ukraine, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u88	Please, Chechet's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u89	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The government, as always, is introducing a very important, very relevant bill, and I think, and I suggest we think about and support this bill. This bill establishes a legislative order for refusal to grant and cancel the hiring of employees to continue our work with another employer. This bill will allow the State Employment Service to start issuing employee permits to continue their work with another employer. I am very much asking and turning to the left side of the room, to the opposition to support this bill of government in order to improve the working conditions of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u90	I see, Mikhail Vasilovich, that the Freedom Union will vote in favour of this act. You see, they applaud you. National MP, Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u91	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. I'd like to go to the hall and ask you to support this bill. Why? In our time, we conducted a detailed analysis of the conditions of employment for third - person Ukrainians. Today we have, first of all, a large group of people and organizations that are conducting non-lethal activities in this direction. They just deceive people, sometimes lure them into sexual exploitation. See, on many advert pages magazines and newspapers, there are reports that invite people to work at a foreign club or somewhere else to go back and tell scary things. Today, this activity is not regulated. Those who hire don't have any responsibility. And yet getting such a permit should be regulated, and this license should set the rules for such employment. First of all, the legal responsibility for fulfilling the terms of employment is whether they, these conditions, are being fulfilled, or whether it's just a hoax, as they say, to get people to work somewhere. We recently read in the press that a large group of students were lured somewhere in South America to gather some crops, and then they barely got out of there, and so on. But it can't really be a timeless license. We need to be able to call him off in case of a violation. And this will protect to some extent those who are looking for work around the world today. Unfortunately, we can't have this work at our disposal, although we could have done it if the authorities of the state were working more effectively, above all the government of Ukraine. So I would ask my comrades, my friends from the faction, as well as those who are today on the other side of the political side to look at the matter in a completely different way. We need to protect these people. But in the second reading, we need to work out the conditions for granting such permission and withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to pull yourself together. We're going to have another law that's very important to the state. That's why I'm asking to be in the cities of everyone. One minute, National Deputy Cibenko. And we will be determined by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u93	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. I want to say that in 2012, a new edition of the Employment Act was adopted at the initiative of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. We held a field meeting of the Committee on the Practice of the Employment Act in June. And at this exit session, the practice of law enforcement was carefully examined. A number of standards have emerged that need to be improved. And the standard that we're talking about right now is the order of those norms that really need improvement. So I want to say that the bill is largely technological. He needs to be taken. As for the warning, I would like to remind my colleagues that we will have a second reading ahead of us. And we can adjust some nuances that don't work today. So please support this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting it to the vote. Please prepare for the vote so that you don't run later. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2118a) amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of permission to hire workers to continue their work in Ukraine in another employer for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:52:35.]] For 252 Against 0, held – 64, not voted – 55. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my session for 15 minutes to consider one very important issue. A draft Act (No. 2101a) is under consideration to amend some of Ukraine’s laws to encourage investment. How will we view it? Anyone who supports this procedure, please vote. [[17:53:28]] For 178. Where's Maxuta? You are authorized by Kabmin to report this law today. Please report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u95	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, honourable members of the people, you have before you a draft law, which has been drafted on behalf of the President of Ukraine. This law proposes to amend the Investment Act and to stimulate investment activities in the priority sectors of the economy with a view to creating jobs. What a change. First. These are changes to the Investment Activities Act, which is designed by the Investment Promotion Act. There are also a number of changes to the Ukrainian Act, to the Act on Promoting Investment in Priority Areas, in particular the application of the State Registration Order, as defined by the Investment Act. So this will allow you to simplify and unify the registration of all investment projects that need state support. The other one. The law itself lists the priority sectors of the economy that are subject to this law. These include agri-industrial complexes, residential and machinery complexes, transport infrastructures, and activities within these complexes. It is also envisaged that the central authority of the executive body be empowered. which ensures the formation of public policy in the field of investment. It's going to be the Ministry of Economics. Thus, the problem of an authorized body provided for in the law is solved. And because he wasn't appointed, that law couldn't work. Finally, the criteria, the criteria for cost-effective projects, change. And in the end, there are additional criteria for investment projects in priority areas that will enable them to stimulate the implementation of projects that will provide technical, technological upgrades to the real economy. To reduce the energy dependence of the national economy and so forth. Project monitoring is foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen of the people,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u96	Have a seat. Thank you. I'm asking the first deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy, Sergey Alexanderovich Firemarck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u97	Dear Chairman, Ukrainian national deputies, invited! On June 18, 2013, the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Incentivizing Investment (Registration No. 2101a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to ensure further improvement of the mechanism of State support for investment activities of economic operators in priority economic activities, and to prevent unjustified losses of the budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion (since 14 June 2013), generally assessing the changes made as being aimed at improving the current Ukrainian Act on Promoting Innovation in Priority Economics for the purpose of creating new jobs, says a number of comments and suggestions. Having considered and discussed the bill, the members of the committee supported its adoption and noted that the provisions of the bill would ensure that a number of priority economic activities are identified at the legislative level, which are intended to provide State support for the implementation of investment projects and the implementation of the only investment activity law of Ukraine, the selection order and the state registration of investment projects. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee took a decision: a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Incentivizing Investment (Registration No. 2101a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposed its adoption as a basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u98	Do you want to talk about it? Indeed, there is. Please sign up. Factions please sign up. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov is now in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u99	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u101	Dear National Deputies! Once again, the government sent us a very timely bill, which will increase the attractiveness of the investment climate to attract the investment needed for the country. That's the law. is proposed to determine at the legislative level. a period of priority for economic activity, for which State support is to be provided for the implementation of investment projects in these areas. And the adoption of this important, very relevant government bill will provide an opportunity to improve the mechanism of State support for investment activities of economic operators. I appeal very much to the Chamber to consolidate our efforts on the last bill and to vote on this very important, very important bill for investing in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u102	People's Deputy Golovko, Faction of Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u103	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u104	We'll pass it on to Alexander the Peace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u105	Alexander Mirny, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. As far as the bill is concerned, the little pluses that are there are, they're going to be scaled down by big negatives. That's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support this bill, we'll just hold on. But Vladimir Vasilovich, I wish you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u106	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u107	Thank you for hearing. And you'll hear what I'm going to say, and you'll be interested. Volodymyr Vasilovich, yesterday you asked the right question that ministers should come to report, and we should absolutely not care who was delegated by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Deputy Minister, the First Deputy, with all due respect. Now, for this moment, Mr. Praslov has concluded a meeting with representatives of the Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It turns out that the Ukrainian Parliament is a place where it's less interesting to be than it is. Minister, you've been heard. There is a minister, we do not allow the minister to speak and defend the law. There's one deputy, another one, we're jumping by the law, not understanding what we're supposed to say, how we should say it. After all, either we really respect ourselves, or every time we write notes, who, where and why doesn't come? Because he doesn't want to come. Vladimir Vasilovich, you've made the right move. Let's continue this movement, let's respect ourselves, let's respect Parliament, then we'll look for a common point of view, then we'll move together. But when, I'm sorry, it's easy on us. (you know that word), just don't pay attention to how we work then? With what arguments? What question can we ask the deputy minister? He'll say, "I don't answer these questions." And the ministers, they come out, they're afraid. It turns out that the level of intelligence in Parliament is so much higher than that of a minister that they're just afraid to come here. Vladimir Vasilovich, let's make a decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a meeting with the ministers. It's an international meeting, and you can't cancel it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll be ministers in one day. We won't be able to fix the situation. It's gonna be okay. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the people's deputy, Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u109	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u110	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, the fact that we stopped investing in Ukraine today is a serious problem, and it is very good that the government is stressing it. But at the same time, if we look at the project and the project's essence, we don't see any steps in eliminating corruption, we don't see any steps in this bill that will help real business. That's why we're talking about what? Today, Vladimir Vasilovich, it is very important that a bill be put to the vote of the Supreme Council, which has been tabled by the strikers regarding the deletion of the evidence that has now simply plagued both the Ukrainian business and future investors. Today, legislation on public procurement needs to be amended. And we initiated such a bill, but you, Vladimir Vasilovich, don't put it to the vote. Today, there is a need to reduce the fiscal burden on business. And what I'm talking about today is how complex taxes are, I'm not talking about their size, I'm talking about their administration, the fact that today VAT is very difficult to get from business power to compensation, the fact that today at the customs offices of Dnipropetrovsk, Herson, West and East, they can't form independently of the authority of the cargo is a problem for investors. In particular, I would like to point out that there is no word in this bill and that there is no reduction in pension burden. Because the only social contribution that is today is killing future investors in Ukraine. It's because there's only one thing that's going on in this project is to ban all access, regardless of power, business, and to maintain investment support. The strike faction doesn't think he's worthy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u112	Thank you. The national deputy of Yavorowski, please, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, "Fatherland" Julius Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, our constituents! This bill is absolutely typical, if you want, of a cross-cutting, fundamental example of imitation, not of solving one or the other problem. The country is suffocating without investment, no one – not our neighbours Poland, Czechs, Slovaks, no one came out of a severe crisis without foreign or domestic investment coming and, of course, must be stimulated. But what kind of normal businessman who has earned money honestly or in America or in the same Poland or in Germany will bring this money to a country ruled by his family, a country where there are political prisoners who are in prison, a country where bribes are required at every turn? Who will bring their money here? I could give a lot of examples and one of the Ukrainian Americans who brought the money here, and I spent six months saying, "I'm leaving.".. He loves Ukraine, but he says, "I'm leaving because I've never given anyone bribes, and there's a hand stretched out at every turn. That's the first one. The other one. What is the purpose of this bill? To support the big, big business that we have already flourished. This is the family of Yanukovich, which is Amhtova, Colomoysky and so on and so forth. But we understand very well that the middle business is being destroyed in Ukraine today, and only on account of it can we get up because it also provides jobs, it helps people survive. And here, you see, the amount displayed is the equivalent of 12 million euros. That's why, once again, it's a vile bill. It's not designed to support investment today, it's the flow of investment into Ukraine. If this money comes, which I highly doubt, to such a country and to such authority as is here in Ukraine today, this bill is ridiculous, vile, and we will not vote for it (I mean, "Paternity").
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-05-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. While you are preparing for the vote, I want to ask you all very much – you too! - to ask everyone. I said the last law, but I want us to be a program of physical culture. The minister of the South sat. I'll put it, let's take it as a basis for them to work. That's why no one. Let's work. Because the minister respects the Supreme Council. I am betting on a draft Act (No. 2101a) to amend certain laws of Ukraine to encourage the inclusion of investment for adoption as a basis. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:08:33]] For 232 Against-1, held-68, not voted-48. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Law on the State Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 2013-2017 is under consideration. Do we need to talk? Okay. I can hear you, I can hear you. I am voting on the draft Law (No. 2629) on the National Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture and Sports for 2013-2017 for adoption as a basis. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[18:09:46]] For 315 And the last question is, all factions are ready to vote. Draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Seventh Council Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for innovation policy). All the factions told me to put it to the vote and vote the factions. May I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the draft Decree (No. 2663) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council Committees (for innovation policy) for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[18:10:46]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I thank you all for your work. I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., let's get back to work.
