ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please calm down and prepare the national deputies for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:41]] A total of 337 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bobkova Alexander Mikhailovich. Let's congratulate Alexander Mikhailovich on his birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today, you have a very large program. As you can see, the schedule of meetings for today provides for many important issues. Therefore, I offer to work today before the day - to - day consideration is completed. People's deputies would like to support this proposal. People's deputies, please vote. I'll give you my word. Please vote. [[10:03:35]] For 199 Against 39. Abstaining-32. It wasn't an 112 vote. I ask for the motives of the Jaciny vote. Let's do the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u2	Mr. Head! Honorable Members of Parliament! As an opposition, we make a very constructive offer to all. You recall that we asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have Europe Day in Ukraine. We have today the opportunity to show our European partners the 22rd day before the negotiations that we are now able to adopt the four bills that the European Union requires of us. What are the requests, Volodymyr Vasilovich, let's start today's session with four bills and we'll vote for them on the basis and in general it's 2802, 2803, 2837 and 2836. I'm going to remind you that these are bills: this is the Personal Data Act, which is consistent, and we can accept it as a whole; this is the Law on Criminal Responsibility for Bribery; this is the legislation that deals with the procedure for special confiscation, and this is the Law that also requires the European Union to fight corruption. Mr. Head, there's a request for you: let's vote to start with these four bills. We'll have them by 12.30.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u4	We're going to take them up to 12.30 in general and show our European partners that we're not just talking, we're actually going to the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u5	Yes, from factions per minute, please. Please, Anna Herman. From the factions, I ask everyone to speak in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u6	Friends, the Party of the Regions welcomes the instructions of the opposition to work constructively and thanks for supporting our initiative to vote today in parliament on several laws that will promote European integration. This is a very commendable decision, and we thank you for supporting our initiative. But as for European Parliament Day, I think the day is not enough. Let's do "The Decade of Europe" in Parliament at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u7	I'm asking the strike faction is desirable? None. From the Freedom faction. Let's introduce ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u8	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, today’s agenda includes a number of questions that are unconstitutionally included in the second reading, which were allegedly voted on in congregations of four. I ask you, let's go back to the Constitution, and put these questions to the vote in the first reading and show your 244 votes. As for the time to consider all the issues today and to arrive, we are breaking the Rules again today, and the seven bills that were rejected yesterday for inclusion in the agenda are once again included in the violation of the Rules. If we do not violate the Rules, we will consider all questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u9	Faction Impact, please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u10	Good morning, dear fellows! Valentin Nastavajchenko, Faction of Vitalia Klicka. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we call upon each of you who have come to work today to prevent Parliament from moving and breaking through the knee of every national MP. We represent the citizens of Ukraine and therefore try to include in a third attempt today the long - term schemes that steal the budget, the attempt to reintroduce the monster that united the specialnas. All the punitive functions are possible and impossible, from customs to tax in the form of a separate ministry and which is directed against the Ukrainian business, we find it impossible and principled not to include such issues in the agenda. This is a principled position, an honest position, and a position to fight corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u11	Is there a Communist faction? None. So there is a proposal, honourable deputies, to include, consider chapter one, to include in the agenda, including issues that have been raised in the field of Euro-integration. And first of all, let's look at four laws. I'll bet. Four European integration laws I put to the vote, I ask the national MPs to vote. [[10:09:20]] For 339 Against the 3rd. Abstaining – 3, not voting – 69. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 75, Vitalia Klicka - 24, Freedom - 36, Company - zero, non-fractional - 17. And, honourable national MPs, I offer to work today before the day-to-day agenda is completed. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do national deputies not want to do? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me put it to a vote: go back to the vote on the extension of the session. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[10:10:41]] For the 220. Against the 17th. Restraint is 96. There was no vote — 80. The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 34, Company - 31, Postfaction - 5. Let's get to work. Now we're talking about getting into the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2757) of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2013 for participation in multinational military training. Is there a need to discuss? None. Attention! I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2757) approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2013 to participate in multinational military training. To be included in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:13:17]] For 363 Decision taken. "For" is 363. Against 0. He's holding on to one. They didn't vote 55. The total is 419. Next. The factions, please. Region Party – 190, Parenthood – 77, Vitalia Klicka – 38, Freedom – 36, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22 Inserts a proposal for inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The request, Vladimir Vasilovich, for the evening session to put this bill into practice, because the training begins in April-month. Yesterday we decided on a committee to ask the Supreme Council to review the bill without delay and to approve it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u13	Won't there be any objections to the national MPs? Should we put it to a vote? Should I? I would like to vote on this proposal from the National Deputies. Please vote. [[10:14:54]] For 352, Against 0. Hold on to 0. No vote - 65. Decision taken. By motive. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u14	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The Company faction did not support the bill. And we were willing to vote only if proposals for joint exercises between Ukraine and Belarus, Ukraine and Russia were voted on separately. What is now being proposed to unite, including with NATO States, to conduct exercises in Ukraine, we categorically oppose that, and we reiterate that. Also, as I am addressing all the people's deputies today, note that the defence capacity and the fighting capacity of Ukraine's troops is determined, first and foremost, by what the State is doing to support this major institution of statehood. And the state doesn't do anything. Therefore, in this situation, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in Ukraine, the exercises of their troops are not carried out in order to do what is necessary to protect our country. That's why I'm reasserting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is being made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2833) on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. Is there a need for discussion? None. You don't? Is it? There is a suggestion to consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[10:17:19]] For 197 Against it is 41. It was held at 46. There was no vote – 135. Decision taken. I'd like you to sign up for a discussion. Please, Freedom Union, Kyda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u17	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u18	Dear Head! Deputies! The bill was reintroduced yesterday to our Main Committee in the face of a violation of article 108 of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rules of the Supreme Council. Respectable Society! We've been introducing this project over and over again since Monday it starts to be discussed at every session. The bill now contradicts the Ministry of Assembly and Income. Because it is the Ministry of the Congregations alone today. And the Ministry of Finance is today the Ministry of Expenses, it needs to be organized. And the Freedom faction will be absolutely against it. And we will not only uphold laws that are passed every day in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the Rules. And you want to take another look at them today! We're definitely against it! And we will not support your abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u19	I'm asking you to explain to the head of the committee, Homutinik. Please turn on the Homutinnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 726 of 24 December 2012, on certain measures to optimize the system of central executive bodies, the Ministry of Income and Assembly was established. Therefore, we need to amend the Tax Code, the Customs Code, and other legislative acts regarding the functioning of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. In fact, it's more of a legal and technical system law that needs to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u21	We're now discussing issues for inclusion in the agenda. We'll talk about it later. National MP, please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, we certainly understand that the Supreme Council’s decisions to include in the day - to - day order of a matter can really be dealt with in accordance with the Rules, even though each day. But this is about a slightly different aspect of our activity, about the problem of rape of Parliament by continuous such introductions. Well, what I'm saying is that for all of us, the issue remains very important, especially the election in Kiev. Because we really have to do a technical function here -- to assign elections and give the Chinese the right to choose their power -- the mayor and the MPs. So this question is being ignored, it's being rejected by the Party of Regions and also by the Communists, because they don't want power to change in Kiev. At the same time, the lobbyist issues that are being raised today seem to be being repeatedly imposed in the Supreme Council. I say again, you can at least put it under the Rules every day, but will it be right? When we break someone’s knee, we may be forced to do things he does not want to do. So, Vladimir Vasilovich, let's at least cut ourselves, because instead of looking at the new laws and regulations that we need, let's go back and forth to what someone needs. Well, let them explain, maybe more, at some hearing that it's too necessary. Then, perhaps, there will be these voices in the room for inclusion in the agenda. Although, I want to say that when it comes to the issues themselves, you could listen to all sorts of things on the one hand and on the other, but we're wasting too much time on these moments of repetition, the third, the fourth, the introduction of those things that were already here on more than once, and we haven't found support. So let us somehow find ways to examine new and needed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u23	I agree. But the committees make proposals. I have to put it to a vote. Please, Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u24	Rosenka, Vitaly Clitchka Strike Party. Well, the wonders of the legality of this committee impress me. I'm sorry, we don't have any drafts on these committees for three or four months. There's a bill registered here at night. Yesterday, the committee is meeting and is already waving some kind of, you don't know, decision. So again, on our knees for the fourth time in a row, they're trying to force us to vote for a corrupt anti-constitutional body. I'll tell Mr. Homutinik, the President of Ukraine has approved a decree approving the Mindoche clause with a grave violation of the Constitution. He gave this ministry powers, which according to Ukrainian laws belong to other central authorities of executive power. We're being tried again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u25	Let me finish. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u26	. Once again, with some kind of manic stubbornness, you force us to vote and go back to one question, to another. Why the Mindhodes? Then let's go back to the election issue in Kiev, the fourth time in a row. Let's go back and vote on the issue of pension reform. Let's go back. Why do you ask the question only of the Mindohites, who only cares about a bunch of small businessmen who are sitting in your factions and the fourth time in a row, you put them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We, the fundamental decision of our faction, are insinuating corruption in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are against the introduction of such laws to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u27	I beg you, the Communist faction. And then you. Yes, Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I would now like to refute the publicly false information provided by our factions — the Company’s faction — to vote in favour of the Kiev elections. All those projects that were submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council were supported by the Company faction and the faction voted in favour of the election in the city of Kiev. But I want to draw your attention, distinguished voters, to why this false information is spreading. It is widespread because today the Kiev Council is composed of the Chernobyl Group, the BUTovts, the SHOCK and others who cannot and cannot solve the problems of the city of Kiev. They're only able to decimate the city, destroy the green plantations, capture the sites, understand the budget, and much more. That's why they're looking after their interests today as soon as possible. We support elections for the people, for the people of Kiev, not for the oligarchs and.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u29	Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, each committee has the right to make its own proposals. You and I agreed to vote for the committee proposals, the committee voted for it, 16 votes. Why should we refuse to do so? This is, first of all, not a democratic violation of the Rules Act. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u31	The discussion is over. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act (Registration No. 2833) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:26:56]] For 241 Against it, 143. It's been held down to three. There was no vote on 32. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 195, Fatherland – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 1, Ukraine – 31, non-fractional – 14. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda (Registration No. 2834) of amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. Shall we discuss it? Shall we? Shall we vote? I beg you, the head of the Vitaly Juryovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the situation is quite similar to the previous law. In the preceding article, we considered the order of the day change to the Tax Code. This is the same situation, but which concerns the Customs Code of Ukraine and the functioning of the customs authorities. So these are identical bills that also need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to include in the agenda of the draft law (registration number 2834) amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:29:00]] For 240 Against - 143. We're holding on to five. They didn't vote 34. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 193, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Company - 32, non-fractional - 14. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2835) of amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. How will we view it? Do we need to talk? You don't have to. I beg you, the head of the Vitaly Juryovich Homutinnick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! This is the third block of legislation related to the functioning of the Ministry of Income and Assembly. This section of the bill amends 118 legislative acts that change the names of the customs authorities and the State Tax Office to the name of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. Again, it's more of a norm-making, legal change that's technical. Support is also needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2835) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:31:19]] For 242 Against it is 139. We're holding on to two. We didn't vote, 39. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 196, "Paternity" – 0, Vitalia Klitka – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 14. I'm asking who's with the strike faction? From the impact faction, listen! Agafone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u36	Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, I wanted us to follow the rules that we agreed on and also pay attention to the implementation of the Rules. According to the rules of the Rules, your duties include declaring those absent at the beginning of each morning’s meeting, those who are ill, and those who are not. I'm asking you, since you already have the registration data, do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I answer the question of the MP. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk is or isn't he? Yes. It's all about shipping. Is Dombrovsky in the hall? The stallion? He's on vacation. Yes. Is there a Mironenko? Yes. Mountain? He's sick. And Truhanov? All of it. I don't have any other data. So let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2836) of amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the personal data protection system. Is there a need to discuss? None. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2836) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the personal data protection system. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:35:21]] For 397 Against it, 1 / 1 It's been held down to two. We didn't vote 23. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 197, Fatherland - 77, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Freedom - 36, Company - 32, non-fractional - 25. Next, a proposal is made to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law (Registration No. 2837) amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of State anti-corruption policies. Is there a need to discuss? None. I'll bet you a vote. Please register to discuss the matter. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, please! Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, and we will make a decision. Simonenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u38	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Vasiljevic, I would like to ask you, given that this bill has only been tabled today to at least make the chairman, i.e. the chairman of the committee, comment on the content of the draft law, because we have no idea of the contents of the draft, and this certainly raises questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] In this situation, I would like to ask once again that the procedure provides for the introduction of a law which is submitted by the committee's respective chairman or who has received this commission from the committee. The Company's faction will, once the information is provided, finally decide how we vote, whether we include it in the agenda or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u39	Honorable deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, there are questions that may arise, and there is a proposal for a reduced procedure to address this issue. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:38:14]] For 240 Against the 16th. It's held up to 51. We didn't vote, 115. Decision taken. I ask the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of Viktor Vasilovich Chumak to provide information on this law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u40	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Dniprovsky district, Kiev Dear colleagues, the committee had considered this bill carefully yesterday, it was serious enough, complex enough, and contained materials that were consolidated to discuss four factions. We suggest that it be placed in the agenda today for further discussion. Thank you. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u42	The bill provides for a series of changes in financial control arrangements, the publication of registers of persons who are attracted to corruption, and the publication of financial declarations. The law provides for the incompatibilities of working, related, and loved ones. That is to say, a sufficiently serious mechanism is being introduced to counter corruption in the country, and the basic Law on Anti-Corruption and Prevention of Corruption is being supplemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u43	Sit down, thank you. Sit down, thank you. Is there a need to discuss now or do we vote? Vote. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2837) to include the agenda of the daily session to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of State anti-corruption policies. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:28]] For 394 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 28. Decision taken. The factions of the Party of the Regions include 194, Fatherskina 77, Vitalia Klicka 36, Freedom 36, the Company 31, Postfactional 20. A draft Law (Registration No. 2800) is being introduced to amend the Code of Budgets for Ukraine in connection with the creation of income and congregation bodies. Is there a need to discuss? Vote. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2800) on amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code in connection with the creation of income and assembly bodies. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:42:00]] For 244 Against 142. We're holding on to one. There was no vote – 33. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 197, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, The Company – 32, Postfaction – 15. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2845) of amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for financial notes. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a need. There is a suggestion to discuss this with a reduced procedure. People's deputies please sign up. Please sign up. Got it. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking at Rizenkowo Alexander Mikolayovich. Is there a Rizenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u44	Deputies! The bill proposes to define bank and treasury financial bills, to establish the form of their issuance, order of issuance, circulation, and repayment. The need for its adoption is based, above all, on the fact that in order to fully function such bills, which have been introduced by Ukraine's laws to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on improving tax and assembly administration and amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the further improvement of tax and assembly administration, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to Ukraine's Tax and Budgetary Codes, to Ukraine's bill circulation laws, to share papers and stock market, to Ukraine's State Budget for 2013. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the State and local budgets. Its acceptance was approved by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, the State Treasury of Ukraine and others. With regard to the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, they are technical, legal and can be removed during the drafting of the bill on the committee. I believe that the implementation of the bill will have a positive impact on the expenditure of the State budget, namely: it will contribute to the effective provision of conditions and the application of financial bills to pay the tax on added value and. receiving budgetary compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u45	After the committee’s chairman’s information, there is a need for discussion. The "fatherland" faction, Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u46	Please give it to Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u47	Sergei Sobolev, please
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u48	Sobolje, Fatherland. Judging by the urgency of these three questions, which are now being discussed and the following, the question is the following. Indeed, the state budget will lose nothing but thousands and thousands of Ukrainian entrepreneurs who the government of Azarova-Januković does not compensate for the added value tax. According to the first quarter, almost 55 billion dollars of tax added value have not been compensated. What does that mean? Instead of doing business, it's suggested that we release promissory notes that will focus on authorized structures with discounts, and this will allow us not to actually return these costs to businesses. This means that in fact our large companies, the small ones that export, eventually instead of getting the circulation costs that they're going to send to the payroll and all the other needs, to buy the necessary technology, they're going to get not the money, they're going to get the bills that actually don't have any support. This means that the country goes into the debt hole; this means that in fact the country will get absolutely nothing out of it, except for a few authorized banks that will miss these bills under these schemes. That's why our faction has once again discussed this issue and believes that this issue cannot be addressed without serious financial expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u49	Freedom Union, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Blawajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u51	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u52	Dear Head! Deputies! These three laws of Mr. Omelchenk had to be unified into one. And then we would see a general corruption scheme that basically confirms the same thing in every law. I've already told you that a more terrible law in Ukraine has not been passed during independence. You continue to insist on that and you want to bring chaos into the state into the financial market, collapse in the stock market, and instability in the banking system. You've completely destroyed the economy today. You sleep every day and you dream in the night of dreams and illusions. You mention what other government strategic objects you have not privatized. And you want to pass a criminal law today to privatize all of this tomorrow, so-called acceptance of the queue to be held in the state. You have to ask a question to the Cabinet today. And the Cabinet of Ministers is violating the Constitution of Ukraine. Because he has no right to regulate the issuance, release and settlement of these promissory notes. I think you're going to adopt a law today that will lead Ukraine to such a pit, a collapse from which we will not escape in the last 10 years! Glory to Ukraine! I, we will not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u53	Rozenko's Vitaly Call, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u55	Please tell Pinzeni.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I beg you, I ask you not to take sin upon soul. It's about running into a very dangerous tool. Unfortunately, many of us have forgotten, as is the recent salary, that the pension was paid with salt, soap, candy, sugar -- when the barter took over all the areas of economic activity and the relationship with the budget. The budget does not allow any calculations other than cash. A barter scheme, remember when virtual calculations were used using the famous English word discount, meaning “stolen. ” As far as bank notes are concerned, I am surprised at the position of the National Bank, because in fact, by making this decision, we allow the money to flow into virtual new money. In fact, we give commercial banks emission activity because it's not about promissory notes as a way to raise funds, but it's about how to fulfill commitments. I urge all thinking deputies to vote against the inclusion of all bills on bills in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u57	I beg you, the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, 74th district, Party of Regions May I have the floor to Michael Chechtev?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u60	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed by this law to define bank and treasury financial bills, to establish the form of their issuance, order of issuance, circulation, and repayment. In doing so, it is proposed that a financial bill be issued as a security of value, indicating the obligation of banking institutions to pay the specified amount of the holder of the bill and the treasury bill as a security of value, indicating the central authority’s monetary obligation. In short, this bill allows for the expansion of bottlenecks in the country's financial system. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u61	Don't scream! Let's say hello to Mikhail Vasilovich for speaking Ukrainian. The discussion is over. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (No.2845) on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for financial notes. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:52:26]] For 247 Against 129, held – 3, not voted – 40. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party: 197, Fatherland – 4, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 32, non-fractional – 14. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2846) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (to improve the procedure for financial notes). I give the floor to the Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Mr. Eugène Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to address the issue of the legislative settlement of the financial billing system in a comprehensive manner. The draft law provides for the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the issuance of circulation and payment of financial treasury bills issued by the central executive authorities, which conducts treasury services in accordance with the State Budget Act for the year in question. By 1 January 2013, the money-servicing authority compensates taxpayers for the value added tax by issuing financial treasury bills. Please support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u63	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up for a reduced procedure. Freedom Union, Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u65	They've passed it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! In 1917, Communist Bolsheviks replaced gold money with paper. Today, the Communist Party faction has been helping the current oligarchs to replace even paper money into phantas. I want the entire society to see who is making the majority that is voting for the plight of the Ukrainian nation, who is voting for the theft of Ukrainian assets, who is helping the present Party of Regions to steal what is left of us in Ukraine. And I'm not surprised if in the next plenary session, because in the next session, there's going to be a vote on the issue of introducing coupons instead of bonds, money and signs that are still being quoted in Ukraine. I urge the entire Ukrainian people to analyze, and when it comes to resigning the government, to analyze and draw conclusions. When the Communists shout at the oligarchs, by their vote they strengthen them, by their vote they destroy the Ukrainian economy, by their vote they destroy the national wealth of Ukraine. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will not vote in favour of inclusion and in general for this law as well as for Law 2847. This is our principled position that we will not deviate from. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u67	I'm asking you, Fatherland faction, Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction opposes the inclusion of this bill as well as the entire package from three to one. What is behind these three attempts to push the bill through Parliament? First of all, it's government bankruptcy. Despite all the discussions about improvement, there is no money to settle with the company and budget honestly according to the law. That's the first one. It's got to be admitted. And so tomorrow's question of resigning the government becomes more relevant. The other one. It's not a market, it's a corrupt mechanism. Notice who read those projects that you give the Cabinet of Ministers? On behalf of the legislative body, he himself will determine the conditions of these papers. He's going to write a 100-year commitment to entrepreneurs, he can put a discount every year for 5 or 10 percent, even without all the "lookers" who take those discounts. What, though, about those who worked in the companies that budgeted for these funds? Papers too? They'll also wait a few years, or wait until someone, and obviously the Ministry of Income and Assembly, plus looking at each area, in every area, will determine who, and when, and with what discount, will these commitments be repaid? A purely corrupt scheme, absolutely irresponsible. I'm offering everyone who not only has business in this room and can suffer, but those who care about people who don't get paid to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u69	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, District No. 74, Party of Regions Please pass the word to Vladislav Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u71	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u72	Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! In fact, the situation in the Ukrainian economy is not easy, but it's not to be forgotten that every year and this year, too, we pay for gas, for contracts that are concluded for 10 years, for 100 billion dollars of extra expenses that we had before. And these acquisitions left us with a past team that doesn't understand the economy or the issues that need to be addressed urgently. So by adopting this mechanism, we're giving additional mechanisms to get the money into the economy and to solve the current problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u73	Pinzenik, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Let's think about what this is about. It is an unprecedented thing that the budget will be calculated in front of those who are guilty, not of money, but of papers called bills. At which point the government will determine the cost of such calculations. One will have the money, and the other will have the papers. If anyone is so eager to run a bill, I have an offer, to those who propose such a scheme to start paying wages and all the incomes with bills, but don't move people.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u75	I'm asking for a faction of Communists, Simonenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u76	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The company reiterates and reiterates that the value added tax is a criminal, corrupt tax. And we would like all the people's deputies to understand today that the issue needs to be resolved, in fact, and I would like to draw attention to everything, and when and who introduced this value added tax, when we Communists categorically opposed the introduction of this value added tax. Chicago boys who ran under nationalist slogans fled to parliament and then imposed a value-added tax on the West to destroy the economy for 20 years of independence. And you today, claiming to be effective owners, have shown that you are effective crooks and thieves, that's what we need to understand today. The company has long offered to replace the value added tax with a turnover tax and to point out that the State has provided real support to the real economy rather than dealing with the corruption tax on VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u77	The discussion is over, Your Honor. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act (Registration No. 2846) on amendments to the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on improving the procedure for financial notes. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:02:39]] For 247 Against the-126. It's been held up to four. There was no vote in 44. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party – 198, Fatherland – 3, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 15. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session (registration number 2847) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (to improve the procedure for financial notes). I ask the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitali Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! This bill relates to the previous two bills and relates to the same subject, the possibility of applying financial bills to the value added tax. I'm the only one who would like to add or perhaps correct those fears that have now been announced about the forcible issuance of such promissory notes, or other issues that are not at all the subject of consideration of these bills. By 1 January 2014, there is an opportunity for entrepreneurs, for businesses to obtain such instruments, financial instruments, if there is a wish, if there is a request to get tools that businesses, which will be able to account for banks, to obtain refinancing and to do other things that relate directly to the business activity and to replenish the circulation costs. So I think these are useful bills that will provide additional opportunities for business. And whether they're used by them or not, it's already a business of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u79	Shall we vote? There is a need to discuss. Please sign up. Let's do it in a reduced procedure. Freedom Union, Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Glaucus.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u81	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u82	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 163 electoral. 160 constituency. Well, today's proposal for the introduction of promissory notes is another corruption scheme, because this is the bill. This is a paper that is made available for debt from banks and government agencies to businesses that provide services or goods. So the introduction of promissory notes will create such a corrupt scheme that allows the budget to be filled with unconfirmed financial resources, that is, we create, artificially fill Ukraine's budget with unsecured papers. So this is going to lead to the collapse of the bracelet and the further stagnation of the Ukrainian economy. So we shouldn't joke today, it's a very important and serious question that could lead to the destruction of the Ukrainian economy. We can't run the financial systems of promissory notes, unconfirmed. And so the government that wants those bills to be accounted for in front of businesses is speculation, because let them be accounted for with their wages or their discounts, which they've organized on an all-U.S. level today. So we are absolutely, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support this initiative to introduce these bills as financial. the mechanism of the arming and looting of the Ukrainian budget and the destruction of the Ukrainian economy. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u83	The Fatherland faction, Glaucoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u85	An MP from the Trinity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u86	Right, right, Vladimir Vasilovich. Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Troustina, Fatherland, 213 constituency. I'm talking first of all to our voters right now, and first of all to that segment of Ukrainian entrepreneurs who, with their minds and their hands, are making a hard buck. You probably understand where Ukraine's being pushed, the times that we've been able to barely survive, the barters, you know. Today, we are once again being pushed into such doubles. Because of this, I propose that tomorrow we will consider the question of trust or mistrust of the government, that is, mistrust of the government. I know a little bit of the mood in the community of the Party of Regions, where they're also dissatisfied with Azar and his government. Let's vote for Azarov's resignation tomorrow and choose a very popular character from the famous Popandopolo comedy who painted money on his knees and said, "Take it, I'll draw myself."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u87	The Vitaly Klitschak faction, who's going to perform? Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich! I'd like to go to those people who have a bearing on the economy or have a relationship or were doing business, and the VAT is also going to come back with money, because that's where the incomes of Ukrainian businesses, the incomes of the workers working in these businesses are going to be. Secondly, if you even use a different scheme, you don't have to issue promissory notes. We have a tool that's been used on more than one occasion, called "commitments of domestic government loans." What are we talking about now? Indeed, voluntarily. In a voluntary mode, enterprises will be offered, they have a very simple choice: either you get nothing or you get a paper that can be sold with the same word "disconnant," only you know who will then own the funds. It's about opening up a very corrupt income scheme. And I'm surprised to hear about listening to the anti-corruption laws when instruments are being adopted that open a wide, green road for corruption to flourish in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u89	Party of regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u90	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u91	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been drafted with a view to a comprehensive solution to the issue of the legislative settlement of the mechanism for the use of the financial bill. Please remind me that it used to be. Today, it is predicted that financial bills are used in debt formation. You have a wish, show it now. You have a wish. Wait. In particular, the budget, including the processing of tax reimbursements at added cost. However, in order for the instrument to function fully, we need to discuss and discuss. The implementation of the bill will help ensure that financial bills are used as one of the effective means of paying taxes on added value, increasing the quality of the administration of the added value tax, creating legislative grounds for the full functioning of the financial bill instrument. We believe that we must support this bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u93	The discussion is over. Attention! I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (Registration No. 2847) on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the procedure for financial notes). People's deputies, please vote. [[11:12:21]] For 248 Against 129, held – 3, not voted – 38. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party: 196, Fatherland – 5, Vitalia Klitschka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 32, non-fractional – 15. Don't bother! Please. We agreed to consider issues -- called numbers -- there is now a proposal to consider two issues concerning Euro-integration. And the issues that are included in the agenda, including Euro-integration, I ask the committees to prepare and at the evening session we can consider them in accordance with the Rules. A proposal is made to review the draft Law (register No. 2802). I'm asking for your attention! 2802 – amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring national legislation into line with the standards of the Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption. And I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Kozemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. What's the offer? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Is there any objection? Roger that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There is a proposal to vote. The committee shall make such a proposal. Please vote. [[11:14:36]] For 207 Against 48, held 49, did not vote 144. Decision taken. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! On 17 April this year, the Committee on Law Enforcement took up a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring national legislation into line with the standards of the Criminal Convention on the fight against corruption. Submitted by me, as well as by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Tihypco, Chumak, Nemira, Petrenko, Knabieki, i.e. representatives of the four factions of Parliament. I would like to remind you that this bill has emerged as a result of our lively debate on Bill 2033. The opposition has expressed its specific, supported by scientists, observations, and the government has listened to us, which is why we have drafted this bill and will try today to compromise and approve the agreed decision. After reviewing the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, noted that, compared to Bill No. 2033, there are substantial advantages in these projects: the proposed changes proposed by the Government to articles 368 by 368 with the badge 4 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminalizing the promise of wrong convenience and adopting the promise of wrong benefits in relation to business structures. This would rule out pressure on business, as such an initiative would create opportunities for abuse by law enforcement agencies. In addition, the project excludes pressure on business by increasing responsibility for private sector corruption. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council does not support this bill, unfortunately. We believe that there are valid comments that can be taken into account in the second reading. The committee decided unanimously to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? You don't? Please sign up: two for, two against, for discussion. Please, the Motherland faction of Brigine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u96	Brigitte, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u97	Please, Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u98	Mr. Chairman! I'm addressing you and the Parliamentary Hall. We just got off the phone with Andrey Anatolyovich. This bill is a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole! Because this bill does not need to be redrafted in the second reading. We brought him in as a match. We can immediately vote and send him to the President's signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u99	Please hit Vitaly Call.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u100	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u101	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u102	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Vitalia Klicka faction, Kiev. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that this bill, which is a consolidated work of deputies from all factions, refers to the issue of criminalizing corruption. This is a requirement of two international conventions against corruption that have long been joined by Ukraine. I would like to point out that the issue of corruption in Ukraine has long grown into a matter of national security. And that is recognized by all the documents, all the speakers, all the representatives of all the branches of government about when they evaluate the issue of corruption. Moreover, I would like to point out that the other day just released a report from the Ministry of Justice on the issue of anti-corruption. Where the estimate of corruption damage for administrative and criminal offences related to corruption reaches 2 billion dollars! Think about the number! Two billion dollars. I'd like to point out that corruption offenses, they're very latent, they're hidden, they can't be traced completely. So this number can be boldly multiplied by 10, 20, 30, and then we'll just get that real one. The loss of corruption suffered by the State. Regrettably, Ukraine is now in a corrupt environment, while normal, healthy behavior, good conduct, is an unusual phenomenon. I think it's time, and we have this opportunity to break this situation. Today, with the adoption of these laws, we can take the path of adopting effective and effective legislation if it is yet to be done in an executive capacity. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u103	Party of regions, who's going to perform? Tihypka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u104	Mr. Head, my fellow dignitaries, I think we have a very good example right now when representatives of the majority and the opposition worked together on four laws for about two weeks. And here are four laws: 2802, 2803, 2836 and 2837 all worked together. And I think that's a good example for us for the future. I would also like to support this law in the first, in the second, and in general. And can we give crane Vitalia another minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u105	The Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u106	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ukraine. Please pass the word to the Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u107	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u108	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, as has already been said, this bill, like the next one, is the result of the work of representatives of all four factions in Parliament. During long - term work, this work took place with the participation of Europeans, and all the requirements of international conventions are taken into account. At the same time, there were warnings about the possibility of pressure on businesses by law enforcement and fiscal authorities. And this has actually become an object of long-term work, unlike the bill that was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And all of these possibilities, I think, are completely removed and the guarantees are provided to ensure that, using as anti-corruption measures, at the same time, there is no pressure on the private sector and the possibility of redistribution of ownership. Thus, the bill provides for effective mechanisms to combat and prevent corruption. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support it. I also think that this bill has been fully worked out. All positions are taken from all factions of four here. And so the proposal for it today to be voted on in the first reading and in general, I think it is appropriate. Moreover, we will have to submit this bill to the European Union by the age of 14. So there's very little time left. And we won't be able to consider this bill in a second reading at that time. So I ask you to ask this question about accepting it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u109	Please, the Communist faction. One minute. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u110	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, have you noticed how the factions have agreed on each other, representing the interests of large capital? Four factions have agreed. The Company's faction in this conspiracy is not going to participate. It is a matter of absolved of responsibility for the commission of crimes, particularly large capital. Today, they have acquired all their property, 90 per cent of their property in their hands, and they have bought power on the ground, and so on. Therefore, today they are trying to absolve themselves of criminal responsibility. Thus, under the slogans that they allegedly agreed between themselves and the European Union's demand, they relieve themselves of their responsibility to Ukrainian citizens for the crimes committed. I want you, my dear voters, to know who is with whom and what you are negotiating, covering for Europe, to continue to give you the right to commit such crimes. Only the people of Ukraine will suffer from this. I am warning you, distinguished voters, and I declare that the faction will not vote for such crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down and prepare yourself. You've already spoken. Prepare for the vote, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. The majority of Parliament’s national deputies have proposed that this law be passed on as a basis and as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 2802) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to bring national legislation into line with the standards of the Criminal Convention on the fight against corruption, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:25:36]] For 362 Against 32, held - 0, not a vote - 27. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 79, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. The draft Act (Registration No. 2803) amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine (in relation to the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine) is submitted for consideration. It is given to the Head of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich. The committee shall make a proposal to review the reduced procedure. No discussion? Please report. Short notice, no discussion. I'm asking you to vote deputies. [[11:27:07]] For 243 Against – 11, held – 40, not voted – 126. Decision taken. Here's the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the bill amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine (in relation to the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine) (No. 2803) was also developed by a working group composed of representatives of four parliamentary factions, as well as representatives of the government and the European Union. In fact, it is an alternative to the government bill number 1103. This bill, once again, is supported by four factions and aimed at improving the procedure, and confiscation of property used for the purpose of committing the crime or during the commission of the crime, as well as property derived from the commission of the crime. The bill (No. 2803) amends the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine and distinguishes it from government (No. 1103) because a special confiscation is carried out solely on official crimes, i.e. corruption, and which are committed for useful reasons. In addition, circumstances that are subject to mandatory evidence in criminal proceedings have been added to the list of circumstances that confirm that money, values, and other property that are subject to special confiscation have been obtained as a result of the commission of a criminal offence. In addition, the text of the bill, previously proposed, excludes changes to a particular part of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. So we've removed all of the most controversial points and come up with a consistent text of the law. Dear colleagues, members of the committee at their meeting unanimously supported Bill 2803. The committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct it on first reading as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u113	As agreed, I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2803) amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine (in relation to the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation of the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine) for adoption in the first reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:30:12]] For 362 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 57. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 83, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 22. We're moving on in the daytime. The issue of ratification. It is proposed that the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Emancipation of the Memory of Courage and Heroism of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 be considered. Reported by Deputy Regional Development Minister Grigory Mikhailovich Semchuk. How will we view it? After a brief discussion, I ask the National MPs to vote. [[11:31:34]] For 199 Decision taken. Two minutes, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which is before you today, is designed to ratify the Treaty on the Emancipation of the Memory of Courage and Heroism of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War, signed by the President of our State with warnings on behalf of Ukraine on September 3, 1990 in Dushanbe. I note that during the years of independence, Ukraine has signed agreements on the preservation of military burials and the perpetuation of the memory of victims of war and political repression with countries such as the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, the Republic of Poland, the Italian Republic, Slovakia. The adoption of the bill requires the creation of a legal basis for Ukraine to carry out a set of measures for the proper interaction of state institutions and public organizations in the search, calculation, arrangement, security, preservation and maintenance of military graves and military monuments, as well as for the search and burial of those killed during the Great Homeland War in Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat. The report is Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u116	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Agreement on the Emancipation of the Memory of Courage and Heroism of the People of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 (registration No. 0011) and approved the decision to support its adoption by the Supreme Council, taking into account the warning made during the signing of the agreement. With regard to article 14, paragraph 1, of the Agreement on non-requirement for Ukraine to coordinate the activities of the authorized authorities of the parties with regard to the implementation of the agreement by the Council of Defence Ministers of the SND States. The main objective of the agreement is to create legal grounds for the development of cooperation between Ukraine and the SND participating States in the area of the remembrance of war victims, the interaction of state bodies and public organisations in the search, calculation, equipment, collection and maintenance of military graves and military monuments, as well as the exhumation and burial of war victims. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the agreement can be signed. ratified, I'm sorry, given the warning. The High Council Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the costs that could arise during the implementation of the agreement should be carried out at the expense of the budget and within the budgetary allocations provided for the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing under the budgetary programme "search and organize the burial of victims of war and political repression." But if the law is passed, it can take effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u117	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u118	and in the case of the adoption of the relevant law, it may take effect according to legislation. Dear colleagues, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u119	Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two against. Freedom Union, Peace Corps, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u120	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Shevchenko Alexandro Oxentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u121	Pass the word, Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u122	The Freedom faction. The Freedom faction supports the perpetuation of the memory of the heroes who died in the wars. But the Freedom faction cannot agree with the phrase "in the Great Homeland War." The Ukrainians did not just die in what is now called the Soviet-Nazi War. [[B in m in s a l in]] But in early September 1939, in the Soviet-Finland war, in the Soviet-Japanese war. That is, we stand for the memory of the dead Ukrainians in World War II, not just one stage. In addition, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union does not agree that some actions are provocative. In particular, crews of eight must visit the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova. I've already stated that I'm not in agreement with the Republic of Moldova and there might be an international scandal, by the way. In addition, it is estimated that the crews are about a few thousand miles away. Whose account? Although it is said that it is a special account, the funds are not allocated. In addition, it is meant that these actions are now being used to promote the unification of Ukraine, including the European Union. In particular, it was condemned.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u123	A party of regions, Koleznichenko, please turn on the microphone on the stand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u124	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I think that ratification of this document is a very significant decision by the President of Ukraine and a very significant decision that I have no doubt will be taken today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, all people of goodwill, good citizens of Ukraine, those who are patriots of our State, look forward to this document being ratified. He will show the will of the Ukrainian people who are ready to defend the outcome of the Great Homeland War, the outcome of the victorious march of the Red Army and of the Soviet people who destroyed the “Cortaric Plague”. Yes, unfortunately, the "corrosive plague" is growing today with the apparent growth of neo-Naziism in our State. Yes, this is the tragedy of the victorious people. But once we have ratified this document, we will unite with the CIS countries that are implementing the United Nations resolution to prevent the rehabilitation of those who have taken up arms against the countries of the anti-Hitler coalition. It is our duty, it is our duty to our grandfathers and fathers, who have made a remarkable feat in the struggle for the independence of the Soviet State, the independence of the Ukrainian State. And I am proud that my grandfather, both of them, fought for the independence of our State in the fight against the blue plague. And today, I think, in the memory of our grandparents, we must fight neo-Naziism and Fascism and in our parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u125	National MP Blackwolf, Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u126	Dear friends, well, first of all, if we look at this determination, we still have to get out of what historical science tells us. And the modern historical science of the world says that there was no such concept as the Great Homeland War. There was World War II, which began on September 1, 1939, and in addition to the nations that were then part of the Soviet Union, there were many different nations, including those who were also allies at certain stages of the Soviet Union. From 1939 to 1941, the Soviet Union was an aggressor with German. With Nazi Germany. So when we discuss all these issues, we should probably discuss the memory and memory of all those who died in World War II. In the city of Kiev, Poles were buried in the Bykovnian Forest, including in Ukraine. Polish prisoners of war who were shot by the NKVD in 1939-1940. Their memory should also be eternalized and remembered in some way, not just by the encavedes who died in 1941 during the execution of punitive operations, such as in the same Lviv and other places where they killed both prisoners of war and civilians who were then in Soviet prisons. Dear friends, this is a very difficult question. We shouldn't lock ourselves in the SND, because that's the thing that goes nowhere. We need to get out of the humane values and so mention everyone who died in World War II. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u127	Ukraine’s Company. Simonenko, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u128	Are you ready? Dear colleagues! Most importantly, I want to address our dear voters. The Company's faction will vote in favour of this document. No matter what decisions we make today, the sacred duty of each of us is to pay the highest tribute to the winners who have truly brought glory to the Soviet people and to the Soviet country. In fact, I would like to remind nationalists that after 30 June in Lviv, we cut more than 9,000 intelligences into pieces in one week, as you said. So you are. I understand what you're saying. I urge you today not to forget those we know, who are still living with us and who are out of our lives. And our sacred duty today is to bring the graves, monuments, obelisks into order so that the purpose may be eternal and the future generation will remember this great feat and shed blood for not only our country's independence. The fact that it was the Soviet people that liberated Europe and the world from this disease, the brown plague. We also propose today and to address everyone, I appeal to you, MPs who own the media, to exclude us from showing movies like 1941, when everything about the Great Victory is distorted. I also propose to enact laws that increase criminal responsibility for all those who commit vandalism against monuments and obelisks. We are, of course, this year's communists, calling for a victory parade, and it is with this victory parade that I call on our young people, young people and girls today, to take the most expensive photographs of their grandparents from their family albums, to take their photo and to go with a photograph of their winning grandfather on the main streets, both the capitals of Ukraine and the cities of Ukraine. It is this victory parade that we call for today to be a symbol of our deepest respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u129	Let me finish. Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u130	We can finish this, can't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u132	Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Company's faction will vote in favour of this bill and calls upon all the MPs to support by voting precisely what we have to do before the heroes of the Great Homeland War, before our glorious grandfathers and ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. Let's get to our seats. We'll be clear. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0011) on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Eminence of Memory, on the Courage and Heroism of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 to be adopted in general with a warning made when signing the Agreement. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:46:40]] For 281 Against the 4th. It's held up to 60. They didn't vote - 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 189, Fatherland - 15, Vitalia Klicka - 25, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 32, non-fractional - 20. A draft law is being introduced. Well, a minute, based on Bondarenko's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u134	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. When we voted for this, for this ratification, everyone mentioned some moments of their lives. I also mentioned that, for example, my grandfather's grave is in Belarus. I restored several monuments, including when leaving Kiev, the Memorial to the guerrillas on the Zitomir route, and much more. But I believe that Ukraine should make equal treaties with other states, not with the unification of nations. Because our rights in that union will always be smaller. And any cooperative decision will be dominant for us. We will not be able to pursue our national Ukrainian policy in such a relationship. Thus, part of our faction did not support the signing of such an agreement with our partnership. Although with each of the member states, we can happily vote and sign such an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u135	On the basis of the vote, the People’s Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u136	Of course, I'm sorry and I can't help but wonder that the Fatherland faction didn't support this bill today. With the Freedoms, it was clear, they had another war. And they fought with others for other values. And they fought against their own people, against those who lived alongside them. But today we must not treat this issue separately. And whatever the name of those nations that were then united into one great state of the Soviet Union, it was our victory, and we must respect it. And really there were some words at all: "We have one victory and we don't exist at a price." And our grandparents didn't stand for it. And the fact that we made a separate observation shows our particular national attitude, including that of the issue. Be careful and considerate.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (Registration No. 0013) on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Cooperation of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of cultural values and ensuring their return is under consideration. I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Victor Ivanovich Ratushnyak. How will we view it? I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:50:42]] For 178. Decision taken. Short-term. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u138	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, is proposed for consideration by a draft law drafted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in accordance with the provisions of part six of article 9 of the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement signed in Dushanbe on October 5, 2007. The bill proposes to ratify the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of cultural values and to ensure their return with a warning that the Ukrainian side will retain its obligations to harmonise national legislation in the area of the fight against the theft of cultural values and ensure their return. And with regard to the implementation of SND-agreed measures to implement the provisions of universal and regional multilateral treaties aimed at combating the degradation of cultural values of which the parties are parties. The implementation of the terms of the agreement will not require additional costs from the state budget. It will not be carried out within the limits of the allocations foreseen for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as the budgetary allocations allocated for the maintenance of other central executive bodies involved in the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement. The adoption of this law will create the legal basis for a treaty to take effect that will demonstrate the desire of our State to deepen its practical interaction with the law enforcement authorities of the SND States and contribute to Ukraine’s efforts to combat crime at national and international levels. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Sit down, Victor Ivanovich. The report is the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u140	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law by the President of Ukraine on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of cultural values and ensuring their return (registration number 0013) and approved the decision to support its adoption by the Supreme Council, taking into account the warnings made during the signing of the agreement. However, according to which the Ukrainian side refrains from the obligation to harmonise national legislation under the SND. As for implementation, action is agreed within the SND to implement the provisions of universal and regional multilateral agreements. Ratification of this agreement will create legal principles for coordinating Ukraine's cooperation with the SND member states in the fight against the theft of cultural values and ensuring their return, more fully guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens in this area. The agreement provides that each party shall ensure the introduction by the competent authorities of information databases on missing, lost, stolen, searched, and detained, removed, arrested, or confiscated cultural values. The budget committee of the Supreme Council concluded that the implementation of the agreements would not require additional costs from the state budget. But in the event of adoption, it may become effective in terms, according to Ukrainian legislation. Dear colleagues, please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Have a seat. Is there a need to discuss? I'd like you to sign up 2 for that, 2 for that. I beg you, Freedom Union, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u142	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Eugene Melnik. Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u143	Pass the word, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u144	Honorable deputies. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports the conclusion of the Cooperation Agreement in the fight against the spread of cultural values. But if this agreement were called the "Agreement of Ukraine with the member states of SND", it's called the "Cooperation Agreement of SND States Parties". That is, Ukraine is said to be a member of the SND, which contradicts reality. So "Freedom" is speaking out against this formulation, even though it's a struggle. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that whatever agreements are not entered into with the Russian Federation, they are never implemented. All I want to do is turn to history. In November 1917 the Council of People’s Commissioners of the Russian Federation adopted a decree on the return of the trophies of Ukraine and Poland captured at the end of the 13th century. It is these trophies that are still in Ermitage. This is the transfer of cultural values. Similarly, in the years of World War II, many museum and rare artifacts were exported from Ukraine. Similarly, entire factories, factories, and so forth were exported. But Russia did not. the rights and did not allow it to return to Ukraine, as did the fascists in Ukraine, the artifacts exported to Germany, became the trophies of Russia and Russia even silenced that many of the values of Ukraine were contained in its museums. Just like Troy’s famous gold, only about seven years ago did they recognize that it was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u145	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u146	And finally, I would like to say that the restitution law in Russia is forbidden to return those values to their country of origin. So any deal with the Russian Federation is not worth the paper it's written on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u147	Thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Chicken. Is he gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u148	The word Mathios, pass it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u149	Mathios, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u150	Maria Mathios, Vitaly Call's Faction. The Vitalia Klicka faction will support the vote in favour of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Cooperation of States Parties in the Fight against the Dissemination of Cultural Values. But the strike faction insists that the government must take all necessary measures to prevent the theft of cultural masterpieces in Ukraine from museums and library funds, from Ukrainian churches, because this could turn into a humanitarian disaster. On this issue, according to the UDA faction, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Culture are obliged to work in sync, because how can we prevent the theft of cultural values in Ukraine when there is actually no so-called UNESCO register of cultural values in Ukraine. When in almost every "blush market" in Ukraine you can buy old icons from the Ukrainian churches for nothing. When any Ukrainian official is unhindered, it's almost legal to remove artistic rarities from the museum and there's no punishment for that. The strike faction insists that as long as museums and library workers have those measurable co-pays, they will freeze in unburned rooms, in memorial museums, in unprotected rooms, until the country's cultural values flow freely across our borders. And we're going to fight here on how to get them back. Thus, the Ministry of Culture’s register should protect the special protection of rural museums, the memorial rooms where these unique monuments are stored. If that's not the case, until after the sculpture, Ukrainian pins at best.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u152	At best, the sculptures of all Ukrainian pins will be seen by the Louvre, and in the worst case, they will be turned into private collections. So hit insists that Minculture should sort out all that belongs to cultural values in a single register, the IMF should ensure the protection of the objects in which these values are stored. Mincultures with Minfin are obliged to pay those who have these values according to human needs, and Ukrainian customs are especially obliged to monitor the movement of these values abroad, so we will not seek them in Russia, Germany, and the world over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u153	Thank you. The Motherland faction, Germany. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u154	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends! When you have to be in Moscow or St. Petersburg, go to Ermitage, go to the Russian museum, go to Trelyakowka, and you'll see the first halls where there are ancient Russian paintings of icons. There you will see, especially in Hermitage, in the first hall the beautiful fresco of Dimitri Thessalonica, which is stolen from the Council, which was restored today in Kiev, Mikhailovsky. Recently, Russia passed on eight pieces of painting — that is, it is just a vegetable ornament — and in fact, it has kept the most valuable things. At the time, I was in correspondence with the Russian Federation, and I went to Dmitry Lichachev, and I was beaten, as they say, to the knowledge that return is not yours. So the answer was: "the world's community has used to looking at these masterpieces at the Russian museum in Ermitage and Tretyakovka, so they should stay there." This policy, the chauvinist policy of Russia in relation to Ukraine, is terrible in terms of preserving values. You know, in 1147 the first time was mentioned in the Eupatius chronicle of Moscow by then, we had rules known all over the world that European statesmen knew about Ukraine and the Kiev. So today we're making our big neighbors very jealous, and they want to drag not only Ukraine's economy -- finance and so on, but our history and culture -- they're rewriting it. So I would like us to have a direct relationship with countries, including those that are now part of the SND, but not with this unification, where Russia will always remain with its policies until it nominates, it will always impose this policy on other, smaller SND states. Therefore, I call for agreements to be made only at the interstate level, not with mergers of the SND type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u155	Please, Party of Regions, Žuravsky, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I will follow the text of the bill. This is a very necessary document, and there is no political opposition between, say, factions that are present in Parliament. Acceptance. We will demonstrate by adopting this draft law on the desire of our state to deepen its practical interaction with the law enforcement agencies of the SND states and will contribute to Ukraine's efforts to combat crime at the national and international levels. The cultural values of the Ukrainian people must be returned. That's what this bill is all about. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u157	The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking for the attention of the deputies. The draft law, registration number 0013, on the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of cultural values and ensuring their return for adoption in general with a warning made in the signing of the agreement. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:05:48]] For 256 Against – 0 held – 60 did not vote 83, the decision was taken. Factions: Region Party - 168, Fatherland - 15, Vitalia Klicka - 28, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 15. I pay attention to the National Deputies, at 12.35, we're going to consider a very important question of appointment and dismissal of judges, so there's going to be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We're continuing our work. Do we have MacKeenko in the hall? Vladimir Volodymyrovich. I want to speak to the deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the photos where they vote with two hands for that boy, I very much and very much ask you to vote in person, in person and vote for yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! I'm not done yet, I'm not yelling. I'm asking you, I'm asking the committee, take this information, look at it, but we're about to be determined. And we agreed that all MPs vote in person, which factions they wouldn't be. I'm very, very sorry. Let's move on to the question of. What kind of question do you have? I haven't even asked you a question yet, do you have a question? Procedural? Well, please, by procedure, write down the fraction per minute, by procedure. Let the judges listen. Let's do this the way it is, Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u159	Please. Please pass the word to Valery Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u160	Come on. Valery Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, my dear colleagues, let's end this shameful practice of buttoning. It's like we're done with her. We agreed, Vladimir Vasilovich, that you are announcing a list of missing deputies who have registered. You did it well. You remember how inappropriate it was when Vitaly Volodymyrovich did not register but was in the hall. Similarly, others can confirm their presence, but this will legitimize our decisions. Unfortunately, what you've shown is it undermines confidence in Parliament, in every MP and in you as the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please announce this list. And this will be in the interest of parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u162	I understand you, but you didn't give me that opportunity. We've introduced a draft law, you haven't voted, it's not in the Rules. I'm starting to read. The half-breeds are screaming, the half-breeding says. Let's think about it. I beg of you, Switzerland, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u163	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, today's meeting, during this plenary day, the morning session of the deputies from opposition factions, at least twice, called on you to put laws to the vote. I give my colleagues, including those present, that this was the only condition for unlocking Parliament to secure a personal vote. If this is the case with us, they were all witnesses, thank you very much for their work. By the way, they were only able to hold them at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee yesterday. Today, we demand that we put to the vote all the questions that were voted on in the morning session. This will be fair and will teach buttonmakers to work according to the Rules and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u164	I'm asking you to finish these conversations. They're no longer necessary. The decision is made, the laws are signed. Don't block the rostrum anymore, nobody's going anywhere. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we have a deal? It's a deal. Party of regions. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, you know, it's really, really nice to see that Parliament has worked, we vote, we make important decisions for the country. Now we have to start the matter of assigning judges on a daily basis at 12:30. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, because of political reasons, Parliament has been unable for several months to provide the judicial system for the people who are implementing today. They're doing justice. So I'd like to ask you to take a break in the political peripeties in the session room and get to a constructive job, because unfortunately, we have courts where there are not enough judges today to do justice. And if we continue to argue about who takes something, then, you know, we can get the country messy. So I ask, Vladimir Vasilovich, to begin the question of the appointment of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u166	There are two more factions and we'll go day by day. "Paternity." It's a bummer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u167	Fatherland's Party, Roman Zabzaluk. Mr. Chairman! We're asking you to comply with the "On Working Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" Act. You're just something. Because you obviously wanted to, you gave the committee's head regular proof of the actual vote of one MP for another. So I ask you now, as required by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, to vote on those laws that directly violate the law in force. You don't have to use a law that breathes, you know, because this power that is headed by Yanukovich is about to be enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u168	Thank you. The Communist faction. Who? No questions asked. Let's go. we're going to consider the question of the election and the release of the courts, and we're going to take this matter up. I invite the head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges to report Samsina Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u169	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Ukrainian Law, as well as of the Court and the status of judges, and reviewed the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies regarding the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Ukrainian High Qualification Commission as a member of the panel on the issue of recommending them to be elected without delay. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Order 2444-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u170	2444-3. Call me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u171	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kwalova Maksim Valeriyovich; The First-Major District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Klimov Hanna Mikhaylovna; The Pavlovgrad District Court of Dnipropetrov, District of Krugów Aleksandrovitch; The Jenakiyev City Court of the Donetsk district of Darmin Mikhail Alexanderovich; The Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Karpenko Oksana Mikolayevna; The Mikitov District Court of Gorlovka, Donetsk district of Rodin Nela Volodymyrna; The Ternopil miscreion court of the Ternopil district of Djubić Viktor Leonidovich; The Balakli District Court of Kharkiv District, Yakovlev, Victoria Sergiyevna; Dvoričany District Court of Kharkiv District of Gnizdilów Yuri Mikolaiovich; The Kolomatsky District Court of Kharkiv district of Losev Dmitry Kostinović; The Krasnograd District Court of Kharkiv County of Ribalchenko Irina Grigorovna; Ripkini District Court of the Chernigiv district of Staskova Valerija Bogdanović; Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Marcinkiewicz Vitalia Anatoliyovich; Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court Zacharychuk Natalija Vitaliyevna, Oilynik Viktor Mikolaiovich, Pavlovski Dmitry Pavlovich; The Land Court of the Vinnitsk Region of Banaszska Alexandra Alexandrovich; The Zacarpathian Economic Court of Prigar Lesy Ivanovna; Ivano-Frankiv District Economic Court of Maleeuve Olen Viktorovna, Yearbook of Alexander Victorovna; the Commercial Court of the Luhansk Region of Vonov Olen Sergiyevna; The Economic Court of Odessa, Stepanov Ludmila Valerievna; the Economic Court of Poltava district of Kulbak Mikhail Mikhailovich; The House Court of Kharkiv District of Brinsev Alexi Vasilovich, Jury of Alexiyovich; Economic Court of the Cherkas region of Borovik Sergija Sergiyyovich. But the last judge did not attend the plenary session of the Supreme Council. He reported that he was on hospital treatment. The master court of Kyiv Grehov Oksana Anatolyevna, Pukshin Ludmila Gelarovna
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u172	Deputies! It came from two factions, from the "Fatherland" faction, from the "Freedom" faction in accordance with part seven of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, at the request of two MP factions, please announce a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 30 minutes. Advertise? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for reasons. Please. By procedure. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, of course, we respect the two factions that have made a statement to the Head of the Supreme Council, but according to our Rules we cannot interrupt the question that has already been put to consideration. So I think we should finish the question that we have already heard the report and then announce the break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u174	Let's get back to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Jacinyuk. The initiator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u175	Mr. Head, you had a statement on your desk before you discussed the matter. That's the first one. So the fact that you didn't announce the break is not a big deal, because we made that statement until the question was considered. Now the second one. We are calling a recess on the question of the appointment of judges. And we ask you, Mr. Head, in your office to hold a meeting with the faction leaders on the matter and how to deal with it, as in the three opposition factions there are important questions as to how these candidates are going to proceed and how to vote for the indefinite appointment of judges. We ask you to meet for 15-20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u176	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I am a normal man, I hear. The deputy came to me and gave me this note and said, "Vlodimir Vasilovich, take a break before the vote." I'm saying, "Okay." And I started, I gave my word, and I started looking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who gave the note? Did you get it? Ready, please turn on the microphone. Am I reporting correctly?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u177	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Volodymyr Vasilovich, in terms of the Rules, has a report from a committee of profile. Similarly, the question is discussed by the deputies. Today, it seems that this issue is classified, disrupting access to information about judges. Therefore, if we are to follow the Rules, there must be a full report. Why is there no report by the profile committee? The MPs also want to participate in the discussion. And we ask you to take a break now and consult with you, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make a deal: I'll call it a 15-minute recess. We'll look at it on the committee, I've got it in my office, and we'll keep working. A break of 15 minutes is announced. I'm asking you to come to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. Turn on Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk's microphone, the break initiators, and we'll keep working. There's an offer to continue working for 15 minutes. Arseny Petrovich, please. Don't you have any questions? None. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been briefed on the Supreme Council's order. Attention, 2444-3. Prepare to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I bet on the vote on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2444-3) "The election of judges," excepting the name Borovik Sergija Sergiyovich. Yeah? Please vote in favour of the ruling. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:57:10]] For the 220. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. And I'm asking the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, please. Go on, talk to me. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to make an announcement. I ask you to make an announcement. Yeah, don't get involved in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u180	What's wrong with you? I've given my word. I'm telling you again. Listen, I asked: break initiators and I turned on Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk's microphone. He says, no questions asked. And then only I put it to the vote. We need to come and hear it, Oleg. But I turned on the microphone, you'll be clear then. What do you want? I gave my word to you initiators. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the question of the return to consideration of Decree 2444-3. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:59:26]] For 228 Against 55. It's been held up to 12. There was no vote – 89. Decision taken. I'm asking for your attention. I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2444-3) on the election of judges. We've ruled out one name that doesn't exist, that's Borovic Sergey Sergiyovich. We vote without that name, I ask the national MPs to vote. [[14:00:53]] For 229 Against 56, held – 11, not voted – 88. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 2, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 29, non-fractional - 13. Please report further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u181	Choose judges, draft decision on the election of judges 2444-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] To elect judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters of Beh Mikola Alexiyovich, Leon Alexander Ivanovich, Litvinova Evgen Volodymyrovich, Parinova Irina Kostinovna, Sweet Andrija Andryovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Turenka Sergey Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of Kharkov district of Brovchenk Igor Aleksandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Hmélník District of Larissa Mikhailnov; Lviv's Court of Appeal of Agriculture, Djakovicz Oles Viktorovna; Novgorodkova District Court of Kirovograd, Mohonka Kostin Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u182	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 2444-1 on the election of judges in general. Please vote. [[14:03:16]] For 226 Against 51. It's held up to ten. I didn't vote '96. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 183, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 1, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional -12. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u183	Draft Election Order (2444-4). Choose judges on an untimely basis: District Administrative Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Gypsy Galina Yuriovna, Sklar Tetjana Alexandrovna; The Viennese District Administrative Court of Multian Marina Bondovna; The Wallin District Administrative Court of Dmitruk Valentin Vasilovich; The Donetsk District Administrative Court of Kirienka Viacheslav Alexanderovich; Smagar Svetlana Volodymyrna; The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court, Gabrielk Sergey Evgenovich; Ivano-Frankiv District Administrative Court of Grigorok Alexander Bogdanović, Matuljak Jaroslav Petrovich; Luhansk District Administrative Court Laughing Aunt Victorian; The Poltava District Administrative Court of Jereshko Ludmila Alexandrovna, Widowishenko Sergija Alexandrovich; The Ternopil District Administrative Court of Ostas Andrija Vasilovich; Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Melnikov Ruslan Volodymirovich; Mr. Kowalczuk Olen Konstantinovna, District Administrative Court of Peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u184	Well, you don't have to vote. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2444-4) on the election of judges as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[14:05:53]] For 230 Against 51, held – 6, not a vote – 87. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 12. Please report further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u185	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2244-5). Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Illichov Mikolaajovich, Kalinick Anton Andriyovich; The household court of the Volin district of Demíc, Valentina Mikolayovna, Suryak Oksana Hennadyevna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Jeremenko Anna Valeriyovna; The Economic Court of the Donetsk district of Sgar Ella Valeriyovna; Viktoria Mikolayovna, Kyiv District Commercial Court; the Economic Court of the Poltava district of Orehovsk Olen Aleksandrovna; the Chamber of Commerce of the Czernigiv district of Cymbal-Nature Marina Petrovna; The court-martial of Kyiv Golovatuk Ljubomir Dmitrović, Jarty Victoria Vasilovna, Prigunov Alla Borisovna, Smyrnov Julius Mikolayovna, Spicak Alexija Mikolaiovich, Cberjak Pavel Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u186	I bet. The National Deputies, I place the vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2444-5) decree on the election of judges as a whole. Please vote. [[14:07:58]] For 232 Against 49, held - 7, did not vote - 84. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 186, Fatherland - 3, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 13. Please report it further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u187	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (2444-6). Choose judges on an untimely basis: Dimitrov City Court of the Donetsk district of Chenchenko Tetjan Alexandrovna By the district court of Donetska Gracheva Ruslan Rifatovich; The Kirov District Court of Donecka Kovalenko Hanna Sergiyevna; Martyr's County Court of Zacarpathia, Morozov Natalia Lasslovna; The U.S. District Court of Zacarpathia, Zarevo Natalia Ivanovna; Zaporozhye Yacuna Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Industrial District Court of Zaporozhye; Sikhov District Court of Lvova Micah Bogdan Romanović; Shevchenkov District Court of Lvova Bayev Alexander Igorovna Malinovo District Court of Odessa, Markarov Svetlana Viktorovna; The coastal district court of Odessa Domuschi Ludmila Vasilovna; Mashov District Court of Poltav district of Sichiokno Tetjana Alexandrovna; The Novosanjar District Court of the Poltava District of Kiriczak Stanislav Anatoliyovich; Kharkiv District Court of the Kharkiv District of Pilugin Olen Mikolayevna; Cerkas District Court of the Cherkas region of Smolar Aleksandr Andriyovich; The Transnistrian District Court of Cherkasa Pazarecki Svetlana Mikhaylovna; The Sosnov district court of Cherkasa Zurbu Sergija Alexandrovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Chernovci Jarem Ljał Vasilovna; The right-wing district court of Kyiv Juravské Olen Vasilovna; Delilian District Court of Kiev Otwinowski Paul Leonidovich; Shevchenkovsky District Court of Kiev Slobodanuk Pavel Leonidovich, Cictic Vitali Mihałovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u188	Attention! Please prepare for the vote. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges (Decision No. 2444-6). People's deputies are requested to vote in general. [[14:11:06]] For 229 Against 10, held – 49, not voted – 79. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 30, Postfaction – 11. Please report further.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u189	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2444-7). Choose judges on an untimely basis: Donetsk’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture, Agapo Aleksandra Leonidovich; Wynnicki City Court of Wynnick Valery Mikhajlovich; Gorokhiv District Court of the Volin district of Schmidt Sergey Anatoliyovich; The Scottish District Court of Volin County, Jevennier's Natalia Viktorovna; The NovoMoscow Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Soroko Olga Volodymyrna; Samarsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska Rumánceva Alexia Pavlovich; The mining district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Kulbakova Igor Valentinović; Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir Chisman Larissa Mikolayevna; Kyivo-Svetoshinsky District Court of the Kyiv Region of Omelchenko Miroslav Mikolayevna; The famous Regional Court of Kirovograd, Saulev Oksana Valentinovna; Chigirine District Court of the Cherkas region of Ivahnenko Olen Grigorovna; The Kyiv District Administrative Court, Bragin Alexander Eugenyevna; the Economic Court of the Lviv district of Mazovit Andrija Bogdanović; The court-martial of the Odessa region of the Smither Anna Eugene; The court-martial of Poltava district Kishk Olen Volodymyrna; The household court of the Czernovetsk district of Nikolayev Mikhail Illić; the household court of the town of Sevastopol Simodsky Dary Alexanderovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u190	Please prepare for the vote. Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2444-7) decrees the election of judges. Please vote for the national deputies as a whole. [[14:13:46]] For 230 Please, come on. There's only one left. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u191	Draft Order on the Election of Judges (No. 2444-8). To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Jemelyanova Artura Stanislavovich; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Fedorov Tetjana Pavlovna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Zaporozhenko Olen Alexandrovna; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal Bartosh Nadia Stanislavna; Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Hripun Oleg Alexiyovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u192	I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges (No. 2444-8). People's deputies are requested to vote in general. [[14:15:07]] For 229 Against 4, held – 8, not voted – 82. Decision taken. The factions. Party of Regions - 187, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 11. About the release of the judges. Please report. Please report the release of the judges. We agreed that we would consider this issue and we would take a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, of course, are all over themselves, a lot of emotions, but you will begin to consider the issue of the order of the day. We have to finish it and only then will our morning session be closed. That's more time for us to argue than we're going to go through with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u194	Report. The number's fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u195	Project Order 2445. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to part five, paragraph 9, of article 126, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, introduces the application for exemption from the posts of judges in connection with the application for resignation: Philipczuk Peter Philipovich, head of the Supreme Court; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Johnishchuk Anatolia Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district of Nikolaov Bronislav Juryivna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 2445 on the release of judges for voting in general. Please vote. [[14:17:36]] For 227 Against – 2, held – 45, did not vote – 83. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u197	Draft Order (2445-3) on the release of judges. Dismissed from the positions of judges: Pinchuk Mikola Grigorovitch judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; Mikhailuka Mikolau Ivanovich of the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region; Ivanenko Vladimir Dmitrovitch of the Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region; Seed of Vasil Stepanovich Marganite City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Region; Nadya Grigorovnoh Longginsh District Court of the city of the Horn of Curve; Bondarenko Galina Yuriovna District Court of Ivano-Frankiv Region; Gudima Valentin Dmitrovich Economic Court of Sumskie District; Baula Lydia Petrovna, Commercial Court of the Hmelnick district. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u198	I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges (No. 2445-3) for the general vote. Please vote. [[14:19:03]] For 227 Against - 1, held - 47, not voted - 76. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 10. Call the number of the decree and report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u199	Number 2445-4 - on the release of judges. Dismissed from the positions of judges: Zharczuk Stepan Vasilovich Court of Appeal; Zinchenko Love Vasilov Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region; Kvacha Mikola Alexandrovich Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region; Andrew's Emma Ivanovna Odessa Farm Court of Appeal; Sarapina Grigory Stepanovich Volodymiro-Volin City Court of Volin County; Kosenku Zinaida Petrovna Amurosiev District Court of the Donetsk Region; Blue People's Ivanovna Valley District Court of Kirovograd County; Homenko Valentina Ivanovna is the Krasnolutsk City Court of Luhansk Region; Cheveru Vasil Demyanović is the Bologna District Court of the Odessa Region; Pavlovski Vitali Kostjanović is the Koratsky District Court of the Plain region; Kovalenka Volodymira Mihajlović is a district court in the region. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u200	I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.2445-4) on the release of judges to vote for the people's deputies in general. Please vote. [[14:20:50]] For 225 Against 2, held – 47, not voted – 74. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] By law. Listen! Why are you so loud? It's written here, the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. I read paragraph 6: "In the event of a failure to obtain a candidate to serve as a judge on an indefinite basis, you see, quietly, the number of votes defined in part four of this article is re-voted." I'll bet on it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention, a moment, to your attention, to the fact that these judges, they're out of office last year. They receive a salary and are unable to do so. So, I think in this situation I'd like to ask you to support me. We need to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u202	I'll bet you a vote. I'm betting on the vote to go back to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2445-4. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[14:22:36]] For 230 We're back. For – 230, against – 48, held – 4, did not vote – 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 189, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 11. I now put to the vote Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2445-4 for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:23:25]] For 228 Against 4, held – 45, not voted – 65. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 11. Please keep reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u203	Draft Order (No.2445-6) on the release of judges. Dismissed from the positions of judges: Wolfenka Vitalia Mikolaiovich, Kyiv's Court of Appeal; Olkhovski Olenna Volodymyrovna, Thelmanov District Court of the Donetsk Region; The Grecian Galina Fedorovna, the Deaf Mystration Court of Suma County; Baltaka Oleg Alexiyovich, the court-martial of the Vinnitsk Region; Saleswoman Valentina Alexandrovich, Economic Court of the Odessa Region. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u204	I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.2445-6) on the release of judges for voting in general. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[14:24:42]] For 229 Against – 1, held – 44, not voted – 59. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional -11. Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u205	Project Regulations No. 2445-7. On the release of Judge Chesnovických Yuri Alexanderovich from the post of Judge Amur-Loweredni, who was tried by the District Court of Dnipropetrovska in connection with the acquisition of legal force, the indictment against him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (2445-7) on the release of judges for the general vote. Please vote. [[14:25:56]] For 229 Against - 1, held - 41, not voted - 59. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 188, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 30, non-fractional - 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u207	Project Order 2445-8 on the release of judges. Dismissed from the positions of judges: Olhu Ivanovna Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; Kota Igor Nestorovich of the Court of Appeal of Lviv Region; Kaszczuk Alla Mikolayovna Zvenigradski District Court of the Cherkas region; Ježov Svetlana Stepanovna Economic Court of the Luhansk Region Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u208	I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 2445-8) on the release of judges for voting in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:27:10]] For 228 Against - 0, held – 41, not voted – 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 11. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u209	Order number 2445-90 on the release of judges. Dismissed from the positions of judges: The daughter of Svetlana Petrovna, the Donetsk Court of Appeal; Zarjek's Sergey Mikolaiovich, High Town District Court of the Kyiv Region; Disadvantage of Mikola Petrovich, Kyiv District Court of Odessa; Kuzewicz Josif Jaroslavovich, Buczak District Court of Ternopil Region; Antonowski Oleg Alexiyovich, Zališticki District Court, Ternopilsky District; Koziryev Galina Mikhailovna, Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv Region; Synonymous Maria Sidorovna, Novovorontsov District Court of the Hersonian Region Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 2445-9) on the release of judges for voting in general. Please vote. [[14:28:38]] For 227 Against - 1, held - 42, not voted - 59. Decision taken. According to factions of the Party of the Regions - 186, "The Fatherland" - 0, Vitalia Klitschka - 0, "Freedom" - 0, the Company - 30, non-fractional - 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u211	With regard to draft decrees 2445-1 and 2445-2, the judges for which the waiver for breach of an oath is filed did not appear at the sitting. According to the practice of the Supreme Council, it is not considered for the first time. I propose that we put aside material on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u212	We're adjourned. Let's take a look. It was considered. Do you have everything? Thank you. Let's congratulate the judges on their election and wish them success. Two factions asked for a recess. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for a moment of attention because what's happening today is a sign for all the factions that have gathered here today to confirm our European views and to vote for the laws that lead us to Europe. What happened after that? After that, you and I went to the polls, but unfortunately, several factions in Parliament decided that we should go back to Europe rather than face it. I wanted to tell you that today Parliament has already decided that we will not return to the committee to deal with the issues of judges. And in spite of any appeal by any deputy, or even committee heads, that judges should be elected on the committee, we're not going to do that. Moreover, our desire to change the Constitution in the part of the appointment of judges and we will remove Parliament from the question of assigning judges so that 450 deputies do not influence what decisions are being made by the court. Then there are allegations that this is not what the court is doing today, so let us not interfere with the work of the judicial authorities, and then we may wish normal work on those judges who are now taking up their duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u214	On the basis of the vote, a minute, Klitschka. On the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u215	Dear National Deputies! Just one minute. I want to explain the situation that just happened. The representatives of all the factions gathered at Mr. Ribak and agreed that there were complaints against certain judges, it was decided that we would announce these complaints and send these judges to the committee for consideration, cross out the names of those courts, we would not vote for them, we would all vote for everyone else. What happened? Arrangements were deliberately broken only to understand that arrangements would be broken, for judges to see who really supported them and to whom they were bound by their assignment. () [[Applause]] I would like to address once again, Vladimir Vasilovich, to you, all the factions that were. These were broken deals – that's the first. This was done deliberately to show whom the judges owe their assignments to. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-04-18-m0.u216	The morning session is closed. At 4:00, we'll continue the session.
