ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:03]] There were 334 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The draft Law (registration Nos. 1032, 1032-1, 1032-2 and 1032-3) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (unification of the post of head of the Kiev City Administration and the Kiev City Council) is being introduced. How will we view it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's vote for the reduced procedure, and you'll be defined. Please vote. [[16:03:25]] For-123 Against 61, held four, not 162. The decision is not taken. Reporters: First reported by Ukrainian national deputy Karpuntsov Valerius Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, invited, present, sneezes, and Ukrainians! The draft Law (Clitcho, Kwalczuk, Karpuntsov) amending the Ukrainian Law "On the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev" (on the unification of the positions of the head of the Kiev City Administration and the Kiev City Council) is being submitted to your consideration. The essence of the law is to the next. Part two of article 10.1 is proposed: “The Kiev City Head is appointed head, the Kiev City State Administration.” And the second point is that this law takes effect from the day of its publication. What is the need for the adoption of the legislation? It is well - known that the positions of the city’s Kiev head and head of the Kiev City Administration have been linked all the time to the specificity of local self - government in Kiev. Unfortunately, however, the whole specificity of the exercise of local self - government in Kiev through the unification of the positions of the head of the Kiev City Council and the head of the Kiev City Administration is two things: (a) or first, to usurp the full rights conferred by the Kiev community, the Kiev City Council and its executive body; or (b) as we have seen in the situation, in recent years, to take these powers of administration at all, to a person whom the Kiev community has not chosen. Sadly, however, the situation has resulted in all the resources being made available to the head of the Kiev City Administration. These powers were artificially divided, and at first the authority of the Kiev City Head was removed from office by removing Leonid Chernewicki from office, in sending him with 30 billion stolen into the Chinese, as said by Alexander Pavlovich Popov, abroad to rest, and later, when his authority ended, the Kiev City Head, took over the full power of the head of the Kiev City Administration for the support of the controlled Kyiv City Council. Controlled, of course, by power and, of course, by the Party of Regions. Why does the council raise questions about the support of the Party of Regions, which has six MPs who have not been voted on by the Chinese, regrettably supports a completely outstretched vertical? And because that team that was brought together by the motivational technology of the Kiev city head of Chernevski completely ceased to exist as a Chernewsky faction, it fell apart on factions that were not voted for by the Chinese. Sadly, however, they go completely to the fairway of the head of the Kiev City Administration. In accordance with the Constitution, it is clear that every council, every local self-government body to which the community is delegated a certain set of rights, a fundamental right to manage the property of the community, must have its own executive body. And so, in principle, there is an executive body in all the locations, and the executive body should lead the corresponding city head. Unfortunately, this is everywhere except Kiev, in Kiev, so specific that the executive body is the Kiev City State Administration. And the whole thing is that the Kiev City Council doesn't have its own executive body. Of course, this draft act, it can only be seen as a transitional now. Because both the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Assembly deserve their executive body, which should be headed by a corresponding city head. But of course, there's no denying that there's an administration at the district level, no more, it's been understood for a long time. And there are quite a lot of scientific opinions based on the fact that administrations don't need at all at the district level or the city as it is today. At the level of the area, please have some control functions just after the execution of the power in which the administrations are located. But in no way can appointed people, and basically now we have such a practice that, unfortunately, these people are taking over, not on a professional basis, but on a territorial basis, i.e. assigned exclusively from a few eastern areas, they are taking over the positions of community leaders and are managing the property of the communities, although once again, the communities have not given them that right. Unfortunately, today we are considering this issue before the elections in Kiev. This is a major topic for China. The Chinese should have their own city head, the Chinese should have the advice to represent the Chinese for whom the Chinese vote, not the council that today does not even legally represent our capital. Accordingly, of course, I hope that the next decision, the next normative act that we're going to take in this room, will be the appointment of the next election in Kiev, the election of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council, because the community cannot live without self-government. And I, the honourable colleagues, wanted to point out once again, already, I'm looking at it, and the authorities are commenting on the Constitutional Court's decision in terms of the fact that this decision does not have any effect on the date of the elections. This is understandable: Fortunately, we have a constitutional distribution of power: the legislative, the executive, the court. And no court can appoint an election over the Supreme Council. And accordingly, the fact that the Constitutional Miracle has thus duplicated the standards that are enshrined in the Constitution, let them be on the conscience of this very Constitutional Court. But once again, no Supreme Council court, not even the Constitutional Council, can decide to hold an election. I urge you to support this initiative of the Strike Party, to appoint the election of the city's head and the Kiev City Council, in order for the community to have its representatives, it's okay, it's fair, it's right. And in this case, for the transitional period that we're going to have, I'm asking for support from the halls of this draft act, a city head will be chosen to manage the executive committee. And I also call on you, my fellow dignitaries, to speed up the work -- and this is what I'm talking to the Head -- of the draft law, of the changes to the law that really applied to the delimitation and authority of the executive body in Kiev, and of the heads of the Kiev City Public Administration. And the Chinese deserve to have their own executive body, and, according to the Constitution, the city head should lead it. We say once again, we don't deny the existence of an administration in Kiev, but it's only with limited powers, powers that, if we compare, are close to the powers of perfection in France, and it can be control over the activities of executive authorities, but it's not control over the activities of local self-government, and it's all the more management of the community's property. I want to warn you, my dear fellows, too. Nevertheless, it is important to address this issue. Because that council they want to force, I mean, the Kiev City Council, to get them to work now, can make decisions that will be unforeseeable. What do I mean? The Council’s activity is related to the provision of both movable and immovable property. You know, there's a lot of borrowing from the city council in Kiev, and they're getting approval. And if all the questions are under legal doubt, what will be the result of the cancellation of these decisions in a year, two or five years from now? What is the effect on a particular cyanide or on the budget of the community in Kiev? We can't predict power or opposition. And to prevent this from happening, I ask you, let's still understand -- and we will vote in favour of the election of the city of Kiev, the election of the city of Kiev and the city council of Kiev. I mean, once again, when you go back specifically to the act by the Ukrainian national deputies Klick, Kwalczuk, Karpuntsov, you are asked to correct the unconstitutional changes that have been made to the Law on the Capital of Ukraine of the City of Kiev, where it is clear that the Kiev City Head is appointed as head of the Kiev City Public Administration. Once again, this is a provision defined in the Constitution that the executive body of the council is the head of the city, and, in accordance with the Capital Act, the specificity is that the executive body is the Kyiv City State Administration, another option than to lead the administration exclusively the Kiev City Head. I ask my honourable colleagues to consider and support this question. And once again, I urge you to take the following act: let us take up the election of the city of Kiev: the city of Kiev; and the city council of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u3	Thank you. Can I ask you a question for the reporter? Is it? Please sign up. The Motherland Union, Blackwolf, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Reporter! Well, you're so interesting and very detailed, you've given a thorough account of the situation in Kiev. As a whole, in support of you, I think you've shed some light on the situation when you weren't. District councils were abolished in Kiev. Don't you think that's one of the mistakes of Kyivrada that would be worth assigning early elections in Kiev when Kyivrada canceled the district councils? Because look what we've got with you right now: we don't have the Kyiv City Council, we don't have the Kyiv city head, and we've eliminated the district councils ourselves, because I think I'm a part of it, too, because I was not too far away. So it seems to me that if we hadn't made the wrong decision now, we would be legitimate councils in Kiev right now. And now there's no representative legitimate council. And so the administration can be completely uncontrollable for the next few years, and this can be an example for all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. It's a very urgent problem. Unfortunately, there are administrations today that have no bearing on local self - government. So they are owned by the community, and they have no relation to the community. But what I want to remind you is that the community alone has to determine whether it needs councils in this city, district councils, in this case, or whether it's by itself the decision-making of the entire community, or its representative body, or the Kyivrad. And so there is a need for the election to be further decided in Kiev in order for a council chosen by the Chinese to decide on behalf of the Chinese, whether or not there is a need for district councils in Kiev. I would like to remind you that these councils were eliminated when Czernovetsk was opposed to the city councils and the city’s head and the Chinese suffered. In this case, it is necessary to appoint an election to select a council, and the council must determine whether district councils are needed or not for the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u6	People's deputy Rosenko, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u8	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u9	Dear colleague, today the European Union with the mouth of Europe. The representative of the European Commission in Kiev expressed his concern about the delay in the elections in Kiev and that this delay in the election of the city head and Kyivrada is a serious obstacle to Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Do you not think that Parliament is delaying to appoint these elections? In fact, he will be responsible for the possible collapse of the summit in Vilnius and the failure with Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Irina for asking. It's quite right. Unfortunately, we all share a collective responsibility as a parliament, as the supreme legislative body, whose exclusive powers are to appoint elections in Kiev and the city council. Unfortunately, that's the right we are. By the way, that Constitutional Court, which was not today, which was still the Constitutional Court, decided on the periodicity of elections. And he said that the Supreme Council does not have the right to appoint an election; it has the responsibility to appoint local elections. And the principle of the succession of power, it's not that you've sat down once -- a hundred years, which is the principle of the periodicity of the elections. And non-execution, non-election by the Supreme Council is a violation of the fundamental constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right, one of those rights, to choose and be elected. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the Constitutional Court says by its decision, and in this case I hope that the Supreme Council will appoint the election of the city's head, the city council, and stop violating the rights of the Chinese, because that's a direct violation, I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Thank you, sit down. National Deputy of Ukraine Pavlovsky Andry Mihajlovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u12	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Respectable squires! A bill is currently under consideration proposing that self-governance be effectively returned to the city of Kiev, with regard to the appointment of the head of the Kiev City Public Administration solely to the person elected by the Kiev City Head. Because what happened when the Regional Party, at the direction of Yanukovitch, actually adopted changes to the Capital Act, anti-constitutional changes, and as a result we have when the executive body of the City Council heads a person who is not elected by the city's head, this is a direct violation of the 141st article of the Constitution, which states that "the territorial community of Kiev has the right to choose on the basis of a common, direct election right by secret vote of the city's head -- attention! - who heads the executive body of the Kiev City Council and presides over its meetings." Now we've got some doine-watching guy who has nothing to do with the city of Kiev, who used to run a 25-thousand town and compare it to 3 million Kiev. The Chinese have the right to choose the same kind of cyanide they are, and we don't need the "lookers" of the Donetsk or the same, or any other kind. The Chinese have the right to finally restore the Magdeburg Law in Kiev, which Kiev has had since 1454. And it turned out that it came to power as a Hungarian barina with its Party of Regions and deprived the Chinese of the Magdeburg Law, which they were hundreds of years old. That's why it's a matter of principle, because it's a violation of the fundamental rights of the Chinese -- to choose their own urban council. And this. The fact that elections are not scheduled in Kiev is a violation of Ukraine's European international treaties because Ukraine has signed the European Charter of Self-Government, where the period for the re-election of local authorities is foreseen. Now, actually, Janukovic's decision. and the selling judges of the Constitutional Court take away the kyans of this right. And I want to say. Even though there, in the Constitutional Court, not the judges, but the frightened beings, they did make a mixed decision, because their decision is about the next election. Okay. How did Chernewsky retire? It's early. That's why we have the right, full right, the Supreme Council, to appoint the city's next election! Here, in this room! And the Constitutional Court has returned this question to the authority of the Supreme Council to appoint out-of- turn elections. Just like the city government, which on June 3rd lost its authority. Because the Constitutional Court, even this one, said that the local authorities were not elected for more than five years! And they've already had a five-year term! That's why we have the right here in the Supreme Council to appoint an extra election. And such a determination from the opposition, to appoint the next election on October 27 of this year and the city’s head of the Kiev and Kiev City Council! It will be in the Constitution and the decision of this Constitutional Court! All you have to do is have will and desire. And the Chinese must force this Supreme Council to do so. And, my friends, I would like to point out that so quietly the Party of Regions has eliminated another tool of very important self-government in Kiev, these are district councils. Well, here's a question to the regionals, why can you have district councils in Donetsk and you can't have them in Kiev?Oh, my God! Is it worse than the others? So anything needs to be restored to a form of self-governance like the district councils in Kiev! Every quarter, each microregion has its own representative. And these functions are better performed by the District Council. And the opposition must do everything to renew the district councils in Kiev! And so, my friends, I urge you to adopt any of the bills that are now proposed by the opposition to reinstate self-government in Kiev. Any and this will be the first step towards the restoration of self-government in Kiev, to respect the same Chinese and to the restoration of the Magdeburg law, which has been stolen by Janukovich in Kyian. So that's the attitude, by the way. Therefore, in the last parliamentary elections, no representative of the government, neither visible nor hidden, has received support from the Party of the Regions. Here, only opposition candidates from Fatherland and Freedom won. And that's why I'm addressing Kiev's major MPs. You're the only legitimate authority in Kiev today. Take this authority, the sneezes are waiting for it! This power is not legitimate. So, my friends, our mission is anything but the election in Kiev on October 27th. And please support the opposition bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u13	The question is to the deputy of Pavlovsky? Please sign in. People's deputy Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u14	Please give the floor to the representative of the city of Kiev, Alexander the Blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u15	Please, Blackhawk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u16	Alexander Blackwolf, Fatherland. Dear reporter, I would like you to elaborate on the situation that has now taken place in Kiev. After we accepted it. We did not decide on the appointment of the early elections on June 2nd, we now have the representative body of Kyivrada, who can't solve any of the economic issues. And after that, any decision he makes about any investment in the development of the urban economy, they're illegal and can be accused sooner or later in court. As you think, this is an unserious attitude towards the capital of Ukraine and the large sector of the general economy, as it can be reflected in the well-being of China, the well-being of all Ukrainians and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Blackwolf, for that. Moreover, it is relevant that you are the deputy elected from the city of Kiev, from the region of Delhi, with great advantage. And I have three public receptions in Kiev, although on the lists. And really at every reception, the cynics raise this question: what happens next, why Kiev is left without legitimate authority. Because, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling, it seems that Kiyevrad's deputies are, and Kyivrad is illegal as an organ of local self-government, because within five years, it's over. Well. You can't continue for another two years with a non-existent authority, because it's both in political science and in the judiciary called usurpation of power, and that's criminal responsibility. Let us not push these deputies of the Kyiv Council of today into criminal activity. That is why local self - government needs to be restored. I say again, whatever you have to do here in this room is to hold an extraordinary election on October 27th and the city's head, and more importantly, the Kiev City Council, because it's really going to be a representative body.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u18	Please, the Freedom Union, the Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u19	Please pass the word to Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u20	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u21	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As a senior deputy elected in Kiev, I would like to address you, Mr. Andryu, knowing you as well as a cyanide, as a man who defends Kiev's interests. And first of all, I'd like to hear your opinion. Do you think that this whole process that has been taking place in Kiev in recent years, namely, the destruction of district councils, the destruction of the city's head office, the 8 billion dollars that have been taken from Kiev's budget illegally, unjustly, the full delegation of the city council, the total destruction of local self-government in Kiev today. Do you not think that these are all chains of a single process that is nothing more than a totally bandit, criminal, fascist occupation of the city of Kiev by the Party of Regions? I want your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u22	Thank you for asking, Mr. Andrey. What is more, in fact, you have defeated a well - known oligarchist in the struggle, not having the money, but having only the trust and support of the Chinese. And that's why the Party of Regions saw that yes, breaking through the knee for money, for Greek, in Kiev did not go through. Therefore, they are afraid to appoint city heads and Kyivrada, afraid to regain self - control that Kiev does not accept. They're strangers here. Kiev doesn't need observers here. And anything, kyans, I call on kyans: listen now only to the majority MPs elected from Kiev. This is your only legitimate authority in Kiev. There is no other authority in Kiev. There is no city head in Kiev, there is no city council in Kiev. And in general, I would advise the majority deputies to form public commissions and choose themselves as city heads and city councilmen without waiting for this authority. This is going to be the real Kiev government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u23	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, sit down. I'm asking the People's Deputy Vejacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, dear colleagues! The issue of Kiev has been in the mouth of the whole country for a year or more. Why? Because there is power, but in fact it is illegal in Kiev. He is the head of the Kyiv City Administration, who has never received a vote of confidence from the Chinese. The Kyiv City Council, which began on June 3, this year, also ceased to be legitimate. There are no district councils that have been dissolved by a decision inspired by the head of the Kiev City Public Administration, but this decision, according to many experts, is unconstitutional. It seems that Kiev will not be able to reach the high standards of the Magdeburg Law that it had since the Middle Ages, because it came to power and a team that adheres to principles, even far from the developed Middle Ages. They need neither self - government nor city council nor district councils, but a couple of pocket deputies who can, in an understandable way, push buttons on the council, loot land, property, and all that remains in Kiev. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to make changes to legislation, which, of course, today, the Party of Regions, together with the Communists, will certainly not miss. Why? Because the changes to the legislation proposed by the opposition are renewing local self - rule in Kiev. I propose to return to the activities of the district councils in Kiev and to reflect this in the amendments to the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. I also propose that, like colleagues who have spoken to me, I clearly write in paragraph 10.1 of the Ukrainian Capital Act that the Kiev City Head, elected by the Chinese, is hereby appointed President of Ukraine as head of the Kyiv City State Administration. Then we can say that the head of administration acts on behalf of the Chinese and in the interests of the Chinese, of course, combining the necessary functions of government. For Kiev has the capital status and features of governance in Kiev, of course. One more moment. The Anti-Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled a few days ago that essentially banned any election in Kiev for the next 2 to 2.5 years. In fact, the Constitutional Court ruled for all Chinese without asking their permission to do so. The judges of the Constitutional Court, not long ago weighing themselves down, said, "You Chinese will be without a city head until October 2015." True, the Constitutional Court did not say about the real motives for such a decision: that there is hope for the current President, for all those near him, that they will win the campaign in 2015, will continue for at least five years. And then, he said, you can also run a campaign in Kiev for the mayor's election. "We're going to have all the power already, so we're going to "turn the hooks," so after our second so-called victory, the cynics will choose the measure that's useful to us," thinks power. And gave a command to the anti-constitutional court to take a decision against the Chinese, against any Kiev interests. Such decisions are unacceptable, by such a decision the Constitutional Court has put itself outside the law. And in the Council, if there's still a need for a number of deputies, not just from the opposition, but perhaps most of the conditional, because today there's no solution. In the Party of Regions, perhaps there are people who are still concerned about self - government, they should vote on the decision that the election of the city’s head and the city council in Kiev should take place. And then we can save the situation in Kiev by allowing the Chinese to make a decision on their own behalf rather than to enforce the decisions of the anticonstitutional court that have been imposed on him in their own interests. One more moment. As if everyone likes it, and there's a head of administration, why do you have any more unnecessary discussions on the boards? But all of this directly affects the economic activity of Kiev. Tell me, if the city's head had been chosen by the Chinese, would he have allowed three years in a row such a gigantic removal from the city's Kiev budget? Eight billion dollars are removed annually from the city budget of Kiev. Where do these billions go? If they go somewhere on people, that's another explanation, but real wages in the country are falling, real pensions are falling, people's purchasing power is falling. And in the kyans that make this money, these bracelets are supposed to be eliminated into the state budget. True, no one can see them after they have been removed. Neither the miscreant in the present warehouse nor the city head of Popov's administration can do anything, and I think they don't want to do anything about it. And these removals, anti-national, anti-Kyivic, from the city budget continue. Tell me, if the city's head had been chosen by the Chinese, would he have sat down and watched this situation? Obviously not. Based on the support of the Chinese, he would do anything to make the money made in Kiev work for the Chinese. What is the course of the current Kiev authorities? And they don't have to go to the appetizers of the government of Azarov, any other way of not paying the allowances to the budgeters, teachers, doctors, or not paying these supplements, increasing the rent rates on all the rents of Kiev -- and the renters of a small enterprise, they still have to increase the cost of land -- and the children of a small enterprise, they still have to look for the truth and lie money to take away from them -- and cover these holes in the Kiev budget, which they created: Janukovich, Azarov in and their chambermaids. So this is Kyiv politics?Oh, my God! Is this politics in the interest of the Chinese?Oh, my God! It is now said that this Popov is being prepared in a low-level election. But now it's being said that only the current authorities in Kiev -- that's not going to happen, of course, but they think this is going to happen -- that's right, if they win -- by increasing municipal payments on average by 25 percent. Why? Because money is spent in the center, and it needs to be filled out of the pockets of simple sneezes. Immediately increased fares, immediately increased wages for all services of a municipal nature. All of this is in store if the present authorities continue their mandate with truths and lies. We can't let that happen. So the only way out now in Kiev, which is now in front of the whole country, if there's even a matter of self-government in the country at all, is to move away from any of the institutions that go up there in parliament, and vote on the decision that the opposition to the election of the city head and the city council in October of this year. Any other manipulation of the elections in Kiev speaks of the illegal and criminal nature of Kiev's power, which wants to continue its presence at the food shop, which works against the interests of the Chinese. The cost of these solutions is enormous. The roads seem to be there, they set up, and traffic jams and motorists, who can't get to the destination, are just growing. So where is the efficient use of money? None. Where is Kyivrad, who controls it? None. Where is this decision of the Kyivrad Constitutional Court in general? None. There will be illegal deputies from the Party of Regions and Remains of the Castle. And in fact, just to keep the MPs for 2.5 years, just to steal everything that's left in Kiev. Our task, as opposition and all the Chinese, is not to allow this aberration in Kiev to continue, to adopt laws that restore self-government in Kiev, any law of four of the opposition, and to seek the appointment of honest democratic elections in Kiev, the election of the city's head and the city council in October of this year. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u25	Please sign up for the question. Please, Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u26	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to the head of Kyiv city organization "Fatherland" Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u27	Please, Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Andrey! Mr. Viacheslav, I wanted to ask you, how do you appreciate the difference in approaches: Julia Timoshenko, who was in prison, immediately appealed to politicians for no action to disengage the country. Even while behind bars, it has the power not to call on the "Donutian" to fight, and it unites Ukraine. Dear Mr. Viacheslav, it does not seem to you that today and the situation in Kiev, when local self-government has been destroyed, when the Chinese cannot choose the city's head, when it is man-made, when the district councils have been destroyed, when 8 billion dollars have been removed from Kiev's budget, is a conscious division of Ukraine, it is the humiliation of the Ukrainians and the capital that is aimed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for asking, it is very important. I agree with you that if the authorities did not care for their pockets, not to remain in power forever, they would be the first to appoint elections in Kiev. Please go with the booty open! But you have all the power, places and mostly illegal, in Kiev, you have a huge budget that you use essentially uncontrollablely, torture what you want, build what you want, and even essentially what you don't need, go to the polls and prove to the voters that everything you've done in Kiev over the last 2.5-3 years, it's like the Chinese and they need it. But no, the government understands that it will get the money from the Chinese, that it will get the harsh rejection, that the opposition and the opposition candidate will win the Kiev elections. And that's why they charge, controlled by them, the Constitutional Court, the officials they control, the sales and corrupt deputies of Kyivrada, all except the opposition, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u30	Please. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u31	Mr. Reporter, please tell me, do you not have a personal moral responsibility for the fact that in 2006, you, Fatherland and Our Ukraine, voted the only candidate in Chernevski, and then you didn't like him -- and in 2008, you destroyed the election system in Kiev and made the next election, and you lost the Chernewsky again? That's the first question. The second question is: Do you feel that two positions should be combined — the heads of the board and the heads of the administration? Is it, I say, a usurpation of power? And the third question is, Mr. Kirilenko, well, why didn't they push one law out of opposition right now, four laws! - Are you going to participate in the election, four parties? Why don't you make it? You want chaos in the state? Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Stoyan, for the meaningful question. But if you think there are doubles in these questions, you are wrong. But you're from the Party of Regions, so you can do the job in your own benches, so that from tomorrow, the deputies of Kyivrada from the Party of Regions and from the Czernovetsk bloc, which is also now the Party of Regions, will conclude their mandates for the deputies of Kyivrada. Then all your moral assurances, they'll have some ground underneath them, and you want two and a half more years there to rob China, land, property, and everything in the world while in the illegal Kiyevrada. And as for Chernevski, everyone in Kiev knows that it was a candidate from the Party of Regions and all the money bags. [[B in m in s a l in]] All Kiev's money bags, and that's all your authority since Kuchma and before Kuchma, that's all those who have made a bet on Leona Cosmos and then fed him and fed on him. And then Janukovic won, and this Lingu retired. And now you're reaping his inheritance. So look at you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u33	Thank you. Have a seat. Please, National Deputy Czervolenko Alexander Vilenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u34	Good afternoon, dear friends. I would like to talk not only about the current issues in Kiev. Sadly, all of this applies throughout Ukraine. Although the city of Kiev illustrates the limitations we have placed on self - government throughout Ukraine. Many of you still can’t remember, others have forgotten, but the history of Ukrainian self - government is very closely intertwined with the history of actual and Kiev self - government, since at the time of the 1991 declaration of independence we have already passed several stages. We succeeded in following the purely Soviet model, when everyone was led by the city committee of the party, the district committee of the party, and in fact the cover was district councils and city councils, to move to enough self-government in 1991, when we combined the positions of heads of councils and performances, including in Kiev. But it was 1991. In 1992, after the declaration of independence, you and I made a huge mistake. More specifically, our predecessors, as the Prime Minister likes to say, made a huge mistake by introducing so-called district and district administrations (and in Kiev this is the city administration) and then they fixed it. In 1996 all of this was strengthened. First in 1995 in the Constitutional Treaty and then in 1996 in the Constitution. In fact, in the form of a presidential administration, a system of district and district committees of the Communist Party was played on the sites. And then people sat there the same, those who used to sit in paradises and miscreants and bimbos, then sat in the presidential administration, first to Kravczuk and then to Kuchma. They were the same people. By the way, they were sitting in the President's administration, and they weren't even resettling from their Tsekov offices, not Kravczuk himself, not his immediate surroundings, not even the smaller co-workers of the president's administrations. This led to the development of Ukrainian self - government. And for the first time, the biggest blow was in 1992 when the system of government administrations and the system of presidents was introduced. And then it was enshrined in the Constitution. So the main task for us to develop normally as a normal democratic country is to eliminate district and district administrations, including the city administration in Kiev. This, of course, has to be done in the Constitution, in another way. But we need to keep this in mind and always yearn for it. And now, whenever possible, we can limit all of these decisions to legislation where we can limit it. Only then will we be able to go back to the conditions in which democratic countries live. I want to tell you again that in no country of the world is there such a disgraceful phenomenon as district, district, and city administration in Kiev. This is not a democratic country. This is the first sign of totalitarianism and must be combated. The other one. What we have to say is clear. We need to make it clear that we cannot have an area in which we do not have advice. Thus, the position of the Local Self - Government Act that the City Council may cancel district councils in cities is absolute absurd. If you want to cancel the district councils, there's only one way, from the point of view of common sense, to cancel the area. There's a district, there's got to be a council. There's no area, there's no council. And to create an area that is managed without the involvement of members of the community. Only without MPs, it's a complete absurdity, it's a complete invasion, once again, of democratic principles, starting with the foundations of the law of Magdeburg. And this is, again, the next step towards totalitarianism, which was taken in the mid-1990s, in 1997, by our predecessors when they passed the Law on Local Self-Government. And here we have to throw this out of the Local Self - Rule Act, which is the possibility of eliminating district councils. Similarly, the Capital Law prohibited this, especially for the capital. What the Party of Regions did in 2010 when it stopped conducting. When they refused to hold local elections in Kiev. On that basis, on the basis of, by the way, the decision of the Constitutional Court. Which says that those who opted for the next election, like those on the next one, were chosen for five years. That is, the mandate was due to end in 2013. This was the 2009 Constitutional Decision. On the basis of this, the city of Kiev did not have the election of city heads and city deputies. But the district councils were elected in 2010. And what does the Party of Regions do? It introduces a bill to repeal in the capital law only one line that the city of Kiev must have district councils, which is a special feature of the capital’s administration. And she did it right away. made it possible not only to hold city council elections but also to hold district council elections. Thus, district councils and community control at the district level were eliminated in Kiev. What is community control at the district level for the city? I want to remind you all that there are district housing authorities in the area, there are district education authorities in the area, there are medical facilities in the area, and now there are medical enterprises in the area. So everything that interests people, it's not in Kiev, it's in Kiev, it's in Kiev, and it's all solved without cyanide. By the way, it's not just without the chinks. They also made a mistake in Lviv in the late 1990s, when district councils were eliminated, in some other cities. And I would like to ask everyone to support Donetsk's very fine experience, where there are still district councils, and this has a positive impact on the development of the city. We have to thank you very much for not being eliminated, but why can there be no council in Donetsk and there are no councils in the capital of Ukraine? Dear friends, I urge you once again, we must return the district councils. Moreover, you and I are to hold an election to the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head on October 27th. We have a chance with you, and this is exactly what my bill proposes to assign these elections to October 27th and to the district councils. If only we had not canceled the circuit councils in Kiev. We'd have something legitimate in the administration of Kiev right now. By the way, I want to tell you that many heads of district administration have been removed. The heads of district administrations in Kiev were removed for miscleaning the snow. This is the case in areas where snow is cleaned, not in the city. And the next time you're going to have some natural disaster in Kiev -- whether it's a flood they can't eliminate, or snowfalls that can't clear up, you know -- it's your fault that the district councils were wiped out in 2010. What's more, district councils, if there are, there are district budgets. If there are no district councils, there are no budgets. And now any citizen of Kiev, speaking to you as MPs, more specifically to us the Mayors of Kiev, to the MPs of the city council, he always says, "There's no playground, no elevators repaired. Everything." This was done from the district budgets before. It's just impossible to do that right now. I want to tell you that last year there were changes to the state budget, which allocated 5 million dollars to the repair of individual apartments, houses, kindergartens from the state budget. It's always been done. And 10 years ago, and 20 and 30 of the district budgets. We've reached complete absurdity. And the next. Many now say that the legitimate city council of Kiev is illegal or illegal. Obviously, her mandate has ended. Obviously, the law speaks of the continuity of the powers to elect the next council. But the Constitution says that the council is elected for five years. Therefore, the legitimacy of the Kyiv Council has fallen, and, indeed, it is urgent that elections be scheduled. But, dear friends, you and I will be illegal. If you and I don't have an extra election, we're not going to do our primary job, because the elections in Ukraine to the local councils are appointed by the Supreme Council. So here's my proposal. If you and I fail to appoint local elections in Kiev as city heads and deputies, let's all put together mandates like the Council, which can't perform its functions as Supreme, and we'll assign it to the next. And let them appoint an extra election in Ukraine. Maybe our successors will work better than we do and be able to provide the basis for democracy -- local self-government. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u35	Question is, I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Odarchenko, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u36	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Alexander Vilenovich, I'd like you to explain to us how a well-known expert on local self-government is the following situation. Now the authorities don't want to appoint the Kyiv City Council elections in Kiev, but they seem to be hesitant and say we're going to appoint a Kiev City Leader. Please explain to all our voters how, even if these elections are held, the city head can be legitimized when he enters the city council, which is now illegal. If even the Constitutional Court, he seemed to claim that the deputies had authority, it is obvious to all that the city council, as an organ, does not have authority. Why, then, make a separate city head when he has the opportunity to even legitimize himself in the city council?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for a very good question. Among other things, the chosen new city head can take his oath, and the city head’s authority can only take place at the Kiyevrada session. If we don't recognize the legitimacy of Kyivrada, then we immediately have a question, and we find it difficult to admit it, because once again, a 5-year term has passed, then it will be very difficult for us to say what the mandate of that head will be. What is more, any decision that this council will make should it ever be declared illegal, but it will enter into force only if it is signed by the city’s head. Then we have questions again and again, and how he's going to sign these decisions, and whether they're legal. And by the way, this is true for both the heads of the city administration and other officials. If it is ever recognized that the decisions of the Kiev City Council taken after June 2 are illegal, these people will make illegal decisions. And this is a crime. This is also a huge question and also a serious question for people and investors who do business. How are they, like, going to be with them? They're going to bribe you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u38	Please, the Ukraine Company, Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u39	May I have your word, Levchenko, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u41	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Company, the city hero of Kiev. The opposition all say that Kyivrada is illegal. Please tell me, how many deputies from the opposition in Kiev have given up their mandates for the time being, as you suggested?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u42	Today's law, which you and I passed in 2010, and you weren't then a deputy, well, in 2010, I voted against it, foresees the possibility of withdrawing parliamentary powers only if the whole council votes for it, and that makes sense. I mean, it's on the board, just like you and me. Now, you and I can put together authority, our statement is not enough -- we need the Council to vote. And in order for there to be no opposition to the council at all, the lists need to be deleted. What does that mean? It's supposed to go through, as the "Fatherland" conference went on Saturday, which eliminated the lists. Now this has been submitted to the local city commission, and the city’s territorial commission has to admit that these lists are now not real. So today, unfortunately, the law in force in 2010, unlike in 2006, says that if we do that, we can only do that two days before the elections, and after the elections, we can't do that anymore. So the question is really, really complicated. Therefore, you and I can only resolve the issue of compliance with the Constitution, a five - year term.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u43	Thank you. Have a seat. Correspondence: Head of the Subcommittee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Eugene Grigorovich Kartashov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u44	Mr. Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to say that on April 3, this year, four laws were discussed at the committee meeting, of which 1032, supported by the budgetary committee in full, supported by the Committee on Legal Policy, the All-Ukrainian Association of Local Self-Government Authorities and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. It was in such, good, peaceful circumstances. And we decided that we should uphold this law. Other laws, 321, 322 and 323, are not supported. And the relevant conclusions of our committees on this issue: the Committee on Budgets, legal policy, regulation and parliamentary ethics, and the work of the Supreme Council. We also point out that Bill 1032-1 is in direct contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the fact that these laws are proposed to be rejected, I would like to complete a certain trailer for the conversation we had with us and for the conclusion of the final one under these laws. Dear colleagues, I mean, as mayor of Zaporozhye, we have also eliminated the relevant councils, and yet I would not have treated the removal of councils as negative. We have six cities today, the big cities of Ukraine, that have been eliminated by councils. We went out, studied this experience when the councils, the Lviv City Council, were eliminated. We've studied this experience in Lviv -- and we've decided to do the same for ourselves. I want to say that there's a big positive, there's a negative, but there's a positive. So I would like to study this experience perfectly right now, which is in our cities today, where these councils don't work, and not talk about what they say is a complete usurpation of power. So I want us to treat in our future work both on the positive side and on the appropriate side of today’s criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u45	I beg you, there is a question. Please sign up. Please, Vitaly Calla, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u46	Vitalia Klitschka, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich. I want to make it clear to you again, do you really think that the destruction of the district councils in Kiev, which are called upon to take the best possible account of the interests of every simple cyanide, to take into account models and possibilities to solve the practical problems of its vitality, the vitality of the entire capital, is really worth eliminating? Are you really, as a member of the Party of Regions, who writes in his cards that the President will hear each of them, ready to raise his hand for the actual destruction of the main instrument -- the council, in what way would you be able to hear a really, really simple cyanide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u47	Answer. Neither I nor anyone else can take responsibility for giving appropriate experience or recommendations to Kiev. I'm talking about what was in Zaporozhye, what was my experience in Zaporozhye when I was a city mayor. Some kyans can solve this question, we're not here with you. And the city council will come together, and they'll say, "Well, that's a good thing if it's a negative," and they'll make the right decision. I think it should be accepted, not by our country's parliament, but by the city council of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u48	Please, Freedom Union, MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u49	Please pass the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u50	Please, Oleg Orotuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u51	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to ask you as a former city head, as a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Today, we are now discussing very important issues of the capital's vitality and generally local self-government. But we've already given up on the committee, so let's say your personal position as a person working in local self-government, is it possible to do so in Ukraine when a 2.5-year territorial election commission, particularly in Ternopol, does not authorize the deputies of the respective local council? In fact, this is a conscious action of three political parties, since it is the Party of the Regions, the Communists, and the parties of Lithuania that have for 2.5 years that ignore the meetings of the territorial election committee and do not perform their duties. Can we, under such conditions, talk about fair local self - government and the protection of local self - government through the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u52	I want to say that I think it's very positive that we've created today a non-fractional merger called "For the Development of Local Self-Government." This should be the subject of our consideration at our next meeting, and there, I think, together we will make the right decision. It will be more faithful, and we will bring it into our Parliament’s consideration today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u53	Thank you, sit down. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. National Deputy Leonov, Freedom Faction
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Oleg Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u55	Oleg Orotyuk is coming, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u56	Today we raise very important questions -- those four bills that are slightly different from each other, but they are very important for the viability of the Ukrainian capital of Kiev. In fact, we see that almost 10 years in Ukraine are being manipulated by legislation, there is a manipulation of common sense, because in 2003, the Constitutional Court confirmed in its decision that the head of the Kiev City State Administration should be appointed as the generally elected Chinese city head. And in fact, from the situation to the situation, the President is manipulating these concepts, and in fact, our task now is to put a stop to these manipulations and ensure compliance with the Constitution, legislation and common sense. Furthermore, our decision will depend on whether the 140th and 141st articles of the Constitution of Ukraine will be implemented in Ukraine, which guarantees local self-government, which clearly determines that local self-government is the right of the territorial community to resolve matters of local importance. And these rights are realized by the territorial community either directly or through the local self-government authorities and the executive bodies it creates. In fact, there is a situation in Kiev where the territorial community does not have the capacity to exercise its constitutional right to manage local affairs because of the influence on the local executive body of the Kiev City State Administration. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union in its Ukrainian defence programme clearly anticipates and determines that we stand for real people. And in order to provide real government in Kiev, we need to do a few things that are provided for in those bills that we are currently considering. First of all, we should really be talking about restoring the activities of the district councils in Kiev. Only in this way will we ensure the right of the territorial Chinese community to manage local affairs. Second, we need to talk about the city’s head being headed by an executive body in Kiev. And in fact, those bills that have been introduced allow this right of the territorial community to be implemented. And thirdly, in order to ensure all the constitutional rights of citizens, we really need to talk about the appointment of the Kiev elections: the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. And only in this way, by implementing these bills, by finally reaching consensus and by appointing elections, will we allow the Chinese to be just as equal citizens of the Ukrainian State and to exercise the same rights as citizens of other villages, villages and cities, because now, in fact, the Chinese have the right to influence local self-government both directly and through the influence of the local executive body. But in addition, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that such steps are all equal to half-steps, because real self-government will be when district and district administrations are eliminated, when district and district councils are allowed legislatively, predictably to create executive bodies and will then be the direct responsibility of the local deputies and those executive authorities they create. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u57	Please, Chumak, Vitaly Klicka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u58	Please pass on the word of Natalia Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u59	Please, Natalia Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u60	Dear Head, honourable deputies, the fact is that the presence of the Party of Regions in power is a period of systematic destruction of local self-government and, as an example, is the capital of the Ukraine of Kiev. It all began with Kyiv’s first loss of 50 percent of the income from the income tax of natural persons. Second, Kyiv was taken directly into the city’s head by the authority and authority of the executive body of the Kyiv City Council. This means that, in fact, the mandate of the executive body of the Kiev City Council has been exercised solely by the President's Administration, which is fully open to the President himself. Third, last. That's actually the last step is the China left the election of both the Kiev city head and the Kiev city council. Today, we are considering the law that the city chief should exercise the authority of the head of the Kiev City Administration as the executive body of the Kiev City Council. And that's going to be okay, because any head he goes to the election, he goes with his program. But as head of the executive body of the Kiev City Council, namely, the administration, he has no importance in carrying out his election program. So it's very important that any local self-government, any local representative self-governance body has its own executive body, this right guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, is a right guaranteed by the Law on Local Self-Government. What should be said is that the last decision of the Constitutional Court and some constitutional experts, referring to the Constitutional Court’s decision, said that it seemed to have allowed the city council and the city’s head to continue their mandate. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing like it in the resolution part of the Constitutional Court. It makes it clear that it's just another election after the next or the next election. How many out-of-the-box elections can there be? There's nothing to say. There could be two of them, three of them as long as it takes. We know that the election of the city's head and head. and the Kyiv City Council were held in accordance with the 2006 Constitution, which clearly stated that the mandate of the city's head was four years, the authorization of the city council was five years. The law has no reverse power. So according to the Constitution, which. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u61	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u62	Therefore, according to the Constitution. The Constitution, by which the Council was elected, the Council's powers have been exhausted, and it is not possible to impose those powers that have expired. So today, the circuits in Kiev are the councils. The Constitution stipulates that it is only a decision. Only the local council decides to form or not to form circuits in Kiev and any city council. So if we're making a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u63	All of it. Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u65	National MP Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! All of our colleagues' bills are correct from a tactical point of view, although we must say that we strategically do not return local self-government with these bills. We are actually returning Kiev to the times of Kuchma, Omelchenka and even worse times of Yanukovich, Chernevski, Popov. Because the idea of local self - government and our commitment to European structures and our commitment to the territorial community requires the following model of governance. We choose the Chiyans, the Kyiv Council. The Kyiv Council forms a performance (if you want, we can call it "the government of Kiev"), which exercises all powers in the part of the administration of Kiev. Where in this coordinate system is the President's seat? The president is merely monitoring compliance with Ukraine’s laws in the city of Kiev and is concerned about the issue of capital functions. The President's formal representation in Kiev would have to do the utmost to organize diplomatic and consular representations, the system of communication. But in no way can they do the economy of Kiev, because the Chinese have to identify the people who do it. Where do you want to go today, the occupying model of power, because the head of the district administration, like the Mongol Tatar label, has been given, received and gone to the area, picked up a map and introduced to the areas of the area. Just like a representative from the President, to someone who doesn't understand what Kiev is, he gets control. So, my friends, tactfully, we can, of course, resolve the issue of job balance. But strategically, we do not return self - government to Kiev. Today, the heads of the administrations, and it's quite clear that this board of directors should be, at all, on the district level, there should be no president. Because it's absurd that there's a president at the district level. What are the administrations doing today? The MAFIs share! They take off parts of the MAF during the day, and at night they restore the MAFs that shelter the children of prosecutors or militias. This is all the work of district administrations. That's why I'm saying it again. Our position as opposition is to restore local self-government, not to choose a city's head, which will have a lot of authority. And another line. There are many colleagues, I would say, such friends, eternal friends of authority. They trampled the road back to Yanukovich and say that the principle of Kyivrad could not be overturned. You give us consent in the summer to choose the mayor, and we'll deal with both the devil and Satan and the Chernewsky. I want to say it again. If we go to the city head without Kyivrada, it will be the betrayal of Kiev and the betrayal of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u67	Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the heart is broken when you look after the city of Kiev! And what kind of fever did you have on December 27th that all of you suddenly ran ahead of each other to register a corresponding bill?Oh, my God! And please tell me, as inexperienced as possible in the sense of parliamentary tradition in 12 years, if you are a united opposition, if you are talking about a single position now, how will you, our poor, vote for the four bills you have come up with to submit from your political powers? Where is your unity? And you know, in small things, we know the big ones. Clearly, you are not interested in Kiev either. [[B in m in s a l in]] Or those people who are now hoping that you'll achieve something. For those of you who are already preparing bags and who seem to be carrying them to you. Why? Because you want more than anyone to have no election, so you don't have to fight the course. You didn't even think to take three bills and make one consistent. Dearly beloved, let us speak openly and truthfully to the people. You're not interested in Kiev and everything that's going on around it. You need a playground. You've seen that even in cities where you seem to have priority, when a decent person rises up, and that's proved, by the way, yesterday's elections in the Kyiv region, even in the Kyiv region, you lose. Despite what seems to be an electoral advantage in this region. What does that mean? That your political forces today have conditional support and that a person who offers a real program can actually win, regardless of what political power he represents today. Mr. Abdullin, explain this to your faction. This gesture. So, my dears, don't fool yourself or the people and learn this lesson that you've had in preparing for the election to merge positions, to prepare a law on the merger of posts. Because when we hear about your only candidate for presidents, we're already crying today. Learn, think, and don't make fun of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u69	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I immediately warn you that the faction of the Company will not vote in favour of these bills, based on its fundamental positions that we stand and stand for throughout all the years of Ukraine's independence. What does the faction of the Company offer? The Company's faction first consecutively runs a line to cancel administrations. And that's what we suggested when we were drafting the Constitution, when we were making appropriate changes to the laws, including local self-government. We are convinced that the territorial community chooses the council, the council appoints the performance and chooses the head of the executive. And this ensures the unity of government and accountability to the territorial community alone. This ensures full control over the financial and the programmes that are being implemented. And it's clear that there is a strategy and a perspective for development in this system of choice of power, both in Kiev and elsewhere. Today, of course, it is vital to ask questions of principle and rigidity about the responsibility for policy making in the city of Kiev. I will no longer be reminded here of who, from which political forces came out the Chernobyl and the young team, who had drawn so many years from Ukraine and Kiev's last juices. I'd like to remind the honorable Chinese of one thing. There's a lot of talk about elections. But look, there's a lot to talk about and what they did to Kiev. There were more than half a million jobs in Kiev, now less than a hundred thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, and as we can explain today, there is no Arsenal, no Bolshoic, no Radar, practically gone, Lenkuszna, Toleelectrica, Mayak, Darnicki silk combination, Hymvolocno. What, then, is the authority of us who destroys the more powerful economic potential of the capital of Ukraine?Oh, my God! The scientific and cultural potential of Ukraine is virtually destroyed. Where are these 20 - year - old singers who seem to care about Ukraine? I'd like to make it clear today that most of the academic institutions, when they do their jobs, are barely making ends meet today because they rent their own premises. Children’s preschools have been extended. In the microregions, children’s sports playgrounds and so forth were virtually destroyed. Science and culture are collapsing. I would like to remind you once again, Your Honor, that the content of power is defined, including the name. When the people were on a paradise or a paradise in Soviet times, they decided on the matter. When he goes to the administration today, he finds something quite different there. [[Applause]] So I would like to say that when we talk about the difference in power, we need to change the political system today and change the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u71	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u72	Only then will the Chinese and the people of Ukraine have authority when the authorities belong to the working people, not the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u73	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Party of regions, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u74	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Please give the floor to the People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u75	Please, the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, we are now seeing the opposition trying to turn the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a rally. The vast majority of opposition spoke of anything other than the Law on the Unification of Mayor Kiev and the Head of Administration. We have to go back to understanding the structure and the system of power in any capital today. We need to understand that everywhere in the world there is local self-government, in the capital, and there are functions of the capital, which are government functions. It's different money, it's a different system of power and a different system of administration. So if you want to do it again, in the capital of Kiev, to make a non-democratic local self-government, and a new queen, this trend is wrong, and we won't let you do it. Because the queens have already been fertilized everywhere! And we want to remind you that the local self - government in Kiev has benefited from benefits that no unit of local self - government in Ukraine had. And because the capital's government functions were financed as functions of local self-government, that's not right. That's why we have to make sure that we have to change the electoral legislation, that we certainly have to decentralize power in Ukraine. But to that end, there is no attempt to create a new queen in Kiev who will manage land and money, as the orange team did. Have you agreed to this nonsense that Chernewsky is our protégé?Oh, my God! I want to remind you who here has raised the Supreme Council to hold illegal, new elections in Chernevski. And what did you do with the kyans, you oranges, that they chose Chernewsky and the team for the second time?Oh, my God! It's on your conscience! And robbing the land of the people closest to the orange chiefs is on your conscience! We will not let the Ukrainian capital make a playground for the birth of new queens again. That is why we will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u77	Thank you. The national deputy of Labunsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u79	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, for the sake of justice, let's still, you know, love, God, the truth. When I hear here that the regions gave birth to Chernevski, it's not like that. With a brief historical memory, I will remind you that President Yushchenko was carrying him as a fool with a bag. There's a former head of President Yushchenk's Administration, and he'll confirm that, let Czernovetsk tell us how many suitcases he took to the Yushchenka Administration. Let's think about the channels that Chernewsky had, who protested against our candidate Turkinov at the time? A better candidate of all times and nations who, unfortunately, did not win the election or, perhaps, luckily, might have been amazed. But for the sake of objectivity, in 2010, the Montenegrin League under the "Regions," because Chernewsky stretched thousands of acres of land, tore apart all property. Where's Chernewsky now? Either in Israel or in Georgia. I'm asking, why is the Attorney General silent? Why is he not called to account for crimes? Because I did. He was carrying suitcases to Yushchenk, and now he's carrying suitcases to the regionals. So Montenegro is your product in common: both Yushchenka and today's authorities. Now, the question is essentially. Should State Administrations Be Eliminated? One hundred percent is needed, not just in Kiev, but all over the country, government administrations have to be eliminated. We have 300,000 officials in Ukraine today, 16 billion dollars to maintain the government apparatus in the 2013 budget! We tell you that we don't have the funds in the budget for doctors, for teachers, for kindergartens, for schools, we shut down massively, and for the purpose of keeping two-headed hydras in each resort, there's a small rally center in my district, there's 13,000 electorate, there's the Talalyev head of the administration, the council, and five rooms where there's no one to help anyone, but they get salaries, pensions, cars, and so on. So district administrations have to be eliminated. This will reduce the cost of maintenance of office equipment, allowing the cost to be allocated to creating jobs for young people, to acquiring housing for young people, to social programs. Next: regarding the elections in Kiev. This is the Constitutional Court, the fairest court in the world, which has decided that elections should be held in 2015. So let Kiev continue to lose its head with the corrupt Kyiv city council on the last. About a week ago, she tore 200 hectares of land apart. And we've got a lot of wireless in Kiev. Here I was yesterday at Balzak, 54, Trinity. The children’s playground is being built, and the clinic number 2 in the Desnian district is being closed today. That is, there is no chief chosen by the people, but Kyiv remains without a master. Shame on the Party of Regions!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u81	Faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u82	Olga Levchenko, Ukrainian Company, the city hero of Kiev. Deputies! Respectable squires! I'd like to draw your attention to the manipulation and political pianist who declares today to the House of Opposition, telling tales how beautiful they will be if there is one person in power in the capital of Ukraine. These fighters for the improvement of life in our hometown, which is precisely the usurpation of power by the orangeist Leonid Chernewsky and the derby Kiev's "young team" led to the division of mayor and head of the local government. To this day, they feel the effects of such authority. Therefore, it is not necessary to look for sorbets in a stranger’s eye but not to see a log in yours. The unification of posts is the usurpation of power, and anyone is elected to this office. That is why we are against such a union. With regard to district councils, we support this proposal. And who considers the creation and maintenance of district councils to be wasteful, is opposed to democracy and self-government. Areas in Kiev have as many inhabitants as the average district center. The management of such a large megapolis, without dividing power between the city and the district, is damaging to our capital. The Miskrad has taken over many of its meager functions, which need to be addressed in an urgent manner in areas. We were not chosen by an active Kiyevrada; we voted in favour of the elections in Kyyivrad. To a lesser extent, it is not because this council itself in 2010 cancelled the district councils — the last island of self - government — that is, this city council passed a decision on medical reform in Kiev, which cancels and reduces the health of the Chinese. So in a set, that's not the way to vote on such bills. And the Company will not support any bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u83	Ukrainian Company, National Vice-Place of Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u84	The jury, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will not support any of these bills. And I'll explain why. The problem is that for the past 20 years, various authorities, oligarchic, nationalist, targeted measures to destroy local self-government have been in place in the country, particularly our rural settlements. Why? Because during the years of independence, all of them were destroyed in the country, namely, colossals, which gave real authority to local councils and local executives. And today, these problems are obvious, as in Ternopolski, both in Lviv and in the city of Kiev. With regard to the situation in the city of Kiev, this is a clear expression of the oligarchs and nationalists who simply set up a Sabbath in Kiev. And really, who brought in that whole crew of Chernovskys they're talking about today? Kiev is obviously orange. The Party of the Regions has simply appointed a manager today who is unable to solve any of the acute problems that are now in Kiev. All of us remember perfectly how this power could not be managed in an elementary way even with the same snow. Today in Kiev, another achievement is that when a million dollars were spent simply on transportation of red chestnuts, it turns out that these are not the chestnuts that were planted at all. Here is the result of the work of all 20 years and the oligarchs and nationalists who are in power today. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for what the nationalists are shouting today, "Ukrainian!" and show an example of good, effective, coordinated work in three areas of Ukraine, namely Ivano-Frankovsky, Ternopolski, Lvivska, where the fullness of local authority is concentrated in your hands today. Soon, only tables will remain from most of Ukraine's settlements. Who will speak Ukrainian then? [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I would like to point out the position of the Communist faction: under the Soviet authorities the city of Kiev, the city of Kiev, has indeed evolved, it was the industrial, cultural and scientific centre of our country. With your authority, he will soon be left with one tablet. Therefore, the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine is only for the fullness of power on all councils to belong to the deputies of local councils, not to administrations and their constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u85	National MP Bondarenko, please. Please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u86	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition, Fatherland. Dear friends, sneezes, listeners, and viewers! I think every normal person understands that the effectiveness of power depends on how it's designed, how it's built, what the limits of its competence, who controls it, who it reports to. Of course, self-government in this respect is a unique phenomenon of social life, because self-government is built on what people choose, they control it, they change it over a period of time, and it's a normal phenomenon for the entire democratic world. Kiev today has been deprived of such good, and you and I need to correct our common mistakes in this regard. I think Kiev needs a mayor, I think Kiev needs a council, I think Kiev needs a city council executive committee, district councils and executive committees, but Kiev needs a state administration, because Kiev is the capital of Ukraine, and it is the capital city of Sevastopol, as well as the military city of Sevastopol, is in special status. The city of Sevastopol has a military base and Kiev is the capital. So, of course, there should be a state administration here, not just the Kyiv City State Administration, but the government administration in Kiev, that would be right. It should coordinate the activities of internal affairs bodies that centrally penetrate the country – the Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, some other services, including military commissions, tax services and so on, is the jurisdiction of the state in Kiev. But Kyiv must have his full self - control. I used to run one of Kiev's largest areas, 340,000 people, but at the time there was an executive committee, and it was only in that area, in one, now Svetoszynski, that there were eleven repair and construction services that were subordinated to the council, then people got help on the first day if they had a problem. Today in Kiev, the structure of power is completely worthless and worthless, no local authority allows people to communicate with them, turn to them, and get help. Today, at the entrance of every district government office, there are castles coded in the city, and there are police outfits. So when someone was filming the door in Kievrada, not because they wanted to play with the door, but because citizens, the Chinese, couldn't or could not get into their power, ask them questions and so forth. It's today's tough reality. So given that our colleagues have passed specific bills, in my opinion, and there's my bill, which looks a little bit different, I'm going to insist on behalf of the Kiev majors, and we're sitting here in a twelve-man room on a completely different approach. Because I can see that today it's being dissipated on one side, it's not going to be accepted. We need to have self-government in Kiev and the city government, not the city government, but the state administration in Kiev, which will ensure the state's functions, will be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u87	Thank you. The final word of the rapporteurs is asked. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shall we vote? May I have the closing word, Deputy Karpuntsov Valeriy Vitaliyovich. Please. Did you turn on Karpuntsov's microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u88	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support the bill. And more than that, I ask you all to support the initiative that has been here for a long time and to appoint the elections of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u89	Please, Pavlovsky's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u90	Respectable compatriots! Dear ones, above all, who listen to us! Fellow MPs! Well, once again, do something to restore self-government in both Ukraine and Kiev, where you are, you have your offices, your businesses. Most of you, the Party of the Regions. Do something for Kiev! Take a step toward the restoration of self - government in Kiev, which had this self - rule since 1454, when he was granted the right of Magdeburg. But there must be a party of regions and Janukovich. In Kiev, self - government was destroyed, no district councils, no city councils, no city heads. So ask your sins in front of the Chinese to treat you with respect and authority. I propose to adopt one of the bills, any bill you can adopt, which was proposed here by the four authors from the opposition, and this will be the first, small, but first step towards the restoration of self-government and Magdeburg law in Kiev. That is why we should also appoint, necessarily, elections, out of turn, because the Constitutional Court allowed the election in Kiev to be held on October 27, at the turn of the elections and the city’s head, because the Czernovetsk went on a standoff on the day of the end of their terms of office. He did it on purpose to be able to appoint out-of-court elections whenever the Party of the Regions. He played the Party of the Regions. Therefore, the Party of Regions, appoint the election of both the city’s head and the Kiev City Council on October 27, because the term of office and the city’s head is over a year ago, and the Kiev City Council is over. There is no more legitimate authority in Kiev. In fact, Kiev has only legitimate national MPs who have been elected majority of Kiev. And this is the only legitimate authority, these people's deputies of Kiev. And that is why the Chinese will obey and direct these people’s deputies from the city of Kiev. And I call upon the people’s deputies of the city of Kiev, do not listen to this authority, do not wait for it. Make public election committees and, in fact, choose a city council and city heads if this authority refuses to appoint an election on October 27! And this is going to be the real city power. It's us who are going to delegate this city's power to the Chinese. That's why power is to the Chinese! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u91	Please, Kirilenko Viacheslave Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u92	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters! Dear colleagues! First. Of course, we must take care not only of self - government in Kiev but of self - government in Ukraine in general. Kiev is the capital, in Kiev, the president, the government, the parliament, everything, everything, wants to go to the capital. That's why they're talking about him. But look at our self - control throughout the country. We have far more than half of the territorial communities, rural, rural, urban, these are subsidies communities. People don't have a budget for any good work. And it usually comes to pay and it usually comes to transfer. There is usually no development budget in Ukrainian local self-government. And this is a matter that should be decided by the MPs, regardless of factional, political or party affiliation. The other one. I believe that there should be a state administration in Kiev, because Kiev is a capitalist. In Kiev, all Ukrainian affairs are united; in Kiev, the most important national decisions are taken. Kiev was originally the Ukrainian capital. Ever since the time of the Kyiv Russia, Cossacks, the U.N.R., and beyond. That's why there's got to be government power here, but the government authority and the city head chosen by the Chinese must be united, so that no president, if he doesn't like the action chosen by the city's Chinese heads, and that's usually the case, can't take it off for his dictatorial conundrums. This is a question of Parliament and the Kyiv city community. So to provide for legislation to be chosen by the mayor of China, and he was not until the completion of the mandate, and no one in this matter should intervene. Third. All the deputies of Kyivrada, if they are thinking about Kiyev, not their buttocks and chairs on which they are sitting, should place a mandate to protest against the anti-constitutional decision of the so-called Constitutional Court of Ukraine. All deputies from power, if not in words, but in action for self-governance, both the Kiev and the opposition. The opposition is ready for this. Four. We have to vote on the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head, not on the basis that the Chinese will not be home and were appointed for August, but on October 27, this year, the opposition introduced such a bill. If you are not mistaken, the Party of Regions, and indeed for self-government, vote on this date, and thus you will show that you are not afraid of elections. And the last. As the drafter of the bill, I urge all MPs to vote in favour of all the bills that have now been tabled by the opposition. You're voting for Udriwski, that's what's gonna happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u93	Please, People's Deputy Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u94	Dear friends, in the course of this discussion, we have heard many different myths. One of them struck me as if we were supporting Chernewsky. I want to tell you, the official position of the faction was both the "Our Ukraine" union, and the "Julia Timoshenko Block" in 2006 was the support of Alexander Omelchenk in the position of the city's head. And we put out candidates for each of our own. And there was our Ukraine block, and the BUT block, the Block of Timoshenko in Kievrad. The other one. I'd like that for you. And in 2008, Chernewicki was on his own, and we all voted both "Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine" and all those who went in there, political parties, for the appointment of the next term's election, that is, for the taking of the Chernewsky. So this is our position. The Communists backed us up at the time, and we interrupted the opposition of the Party of the Regions. The other one. Dear friends, once again I would like to emphasize. Ukraine doesn't need administration in Kiev or Sevastopol. Once again, the administration is a sign of a totalitarian country. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. Take such a troubled country as Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is divided into three parts, there is no presidential administration in Sarajevo. Take Belgium, where there are a lot of problems between the Flemish and the Wallons and Brussels County. But it's self-reliant this district of Brussels as a separate country. There's no royal administration. It's completely absurd, it's not even the Middle Ages. This is some kind of satrapia of the Persian Empire. Have district and state and city administrations. I'm asking everyone, first of all, to give up supporting the old corporate hook that Ukraine was caught on at the beginning of its development, and that's what's really slowed down both economic and political development. Finally, all these four bills are different. This, Mr. Shufrich, is not a single bill, but a joint committee of self - government and state - building. It's his fault. They could be considered separately. My bill for the unification of power at the level means that the positions of council and administration have no bearing. I have such a mild chance of restoring the district councils by referendum or by decision of the Kyiv City Council. There's a more rigid -- an absolute offer to reinstate the council. I support him. Just like I support all the other bills. Dear friends, vote for all four bills in the second reading we will see, but in any case it is better than the mess that is now in Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-04-m1.u95	I ask you to prepare for the vote. I will consistently put all the bills to the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Law (1032) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (as regards the unification of the post of head of the Kiev City Administration and the Kiev City Council) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:49:41]] For 168 Against-7, held-32, didn't vote 193. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I'm voting on the draft Law (1032-1) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (unification of the post of head of the Kiev City Administration and the Kiev City Council) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:49:41]] For-167 Against-10, held-40, didn't vote-185. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'm betting on a draft bill (number 1031-2) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine: the City of Kiev (unification of the post of head of the Kiev City Administration and the Kiev City Council) for adoption as a basis. [[17:50:28]] For 168 Against 7, held – 39, not voted – 187. The decision is not taken. The factions. I am voting on the last draft of the Act (number 1032-3), amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (for the Order of the Establishment of District Councils). To be accepted as a basis. Please cancel the vote. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the draft Act (number 1032-3), amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (for the Order of the Establishment of District Councils) for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:52:29]] For-164 Against 6, held 34, did not vote 194. The decision is not taken. The factions. We have now considered one law and there is time, and 15 minutes can continue. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
