ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Let's get to work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:44]] There were 390 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear National Deputies! On March 1-2, 1943, in the city of Koryukowka in the district of Chernigiv, German - Fascist invaders destroyed about 7,000 civilians at the same time. This terrible tragedy is the most massive destruction of the local civilian population in occupied areas during the entire period of World War II. In connection with the 70th anniversary of the Korean tragedy, I ask you to honor the memory of the victims of the tragedy by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Honorary People's Deputies, on March 18, 2013, the Central Election Commission registered, instead of the National Deputies of Bereavsky Andrija Mikolajovic and Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, whose mandate was suspended on time, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandra Andryovic, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-mandom constituency constituency included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Stadniczuk Roman Vasilovich, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-national constituency constituency, which is included in the election list of the political party of the All-Ukraine Association of Fathers. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozub Andriyovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u3	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stadniychuk Roman Vasilovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Let us welcome the people’s deputies and wish them success for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] And an announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozuba Andriyovich, as part of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call. Announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stadniyczuk Roman Vasilovich, as part of the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers in the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputies: the Cubans Stepan Ivanovich, Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, and Artem Viktorovich’s Psongka. [[Applause]] Let us congratulate them on their birthdays and wish them good health, success, and all good things! We'll give it all to everyone. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" of articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with my personal statement, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mirno Ivan Mikolaiovich, has entered the Party of the Regions. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For domestic industrialists and entrepreneurs, employers of Ukraine". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Hirschfeld Anatolia Musiyovic, was elected Head of the National Association for National Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Employers of Ukraine. Announcement. Patience, the announcements were written by many deputies. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of an interfractional MP association, Mikolayevščina, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the union was the national deputy, Heržov Jurija Ivanovich. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, Prim. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association, the South of Ukraine, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Opanaschenka Mikhail Volodymirovich, was elected leader of the union. Announcement. In accordance with an article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report on the creation of an inter-fractional new sumsmunition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Mikhailovich, was elected leader of the United Nations. Pursuant to article 60, Prim. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Dnipropetrovština Inter-Factional Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zadrožno Vjacheslav Kazimirovich, has been elected as leader of the union. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, Prim. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Volin Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the interfractional MPs were the national deputies of Ukraine, Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich and Vitov Anatoly Mikolaiovich. Pursuant to article 60, Prim. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union of Ukraine-Virmenia in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shavodyan Vilena Grigorovitch, has been elected as leader of the union. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the Interfractional Union for Ukrainian Language. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Donja Alexandra Sergiyyovich, was elected Head of the MP. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union of the Bukovina in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, was elected leader of the union. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the seventh interfractional parliamentary association "Children of Ukraine's state-of-the-art OHMADIT Hospital" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dubil Valerija Alexandrovich, was elected head of the MP. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions of February 18th, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine Pshonka Artem Viktorovich has been elected Vice-President of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Union for International Consent and Civil Peace in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the interfractional MPs were elected by the Ukrainian national deputies, Koleschenka Vadim Vasilovich, Haydosh Istwan. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's whistling? Come on, for three days, by the door, let him whistle! I am asking you to do so! — 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Geidosh Istwana Ferencović, Popescu Ivan Vasilovich, Kisse Anton Ivanovich and Presman Aleksandra Semenović. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the Interfractional Union of the Zaporezian Region. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Boguslayev Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch, was elected leader of the union. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Deputy Union for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Borisovich, was elected leader of the union. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "The Initiative Group for the Promotion of Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of France". An interfractional MP was elected as leader of Ukraine’s national deputy, Azarov Aleksija Mikolaiovich. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Kyivščina". The national deputy of Ukraine, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich, was elected head of the interfractional association “Kyivščina”. And according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of December 18th, "On the Order of Enrollment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" on March 6, this year, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information approved plans for the participation of representatives of the deputy factions and non-fractional national deputies in weekly thematic television broadcasts "Parliament" on the "Rada" channel and in weekly weekly thematic broadcasts of the National Radio Company. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to participate actively in the broadcasts and broadcasts recorded according to approved schedules. Announcements, announcements, everyone. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the authorized representatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] None. We have to ask, faction leaders have not made such a decision and the Supreme Council has not. We talked, but one point, you remember what you accepted. That's why I'm going to read to you what's in the Rules, which is in the Rules. The 9 o'clock health department of the 19th Medical Center of the 7th Calling of No Deputies, Thank God, is gone. There are no MPs on vacation either. National deputies of Ukraine who are on board: Sobolev (the Order), Ariev, Heratchenko, Melniczuk (the Order is), Levocchina, Ryabikin, Kurpil, Pankevitch, the Apostle. I don't have any other data. Well, it's a good thing you are. You wrote that from March 17 to 20 you would be in Warsaw. That's why the order is, I read the order. Let's put it this way: there'll be factions now, and after the performances, I'll give all the factions a minute. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. On Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please sign up. Recorded: Kowalczuk, Hermann, Leonov, Simonenko, Shulga. Please, from the Vitaly Call faction, who will be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u6	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u7	Please, Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Parliament is working again. For as long as his work lasts, it depends primarily on the factions that have been conquered. We will exercise strict control over personal voting. Parliament must become a state-owned body. He'll only work by law. And we're not going to give anyone a break. This week, we need to make some important decisions. The question of the election in Kiev is in the order of the day. We suggest we look at it first. [[Applause]] After the election vote, we have to adopt laws that will cover the basic forgeries and bring Kiev back eventually to self-government. First. This is to amend the law on local elections to stop the basic counterfeiting mechanisms. The other one. The election should take two rounds to get the mayor of Kiev to choose most of the kyans. Third. We need to unify the city heads and heads of the government to get back to Kiev eventually self-government. [[Applause]] We suggest that on Wednesday the committee should consider these bills, then by the end of the week they can be adopted on the first reading, and by April 2, they can be accepted as a whole. On Friday we await the report of the government of Azar. I think all the factions have something to ask our "improvisers." Last week, I was in the United States and countries of the European Union. Our colleagues share our concerns about what is happening in the country today. The government has no right to question the European choice made by Ukrainian society. The adoption of the laws necessary for European integration is very important. It is also important when working on them on committees to prove their content according to their proper names. But what is even more important is not to allow democracy to be constricted further, because European integration is not affected by the absence of laws, but by corruption, selective justice and lawlessness. Europe shows that it will fight hard against corruption rings and offshors. And the latest events in Cyprus also show that. Business accounts, real estate, visas for those who build dictatorship in Ukraine will become an object of urgent attention in Europe. And finally. The President of Ukraine does not have the right to declare a message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sadly, the president ignores this responsibility. This year he must carry it out, not hide behind the backs of his spokesmen. What is more, Janukovic should not simply read the text but answer the questions that concern society today. Along with other opposition forces, a number of anti-corruption bills are required to be included in the agenda and the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Region Party, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich Behind him is the Freedom Union, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u11	I very much hope that everyone in this room is fully aware of the complexity of the economic situation not only in our country but also in the world. Where this situation is exacerbated by political instability, entire countries are plunged into total misunderstanding and peoples into poverty. The events of recent years have taught us that any society is easily disintegrated and hard to consolidate. And the only way we can be in a world where we want to live, and I'm sure no one in the room wants our country and its people bad, except maybe screaming neo-fascists, is to learn to agree. Think about it, respectable colleagues. The elections have ended. Today, this room cannot be allowed to become a fraternal grave of democracy. People expect us not to fight without rules, not to block the rostrum, but to adopt laws that ensure a higher standard of living, economic growth, financial stability, support for a national producer, energy independence. What is needed for this? First of all, a clear programme of socio-economic development of the State supported by major political players and most of society. [[B in m in s a l in]] Such a document was adopted by the Government. Its implementation will lead to a tangible improvement in the quality of life in Ukraine. It is very important that the programme focuses on the individual and his interests that are being realized through economic development. But without addressing the problems that have accumulated over the years, it is difficult to find opportunities to carry out the tasks set. And that's already our responsibility. To hold a professional, reasoned and highly qualified discussion. Or have you forgotten the promises of voters to call for barricades, as individual politicians do, regrettably, in this room too. Generally, there are no achievements behind their shoulders. Their environment -- they didn't understand in society. When there's no one interested in murky water. That's why we live like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to draw attention to the insufficient use of the findings of experts in the parliamentary institutions, whose contents are largely spent by the State and where qualified, responsible people tend to work. I am referring to the secretariats of the Committees, the Legal and Expert Office, research institutes. Given their point of view, it is possible to hold professional discussions on Parliament's committees. It is the committees that must bear the brunt of the work of the bill, and quality papers prepared and prepared for the vote must be placed in the room. The basic provisions of the resonative bills should be introduced to civil society and experts at the drafting stage. It is also important to coordinate our work with other actors in the legislative initiative, the President, the Government, the National Bank. Such an algorithm in my understanding would greatly enhance the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Congress. Moreover, the agenda will be tense. We have tasks that will require the interaction of the MPs. Social inequality in our society remains a serious challenge. People look forward to restoring the principle of social justice and enhancing their well-being. The task of the authorities is to provide a positive response to these expectations. The National Plan of Action for 2013 for the Implementation of Economic Reform is aimed at achieving these objectives and approved by the Head of State. As a result of the economic performance in the first quarter, we will change the budget and make additional resources to increase social standards and increase regional funding. The President of the country took initiatives to support motherhood and childhood. Support for children with special needs and orphans will be increased to a quarter, 100,000 new jobs in kindergartens will be created. Children's sports facilities have been reconstructed. This is an investment in those who will build our country tomorrow. This is the best investment in the future of the State. We have an obligation to make the crisis temporary, to open new prospects for the country. We are developing relations with our partners on the basis of respect for Ukraine's national interests. There is a search for an optimal model of relations with the Customs Union, with a turnover of $63 billion last year. And you can't ignore that. The Brussels Summit has been a milestone in our new relationship with the European Union. A clear joint action plan has been drawn up, and we hope to see the signing of an association agreement with the EU. But it is equally important for us to act together as a deputy corps. We'll be strong inside the country, we'll be strong in the world. The region's party is open to constructive discussion. But dialogue takes two. We expect the opposition to take steps to address the current concerns of the country as a whole. Thank you all for your attention and the neofascists for escorting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u12	Calm down! Calm down! They heard you. Calm down! Freedom Union, who's going to act? Sit down, sit down. Don't be nervous. Sit down, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u14	Oleg Tuggnibok, Freedom. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u15	Glory to Ukraine! Well, Ukrainian people, do you see those bastards from the Party of Regions and Communists making? You see what they're doing, they're deliberately demonstrating that they don't want the Ukrainian Parliament to work. This provocation organized by Ephraim, a representative of the Party of the Regions, shows very clearly that this authority, it is so weak, this authority is absolutely not counted against anything, does not count with the Constitution of Ukraine, does not count this authority entirely with the laws of Ukraine. This authority does not count on the way the Ukrainian people live. And this Parliament will only work if it works to implement the Constitution of Ukraine, to enforce Ukrainian laws. I'm very sorry, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, that you're in the way of such things. I'm very sorry that you seem to be talking about what Parliament is supposed to do, and in fact you're actually provoking and deliberately provoking what's going on right now. Today I want all Ukrainians to know, the nation rises up, the nation rises up against the captives. The nation rises up against oppressors. And the beginning of the action that took place all over Ukraine, "Get up, Ukraine!" And he passed by in three cities: in Winnitz, in Uzhgrad, in Lviv, and in other parts of Ukraine, it is only a testimony that the people will not give to deceive him. The people will not allow themselves to be bullied by the Ukrainians. The people will not allow themselves to be trampled on Ukrainian national dignity to destroy social justice. Today, the authorities are trying to call the budgeters, calling them public organizations. And they want to do a new edition of the Electoral Law. Because they need a majority election. Because right here in the majority system, choosing the Ukrainian Parliament, they can falsify elections like they faked elections last time. But the Ukrainian nation is conscious, the Ukrainian nation is now rising from its knees. And we feel it, we know it. We know that this authority is being created today. When they adopt the Referendum Law, they try to change the constitutional order in Ukraine in a vile, illegal, unconstitutional way. That's why the Freedoms faction today requires that we definitely begin this week, this very week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u16	I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Please turn it off. I'm calling it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u17	Dragniboku's word, two minutes. Finish your speech. I'm asking you to come over and listen to the speech. And then on the list, let's continue the performances. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit in the workplace. I'll give you my word, two more minutes to get the national deputy of the Tegnibok to speak. Simonenko will speak after him. Did they turn on the microphones in the stands?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue my thoughts. We were all indignant that last week the Prime Minister had allowed himself to be rudely humiliated by the Ukrainian national deputies, and there was no meaning either from the opposition or from the power. He decided to approve a government decree regulating the presence of Ukrainian national deputies at government meetings. Thus, it was finally discovered that not only does the government hold meetings on Wednesdays and engages the press in such meetings, it was found that there are secret government meetings every Monday. And most of the time, at those secret government meetings that the Ukrainian national MPs don't press, they don't invite, they "deprecate" huge budgets, like this was planned yesterday when they tried to split about 5 billion dollars. Is there anything I can't understand about the state we live in? What is this Masonic Cabinet of Ministers? What kind of Masonic government is this? What are these secret secret government meetings? And when we consider issues on Friday on Government Day, we will require a clear and concrete response from Prime Minister Azarov directly to what they allow themselves to do and how they implement the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Finally, one of these secret sessions was adopted by the so-called State Programme for the Revitalization of the Ukrainian Economy for 2013-2014. As it was found, the program envisions an unprecedented involvement of huge financial resources of 378 billion. And most of them have to be borrowed again, and Ukraine will fall into a debt pit. And to perfection. The Ukrainian Parliament, as the highest body of legislative authority in the state, will work only if it works constitutionally. And then we will be respected and respected throughout the world. I urge you to do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u19	The word is given to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Behind him is a representative of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u21	I consider it a duty, speaking before you and the voters today, to draw attention to what we have promised the voters, and what problems should be the subject of a serious debate and decision-making in the walls of Parliament. On the basis of our pre-election promises, based on what has been the subject of discussion for each of us who went to the elections, the Company faction declares that after the decision has been taken and the adoption of the agenda for the second session, we will not vote in favour of one of the draft laws until the issue of the abolition of pension reform is resolved and the legitimate right of women to retire at the age of 55 and men at the age of 60 is restored. We will do our utmost to abolish this criminal reform of our nature and to restore to our citizens the right to defend the real work they have done. The Company's faction will not vote in favour of any of the draft laws until medical reform is lifted, leading to the fact that, virtually today, the dying people of Ukraine have been deprived of the right to the necessary medical care. Medical facilities are declining, and the number of doctors is decreasing. Today, there are areas where there are no more children's doctors, there are no operations because there are no anesthesiologists, low wages and the consequences. The Company's faction will not vote in favour of any draft law until we restore the citizens' right to a fair wage and feed their family. To this end, the Company's faction has proposed the introduction of 0.5 per cent of the pennies for not paying wages, and every day this penny of the total unpaid salary should be returned to our citizens. Thus, the Company's faction reaffirms its principled consistent position that the faction's activities are not intended to protect the lobbying interests of the oligarchs, but rather to protect the right of our citizens to receive support from the Supreme Council in real matters rather than lobbying for the oligarchs of draft laws. The faction of the Company will also require the Government to report on why there is still no programme of activities for the Cabinet of Ministers, what is happening with Ukraine when it joins the World Trade Organization, what economic calculations are based on the decision on Euro-integration, why today the people of Ukraine have no right to carry out their civil duty by forming power. the right to choose. The right to choose for the European Union or the Customs Union. We Communists claim that it is the Customs Union that is the future of Ukraine. Just like today, we have the right to demand, and why. The Ternopol region, where the Regional Council has not been in operation for more than four months now, is the only area in Ukraine where the State budget is not approved, why it is now being financed above the standards that go towards the cost of maintaining the budget in the Ternopol area where the crime is committed. We also wanted to ask the Government why, today, in the Hmelnick area, gas is being sold to government agencies for a thousand dollars per thousand cubic metres? Why schools in the Ternopol region and in Hmielnicki receive the same $800 gas per thousand cubic metres. Where is the Government in support of the coal industry? Why don't they get social coal today, 5.9 tons of coal, as it is for our citizens in accordance with the law? Why do tens of thousands of miners today work in ditches without having a decent job with all the protections that are legally defined to protect the lives of our citizens? Once again, the Company stands in principle in the positions of today to protect the interests of ordinary citizens. Once again, and please listen to us, voters, the faction will not vote in favour of the laws adopted today by Parliament until the pension reform, medical reform, and, of course, until the payment of salaries for our citizens is abolished. However, once again, the faction of the Company has proposed to Parliament today a programme of concrete action based on the anti-crisis law. These laws relate primarily to the support and protection of the Ukrainian producer by its actual actions, and not to the emptiness of it. It is the support of our producers with affordable, cheap loans, to protect our economic space from the expansion of the foreign goods it has seized. In fact, economic markets are a deepening of integration for the development of a Ukrainian producer, especially in the high-tech spheres with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, with all CIS States. The Company's faction today proposes real laws to support a Ukrainian producer working in the country to protect a man who, with his own food, must live better and richer. Unfortunately, this is not the case because the country has been pursuing policies against the Ukrainian people for twenty years. And the dying Ukrainian people today pava does not even have a say in their country. The Company's faction will once again vote in favour of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, our vote will only be implemented here once we have adopted projects related to the abolition of pension reform, medical reform and protection of people who do not receive their salaries and salaries today and the pennies they should receive because they have not paid their wages in time. That is the essence of the work of the people's deputies, and that is what we see our task today in order to make it real.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u22	The Fatherland faction. Who will act? Jacinoc Arsenius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u23	All right, dear friends, let's get to work! We're in opposition to the Party of the Regions, to the Communists. You read paper anyway, because you don't know what to say. So we suggest that we translate your Russian papers into English, and so you will speak the English language. Honourable Members of Parliament, the opposition demands that the Supreme Council of Ukraine work for millions of Ukrainians, for millions of Ukrainians who come to the rally, at the "Get up, Ukraine!"and they say that they will no longer live as they do today because of this President, this government and this so-called majority. We started action "Get up, Ukraine!" So that the days of President Yanukovic and the Party of Regions near power would be less and less, and the lives of Ukrainians would really change to the shortest terms. As an opposition, we have presented a very clear plan of economic, social and political change in the country. We insist primarily on the adoption in these walls of laws that change lives, not to give the Ukrainian oligarchy, which today is primarily represented in the Party of Regions, the looting of the people. Those laws that our political opponents propose are aimed at just one thing: taking millions of the poor and making the units rich. That's what you're proposing in your legislation. We believe that Parliament should start with a package of social and economic laws. What is it? First. Cancelling pension reform and adopting the new pension reform proposed by the opposition. Your government has admitted that this Pension Reform Act is ineffective. We demand that we put it in the order of the day. The other one. Oleg Jaroslavovich and I recently returned from Winnitz. In Winnice, where the Party of Regions, along with President Yanukovic, conducted an experiment on four areas where medical facilities are closed, where doctors are expelled, and where Ukrainians cannot receive medical care. We demand the repeal of the Human Experimental Act and the immediate adoption of the State Guaranteeed Level of Provision of Medical Services and the introduction of State Insurance. The Ukrainian nation is dying, and you, as a Party of Regions, are doing everything you can to make money on millions of Ukrainians because you control the entire pharmaceutical industry, you control all the pharmacies, you control all the government's purchases. You're robbing people's lives! Third. Today, President Janukovic and the party of power in accordance with the State Budget Act cost just one and a half million dollars per day. Aren't you going to hit it?Oh, my God! We believe that Parliament must immediately adopt the Law on Change in the State Budget, reduce the cost of retaining the President, reduce the cost of maintaining Parliament, reduce the cost of maintaining government members, sell 16 state residences of President Janukovic (too much for him). [[Applause]] And the money to send for social benefits and social assistance. We demand justice today. In our social package, so are the job creation laws, the simplification of the taxation system, the laws that enable Ukraine to start economic growth, not the destruction of the economy that this government started. The third month in a row, the Ukrainian economy falls, the third month in a row, people don't get the money, and they don't even have anything to buy food for. And this is all the activity of this government, which is assigned by the Party of Regions with the Communists, and they are both responsible for the work of this government. We also demand that a political package be adopted in Ukraine. When we talk about a political package, it's primarily about the President of Ukraine. The President must be accountable to his people. Therefore, the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Impeachment requires millions of Ukrainians, let the President not be afraid of the responsibility of millions of Ukrainians for making his government. As far as European integration is concerned. Well, let's cut to the chase. You're talking about what we want in Europe. Europe, the venerable regions, is not just the currency of the euro you use, Europe is first of all the values. We believe that on Thursday all laws on European integration and conditions should be passed, including the release of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, to stop political prisoners. We demand that this Parliament, which is elected by the people of Ukraine, understand its responsibility to millions of Ukrainians who want justice, who want a decent life, and who do not want those units of power to abuse millions. It'll be the other way around, and we'll prove it. Or you will work for the people of Ukraine, or the people of Ukraine will be swept away.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. You know, on schedule from 12 to 12 hours it was supposed to be a break. This is an offer of up to 14 hours of continuous work. Is there no objection? So let's get to the point. The draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call (Registration No. 2175) is under consideration. On February 4, 2013, the Conciliation Council of Deputies discussed and approved a draft of the agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that, during this time, additional bills were introduced and registered by the MPs and individual MPs, as discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday. We decided to add these bills to the draft agenda for the second session (registration number 2175, appendix 2). And according to the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am introducing a draft agenda for the day - to - day second session for approval by the Supreme Council. And it's suggested that we first adopt the agenda of the session, and then consider and vote on whether it's a list, or any proposal that comes from factions and national MPs, and go into Appendix 2. Can we put it to a vote like this? Please, Pinzenic, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u25	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Vitaly Klitschka, a faction of the political party, passed 18 bills that didn't get on that list. There was only one draft law that we had put into the list. Our proposal is to include all the factions in this project, and we're ready to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u26	Give me the laws, I'll pass. And what other suggestions are there? Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u27	Simonenko, the Communist faction. In view of the 26 draft laws prepared and registered by the Company’s faction, they did not enter into the order you are talking about, Volodymyr Vasilovich. I read the numbers, you have 2128, 2172, 2183, 2188, 2193, 2194, 2195, 2197, 2202, 2214, 2217, 2272, 2280, 2281, 2292, 2328, 2339, 2343, 2361, 2366, 2371, 2417, 2461, 2497, 2503 and 2547. These draft laws please be included in the agenda. And we're going to vote for the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u28	Let's get this over with. Please, National Deputy Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, yesterday the Conciliation Council also raised issues that were addressed at the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. So please add Project 2299 to the consideration of additional issues for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u30	What's the number? 2297.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u31	2299.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u32	2299. People's MP Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, unfortunately, most of those bills that were proposed by Freedom yesterday at the Conciliation Council were not put into the agenda. Because of this, we propose, first, to exclude from the schedule for a week draft 2177 on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (to determine some of the revenues of the budget), which is ultimately destroying local self-government. And the 1175 bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the stable operation of strategic energy companies is another baseless debt cancellation. To include 1250 in the agenda on the elimination of private monopolies; 1248 on the return of capitals held and registered in the Republic of Cyprus in offshore zones and other jurisdictions exempt from double taxation or those with a tax credit regime, as well as 1233, 1249, 2012, 2101, 2122, 2123, 2126, 2135.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u35	Without the title of the bill, only numeration: 2221, 2228, 2278, 2283, 2296, 2315, 2322. These are bills either filed by the Freedom faction or in conjunction with the Strike and Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u36	Let's get these issues under consideration. Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u37	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, there's a question that's already passed by the Main Committee, and it's very important today. It's a matter of recognizing that it's lost its validity, Ukraine's All-Ukrainian Referendum Act. Number 1088, 1088-1. They passed the Main Committee, passed the Committee on Legal Policy and were recommended for consideration. They were filed on December 13, 2012. Taking into account the pace at which the preparations for the referendum are being prepared today, as if following a national initiative to join the Customs Union and so on, and so on, we consider it urgent that these bills be considered and not allow, in fact, the abolition of Ukraine's sovereignty and independence by joining the Customs Union -- 1088, 1088-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u38	1089 and 1089-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u39	88.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u40	Yes. Please call me because I'm a last name. Turn on the microphone. You've been turned on. Call it for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u41	Packan Valeriy Vasilovich, head of the Human Rights Committee. Vladimir Vasilovich, please include the Parliamentary Hearing Order: "Ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them" (No. 2502). She's voted on the committee. Please include it in the agenda for this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u42	We are now discussing issues that are being raised for the consideration of the second session of the seventh vocation. So let's bring in here, and then let's figure out when we look at it. Jacinek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u43	Vladimir Vasilovich, there's an offer. Because in three pines, we're going to be confused with the bill numbers and the day-to-day session. The very right and legitimate proposal should be that all that is registered in the bill registration sector as of today should be included in the agenda of the session and during the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u44	We have a thousand laws under consideration today, and we will never consider them. Let's make this concrete.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u45	And then we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u46	Come on. Yavorowski. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste, Kiev, Fatherland. Well, first of all, I think it was a very smart suggestion: really include everything. This is the right of a national MP. He is, he has the right to legislative initiative. Let's go to the committee, after the committee, to the Supreme Council, and it's okay if we work, we do everything. But let's say we remove what was agreed on yesterday at the Conciliation Council -- a very annoying question about the rebirth of the unique symbol of the Orthodox Church. I want to remind my colleagues that this is a minefield that someone wants to chase down Ukrainian society. So delicate, so delicate a question, so unique a memory, let us not get involved today. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, Vladimir Vasilovich, and let's delete number 1074, this is the draft of the Renaissance Act, and the second, 1161, concerning construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u48	Can it be ruled out? Turn on Yavorowski! Accurate!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u49	Two of these bills need to be excluded – 1074 and 1161 are not included. Too many questions are annoying and do not need to get the Supreme Council involved in these disputes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u50	Yeah. Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Aleksandrovich, these are my bills. And in your speech, you denied yourself. On the one hand, you're talking about the sovereign right of every subject in the legislative initiative to bring to Parliament an initiative that arises in society, on the other hand, you're discriminating me as a subject of the legislative initiative for*** to let our colleagues consider such a legislative initiative. I'm going to remind you that it's about getting into the agenda of the day session. And it's the profile committee, and we had a conversation with the head of the profile committee yesterday about this issue, and we agreed that we'd be artificially pedaling the consideration of these laws, not to be, but to be able to discuss, to be discussed, but in the order of the day, these laws should be, like the rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Jeremeyev, then – Voropeyev. Please. Involve Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, honourable members of the people, there is still a great deal of legislation coming out of the voice and there is really a radio. Either you have to put all the bills in the agenda, or today you have to vote on the basis, and by tomorrow morning, you have to print all these bills so that we can understand what's included, what's not included. And before we start voting, there is a request for the Head of the Supreme Council to announce the number of deputies who have registered, who are not in the room, who are not in the room, so that we can then understand who is voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u54	Thank you, Voropayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u55	Dear Chairman! I request the inclusion in the agenda of additional issues that were registered in February and March.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u56	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u57	2006, 2007, 2011, 2035, 2148, 2303 and alternative 2303-1, 2272.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u58	All right, everybody, give me the number of the law I'm listening to. Listen, you heard, let's give the number of the law what?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u59	Write down the number of the law. I'm glad I told you. Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Please include a daily bill of 2225 on changes to the Tax Code, because this is a very painful issue for industry today. And it was introduced a month ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u61	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! At the request of the Federation of Professionals of Ukraine, I have drafted a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations and Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities. This bill is registered on 06.02, number 2204. It is very important to protect the rights of the trade unions, particularly their right to own property, which they are constantly encroaching on. So I very much ask you to put into order the daily draft of Law 2204 amending the Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights, Guarantees of Activity, dated 06.02. In 2013 Thank you. Again, 2204.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u63	Please. Then there's Blackwolf. Can we get to a thousand already? Let's go for the whole cadence.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction. This year marks 1115 years since the founding of the city of Galic Ivano-Frankiv. The corresponding decree number 1254 is registered. Please enter into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u65	Jacinek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u66	Vladimir Vasilovich, please, let's go back to the basic proposal. Even so, according to the Regulations of the Conciliation Council, we accept those bills that fall on schedule for a week. Right? That's right! And we're discussing them. Let us make one right decision, as was the case when there was democratic power in Parliament: all the bills we vote on are registered. Put to the vote, and we will have no discussion, no problems with the Ukrainian national deputies. Then, on the Conciliation Board, we will determine. I mean, there's this request.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u67	Well, I think there's already two deputies left, all the laws are over. What's in order of the day, we're determined, we're going to take it as a base now. They're all extra. We're all going to write today and vote for the extra tomorrow, and everything's going to be fine. Give me another minute, Yatzenjuk. Give me some more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u68	Vladimir Vasilovich, they will be dissatisfied again. Let's not invent a bicycle. Put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of all the bills registered today and closed the subject. Because now we're going to take it as a basis, tomorrow there's going to be a bunch of letters of dissatisfaction that the law didn't fall, that law didn't fall. That's how the entire room votes, 400 with a hook of deputies and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u69	I understand what you're saying. Miroshenko and Oleg Lazko later.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the issue of the approval of the order of the day session is clearly stated in our regulations. Yes, actually, the chairman is proposing a draft ruling, and we're voting on it as a basis. Then our colleagues, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Rules, who insist on further voting on their bills, the chairman puts in place and, to the extent that they receive 226 votes, they include the same, then we vote on the ruling as a whole. This is what our Rules predict, and I propose that we do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I think it's a very good suggestion to include all the bills. Every national MP has the right to a legislative initiative and no one can limit that right. Let the hall determine whether or not the bill is supported or not. Let the Conciliation Board determine for the current plenary week that they are carrying. But if the MPs have registered bills in the registration sector, who has the right to refuse to allow these bills to be considered further? Why does one take the authority to replace deputies and deprive them of the opportunity to implement their legislative initiatives? So the right proposal, we vote in favour of all the bills, we put it into the agenda, and then let the hall determine which bill will be supported, which is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u73	I ask the faction leaders to express their thoughts. Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u74	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I propose to take advantage of what is defined in the Rules. The proposals, which were prepared by the deputies in advance, were summarized and entered into the draft, which was proposed by the President in order for the Supreme Council to vote. Other projects that have already been implemented since this document. They naturally need to be considered. And I am convinced that it is precisely those draft laws that provide an opportunity to provide for the Ukrainian people. Of course, it is not possible to include those laws, draft laws that have already been passed, and today try to draw on us when we discredit ourselves before the world community, and support the collaborators who support and cooperate with the fascists during the Great Homeland War. The Company's faction therefore supports the proposal that was originally identified. We vote on the basis of the draft introduced by you, Vladimir Vasiljevic, and then each individual vote on the draft law, which. It's a proposition, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u75	Ephraim, please. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, we held a Conciliation Council with you yesterday. Within the Conciliation Council, we have determined how we will vote. The Committees made proposals and issued an order. Let us therefore vote on the basis of this draft regulation, and put those who wish to include to the vote. Whether or not, the vote in the room will be displayed. Our faction supports that particular voting system. And with regard to the roar created by the neo-fascists in our room, I would like to draw the press's attention once again. They used to ask me why we passed the law in Russian. Here's the answer to that question, here's the growth of the regime when people are just trying to shut their throats. Don't shut up! You won't be able to do that! As we have spoken, we will speak in the language of our constituents and in our native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u77	Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u78	We propose to include in the agenda the annual message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external status by March 31st. This is provided for in article 167 of the Law on the Rules, as well as for all the laws that have been registered to include them in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u79	Pull up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. [[B in m in s a l in]] So here's our proposal. We propose to include in the agenda all the bills that have been registered so far. If this is done to you, Mr. Head, this will be the right step, and we will be able to vote as the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" as a basis and as a whole for the order of the day. If not, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support such a proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] And to those screamers who allow themselves to express such hurtful things, I'm only going to say one thing. Not honorable MPs, Ukrainian society has long since identified who are who: who robs, who steals, and who fights for justice, national and social. Ukrainians will surely win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u81	Deputies! Three deadlines have passed. I'll give my word to the last deputy and we'll be clear. Please. Turn on Zarubinski's microphone. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I'm going to be very concise, and I'm going to ask you to put two bills into the agenda of this session that relate to stimulating the shipbuilding industry in Ukraine, which provides, everyone understands, a lot of jobs, including in adjacent areas. The number of these bills is 2488 and 2489. Thank you very much. These are the bills we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u83	The last faction manager for the third time. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u84	I'm going to try to explain for the third time in Ukrainian to the Russian-speaking Party of Regions and Communists what we want to do. First. We want the entire Parliament now, every Ukrainian national MP, to maintain the order of the day session. The other one. In order for this to happen, the chairman must put to the vote one question: The inclusion in the agenda of all the bills registered today. Third. If you announce it, it means that the whole Parliament will maintain this order of the day. Four. On the Conciliation Councils, we will determine with you in accordance with the Rules which bills will be included in the schedule. Fifth. If you don't go for it, we can't support it, and that means you don't want unity inside the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions are proposing to take a decision that has been registered. Then take all the suggestions that we have today, decipher everything, and tomorrow bring out an additional question to everyone. And everything will be what Arsenius Petrovich asks, what all factions ask. So the determination that's registered, I want you to vote for the basis, the appendix we're deciphering, and tomorrow we're voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to set up a decree (registration number 2175) on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this call as a basis. Please vote. [[12:22:45]] For 221 Factions, factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 27, Freedom - 0, Company - 0, non-fractional - 9. On the basis of the vote. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, we talked about this yesterday. I want to emphasize again. We have agreed that Appendix 1, Appendix 1, shall be voted on. Appendix 2 shall be voted on separately. Therefore, the faction will vote in favour of Appendix 1, which is the basis of the agenda. There are controversial issues in the second appendix, and then there will be a separate vote. That's why the faction didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u87	Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, I would ask you to do as we agreed. If we proceed to the vote, I ask to ask people to the hall, because some of the deputies have now left the room and have not been able to vote. Although they have registered and are in the Supreme Council building. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u89	I'm asking you to tell the deputies in the towers that the deputies will enter the session hall. Pinzenik, please. In explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! There is a very simple decision that Vitaly Klitschko spoke of, said Arsenius Yatzenuk. Include all draft laws in the agenda. We won't have any problems with the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u91	All on the basis of the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can hear you. Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! From the factions we've come to realize that our Communist colleagues don't object to taking the basis of the project that you're proposing, the decision. But no "Appendix Two." "Appendix 2, which should be voted in the same order as those laws which were now called our colleagues in the hall should be voted on. So we ask you to put once again the draft regulation without "Appendix 2" and "Appendix 2" to vote in the same order as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u93	I have formulated and put to the vote a decree (registration number 2175) with no accessories. And the apps have to be deciphered and considered tomorrow, and voted. Come on, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! My colleague Miroshnichenko made a completely wrong offer. Usually everything is voted on as a basis, including plugins. Then he votes on the chapters. And what is not supported is not about voting as a whole. So you have to do what you've suggested: on the basis of that, that's all. Then we need to print out all the suggestions that have been, look at every faction and every deputy, and accept them as a whole. Then it is possible to vote on the chapters. And what is offered is, in a mild sense, incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, let's define it this way. We have a resolution, and we have an appendix -- the laws that made the MPs. So let's take this as a base, decrypt all these extra laws and then vote in general. So I'm betting, I'm putting it to a vote. I put the vote to a decision and all the laws that introduced the factions and committees in the appendix. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u97	Please. Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, is an offer that I hope will be supported by what we talked about. You've introduced a draft decree. Yesterday, a decision came up with "Appendix Two," which is a logical part of your draft decision. We, the Communist faction, propose to vote in favour of your draft ruling on a basis without the "Appendix Two," which appeared yesterday after the Conciliation Council. We're ready to support your draft decision without "Appendix Two." All the rest of the apps vote tomorrow. Consider each plugin separately. So please put to the vote a draft order without "Appendix Two." We are ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u99	Let's do it in turn, let's vote in turn, because there's a lot of proposals, and let's define ourselves by voting. I put to the vote the proposal Adam Ivanovich made, the regulation and Appendix Two, which were determined on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u100	So he said it was a supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u101	Please sit down, I'll make an offer. Without what supplement? Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. I'm going to make a proposal to put in the agenda of the second session of the seventh vocation all the draft laws that are registered. Prepare for the vote, everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] I put to the vote all the laws that are registered, the draft laws and regulations that are registered in the Supreme Council for inclusion in the agenda of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is it? Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:35:00]] For-151 The factions. Region Party 12, Fatherland 83, Vitaly Caller Strike 38, Freedom 0, Company 0, non-fractional 18. That's what I said. The second sentence is inserted: The order of the day we have considered on the Conciliation Council, please vote on the basis of the appendix number. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, listen again, don't shout, don't go yelling, I beg you. I'm betting on a vote on the basis of the draft Decree (Registration No. 2175) on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the seventh non-application. Please vote. [[12:36:32]] For 227 The draft has been approved. Factions: Region Party - 193, Fatherland - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 32, non-fractional - 2. A proposal is now being made for all additions, to decipher them, to consider them in factions, and to present them tomorrow for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is that a decision to make? That was the decision we made. On the basis of the vote. Last name? Ilik. Please turn it on. I can't hear you, the noise's coming! Ilik, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I appeal to you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: I ask you to ensure the implementation of part of the First Rules, article 26 of the Ukrainian Law, which, in the Chamber of the Supreme Council, is registered to the People's Deputy through an electronic system in such a way that it makes it impossible to register instead of a national deputy to another person. This means that the Digital Commission controls the use of the electronic system in plenary sessions. In case of necessity, when there are questions that don't belong to the known, in fact, the Counting Commission, the National Deputy, or anyone present in the Hall, or the Head, or the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, should contact the Regulatory Committee what is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u104	. illegal electronic registration of deputies. There's a remote where I have an illegal registration of a national MP, a card and a missing national MP. In this regard, therefore, this vote is considered illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u105	All of it! Let's move on to another question. [[B in m in s a l in]] What should we do? [[B in m in s a l in]] I give him my word. Please. Deputy Humil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u106	Dear fellow MPs! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow MPs, in the morning we warned the Chief of the Supreme Council that we would exercise parallel control over the impersonal voting of the deputies in the Supreme Council. Now in voting on the basis of the agenda, a violation took place: Rudzkowski voted in favour of the absent deputy Oneshchenka, and Lewovczyn voted in favour of the deputy Gorin. You weren't at the time of the vote. There are pictures that will show it now. Now we're going to show it in the photos. The same was true of Lebedev’s vote, which served as the minister of defense. According to the Rules of Procedure Act, we require a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u107	I'll give you my word now. I'm asking you to turn on the rostrum. The People’s Deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, if there are issues of mistrust, then let us put the vote to the vote and vote again. And that's all, and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u109	All right, have a seat. We'll re-vote. Prepare to vote. I ask you all to prepare for the vote. I can't hear you yelling. We agreed that I would put it to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Rosenko, strike faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u110	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Vladimir Vasilovich, all of our problems started today from the first second of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when you, in violation of all the arrangements we reached four weeks ago, violating the Rules, did not read the personal registration of the written vote at the registration tables. Who's missing today? We ask and demand once again to take the written registration data, to announce the Ukrainian national deputies who are not present in writing today, and to block their cards so that no personal vote can take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u111	Go read the Rules, and I'll give you another minute, you'll read it. Ephraim. And you're going to tell this under the Rules. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u112	Vladimir Vasilevich, you said the right thing. There is no rule of the Rules that obliges you to read it familiarly. There is a rule of law that says that you inform the room of the number of people present and so on. They're themselves in a situation where they call the names of people we don't seem to have, and they're all there. And to solve the problem, they want everyone to be called because they have a problem with the presence of deputies in the hall, and they have no deputies to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u113	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u114	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the amendments to the Rules that we have recently adopted with you, and President Yanukovic has signed, each MP should preside personally. I inform you that during the vote for the approval of the agenda, a vote was taken by the National MP Rudzkowski. Everyone has the opportunity to make sure that this colleague of ours is not in the hall. That's minus one vote at 227. Repeal the Lebedev card, which serves as a minister of defense and does not have the right to vote. That's 225 votes, that's not really a decision you're making. So, in order for the Supreme Council to have no scandals to work, give the task of removing or blocking the cards of absent national MPs, and then vote. And when you refuse to pass those laws that have been passed by the opposition, the opposition MPs who demand millions of people, and you're stretching only your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u115	Alexander Sergiyovich, Rudzkowski's card, where is it? She won't take it into account. As far as swans are concerned, the national MP is, for today he is. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking Shufrich. Turn on Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Respectful colleagues, for especially clever ones, and for those who look intently. I remember well, we agreed that if the vote was recorded with another missing person’s card, and that affected the result, we would vote. And now for those, he can count. 227 minus one Rudzkowski voice is 226. I'm sorry, I may be wrong, but I just saw Swan alive. So the fact that he's the secretary of defense is another question. So there's no basis for a vote, so I'm asking you to move forward on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u117	I'm a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u118	Volodymyr Vasilovich, first of all, as far as Lebedev is concerned. Mr. Gritsenko, sit down because I can't see my head. First of all, it's about Swan. What were you in such a hurry to sign Vlasenko's lawsuit, and you haven't signed Swan for a month, have you? [[Applause]] The other one. Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u119	The Supreme Council, make up your mind!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u120	You have a party of regions like the Communist Party. First you create problems, then you create them successfully, and then you don't succeed. Well, I told you, put all the bills to the vote. You don't have enough votes. Let's vote for all the halls. I'm also explaining by law, and legally speaking, I'm explaining everything to you. Well, let's vote and close the subject. Put it to a vote -- all the bills are based on the agenda. And they closed the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u121	Well, I did. But you didn't vote! Well, I put it like you asked. I'm betting on voting, just like you asked. I'm betting on a new vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2175) on the order of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. No plugins. Please, vote. [[12:51:25]] For-146 [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's microphone. I'm asking you to listen to the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u122	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, you and I have adopted a number of 227 votes on the basis of draft decree number 2175 without Appendix 2. [[B in m in s a l in]] And so I suggest, if this is about voting in accordance with the 47th article, that we vote, vote on what we have voted. Once again, we voted in favour of the draft decree on the basis of the approval of the agenda without Appendix Two. Here's how I would like to put this proposal to the vote now without Appendix 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll put it to the vote, as you requested. On the Conciliation Council, we have determined with you the Order of the Supreme Council on the order of the day of the second session. And there's a proposal: no "Appendix 2" to vote. Prepare for the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:56:45]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Region Party - 192, Parenthood - 0, Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 32, non-fractional - 1. Make a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. The Conciliation Board of Faction Managers, we have considered the situation that is in the order of the day of the second session and decided to hold consultations, work and return to the agenda of this week's issues, vote and consider the issues that are proposed for this week. I'll put it to the vote now. Please prepare for the vote. Who's in charge of establishing the agenda, please vote. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the delegates from the watchtowers to the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u124	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u125	Everybody ready? There is an offer: To confirm the order of the day’s session this week from this day until Friday, you have it. May I put it to a vote? Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[13:09:05]] For 382 Factions: Region Party 194, Parenthood 81, Vitalia Klitschko 22, Freedom 34, Company 32, non-fractional 19. Vitaly Klitschko, are you on the basis of the vote? So let's get to the point. We're moving on to issues. What questions might there be? Let us turn to the committee proposals for parliamentary hearings. We put it in the agenda. I note that when we consider these issues, we need to take into account that according to article 233 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, parliamentary hearings are held during a sessional period, usually not more than once a month on the day of the week, which is held for work on committees and parliamentary factions. The draft Decree (Registration 1240) on parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Book: The Realities of Today and the Prospects for the Development of the National Bookstore and Distribution" is being considered. As we'll discuss it: in full.? Short? A proposal is made to consider the issue of parliamentary hearings by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:12:11]] For 234 The factions, please. Region Party - 187, Fatherland – 8, Vitalia Klicka – 33, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 1, non-fractional – 5. On the basis of the vote. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u126	I would like to draw attention to the fact that we do not comply with the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the MPs, who are now including shouting, are not voting, as it is stated, under the Basic Law of our State. Therefore, I would like everyone to participate in the work and comply with the Basic Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u127	We agreed that we would consider the issue of a reduced procedure. For a report on this issue, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality of Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u128	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! We have the possibility of partially intellectually rehabilitating and adopting the Parliamentary Hearing Order: "The Ukrainian Book. The realities of the present and the prospects for the development of the country's bookmaking and distribution." I don't think it's too much to promote in this room the importance of this issue, but I want to tell you that according to all the statistics in the country, there is a decline in both actual and actual bookkeeping, or reading. We have less than one book per reader last year. In developed countries, five books per reader. On average, one Ukrainian spends not more than 20 dollars a year per book. Any of them: both native and not native. Well, let's say two and a half US dollars. While the Polish book reader spent an average of $45 last year on the book, yes, for convenience in the equivalent, I say. The problem with libraries fell by 80 percent after last year. So the crisis awaits these institutions. Why? Because the book is not being funded, there are no purchases into the library, very difficult purchase conditions. And we are faced with the beginning of massive crises in this queen. Plus import, let me tell you, is 80 percent of the Ukrainian market. If legal imports are counted and illegal, smuggled imports. We asked the committee questions. We have all the estimates and confirmations of this data. The data is also supported by the Ukrainian Association of Publishers and Publishers. Such hearings should have been in the past. Yet the election campaign began. Could not execute them. Since the term proposed in the decree came out, I propose to support the hearing on May 15, this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u129	Any questions for the reporter? I won't. Short discussion procedure. Presentations by two representatives of the MP factions. I'll give it now, I want it after the committee so they know. Two in, two in. A statement on the motive for voting a representative from a non-controversy MP is one minute. And the decision. A report from the committee, Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u130	Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Head of the Bookkeeping and Distribution Subcommittee. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you and our distinguished voters that one of Ukraine's visits is a book. We must have introduced the book into our spiritual use. And I want to remind you of Fedorov, and I want to remind you of the library of Yaroslav the Wise, of the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy, which from the Kyiv hills lit up all over Europe at that time. Let me remind you that Jaroslavna, daughter of Jaroslav the Wise, taught the French king to sign under this or even signed for it. Because of this book we have in all our times, throughout the centuries it has been, indeed, a principal, spiritual source. And if someone told us, even in the middle or early last century, that in the 21st century, when, of course, there are electronic media coming today, an electronic book that will be in such a difficult and disgraceful group that they are in today, it is unlikely that anyone would believe. Here my colleague Slava said 80 percent of imported books. I have a little bit of other data: 86 percent, which is Russian literature. Don't catch us, we're not against Russian literature, it's beautiful literature. But when we make up, Ukrainians today put such a misery on the market, I think every soul should just shudder. I want to remind you of one more thing. The Ukrainian authorities passed out in the early 1990s, when Russia introduced huge benefits into its bookkeeping, and grew up in Russia in a huge bookstore. Today, if I'm not mistaken, he's in fourth place after oil, gas and all that. But it's also done because it's exported in the post-Radians period. We just woke up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u131	Turn on the finish line.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u132	We only woke up in 2004 when the bookstore began to rise a little. Today all benefits are cancelled, and they are again in decline. Because I think that a massive intellectual, intelligent discussion in the Supreme Council of this problem is very appropriate, and please vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Are they willing to come out of the faction? Please sign up. From factions. Martinyuk, Freedom Union. Behind him is Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u134	Leontius Martinyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Indeed, the Ukrainian booktelling is now in a terrible crisis. In fact, we have only one book per year. And this is the smallest indicator in Europe at all. It is just a shame for such a country, one of the largest countries in Europe, in the center of Europe. And what's the worst thing that's going on in the process is the Russians. For example, a book study in Russian increased 45 percent by name and 80 percent by circulation. At the same time, Ukraine’s books are printed more than 10 percent by appointment and only 31 percent by overhead. So the Ukrainian book is almost printed, the dynamics of the Ukrainian book are almost five times weaker than the Russian by name and by name. It's almost three times less than the charge. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, of course, for this discussion, and we support the absolute determination to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Deputy Herman, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the position of the Party of the Regions on this issue, the voting of the Party of the Regions will show great respect for the Party of the Regions for the Ukrainian language and for the Ukrainian book. And this should be an example for those deputies who do not respect the language of our electorate. We would like to have the same respect for the language of those who voted most of their own for the Party of Regions. There is no one in this room who will be opposed to the book - making work, against the subject, and against the publication in Ukraine. But for the Ukrainian book to be competitive, it has to be written in a way that makes it competitive. Not all the writers here who so advocate the book of Ukraine wrote something good while they were in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u139	Turn on Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u140	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the matter really deserves to be considered and considered carefully. But let's see why we're looking at this in this time period. As we move to Europe, a civilized country, as if the people live better and better, and the books are less readable. So let's think about what general policy is, today libraries are closing down, not opening up. Today, the number of books is shrinking, not increasing. The price of a book is that it cannot be bought. A child’s book in general is, for example, difficult to find. As this applies, by the way, not only in the bookstore, but in the whole of culture and art in Ukraine. Then, when we talk about what a person wants or does not want to buy today, you want to impose or give a book that a person wants to buy to read. First, say that this book is, that it is in the moods and interests of Ukrainian citizens, and then it will be purchased. I'm not talking about what you read. So the faction of the Company once again draws your attention to the fact that you are leaving people out of work today. And what's he gonna buy the book for when today's tariffs go up, they go up, they don't pay the wages, so let's say. Next, prices for other services are rising. It's to feed the family, dress, shoes and other utilities to pay for -- where's he gonna get the money for that book?Oh, my God! Therefore, Your Honor, the problem is quite different: that the state of Ukraine, which has this name, is not a state for its own people. But it is a state for oligarchs and those who today use it to steal, steal, and haul. The faction emphasizes once again, the faction of the Company -- we're for looking. But I'm reminding you that the faction won't vote in favour of every draft law until we abolish the pension reform until we reverse the medical reform and restore what has to do with the return of wages and what it has to do with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u141	It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Rosetta, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, let us remind you that today is the day of the birth of our distinguished artists, Maxim Rilsky and Lena Costenko. And I think it's absolutely fair that the best gift or respect for their memory is to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Decision on the prospects for the development of domestic bookmaking. And clearly, the strike faction will vote in favour of this Order. Vladimir Vasilovich, so that I don't take the vote for reasons, there is an appeal to you. Today we are discussing 7 questions about the holding of parliamentary hearings. But unfortunately, there was no initiative of the strike faction, registered since March 7th on the Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Consequences of Pension Reform and the Ways of Reforming the Pension System. This is a very sensitive question. Today, we have heard this in the speeches of the national MPs. I understand that this week's agenda has been formed. On April 2nd, I ask you to consider the proposal of the strike faction to hold such parliamentary hearings. Moreover, the committee of expertise for veterans, disabled persons and pensioners has almost unanimously supported our decision to hold parliamentary hearings on pension reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u143	Thank you. From Fatherland, please. And one of them. Fatherland, Arseny Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u144	Vladimir Vasilovich, this is not now about the draft decree, but about the organization of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are controllers upstairs for the results of the vote. Both the guards and the State Security Department are expelling the National Deputys of Ukraine, who exercise control and determine the results of a non-personal vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're asking you to call off these chain dogs that attacked people who are implementing the Constitution and demanding that the regions vote in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u145	I've sent the head of the Secretariat there right now, and they'll figure it out. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the decision, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the Bill of Decree (Registration No. 1240) on parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Book. Today's realities and prospects for the development of the country's bookstore and distribution" are held on May 15 for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:27:46]] For 342 Factions: Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 77, Vitalia Klicka - 35, Freedom - 30, Company - 0, non-fractional - 16. Turn on Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kiev, Fatherland Trinity. Dear colleagues, I am simply speaking to a lady who here said that there are writers who sit in Parliament and write nothing. I want to say to her that I just came out with a novel called The Longest Night of the President. There is a foregleam of a heroin called Marousia Crustrel. Read it, ma'am, you'll learn a lot there. So I write, I write, don't worry. I just finished a new novel called "Lie down!!! (three exclamation marks) The court goes" is a sequel to the same novel. So don't panic.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u147	Thank you. National deputy Shevchenko, begs for word, something with a vote is wrong. Turn on Chewchenk's microphone. Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, we have a repeat of the unpleasant situation: as our colleague, National Deputy Kye, has just been recorded as voting with two cards. At the top it looks like it was deputy Maltsev's second card. Despite the very convincing outcome of the vote, we find this absolutely unacceptable. Once again, we warn colleagues from the Party of Regions that every violation will be fixed and unfortunately, Mr. Head, we will now have to go through the voting procedure. I think if we figure out whose card this is, it has to be blocked, the second card. My colleagues, let's stop! Either we become a normal parliament today, we begin to become one, or there will be no work. Today and forever! It's time to put order in the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u149	Thank you. It's the People's Deputy Herman's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u150	I wanted to remind the honourable writer that I wasn't talking about him not writing novels, I was talking about him not writing good novels.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u151	As we shall be. Something we'll re-vote often. How are we going to work? I'm asking you not to vote for each other. Vote only with your card. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, what's going on? What's up? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Vasiljevic, I. Let's probably put the amplifiers in or translate for those people in the hall who don't understand Russian. We have, in the Rules, who is concerned about these problems, especially concern that personal translation may be made for them. If they are wild people who do not know other languages, let them learn to do so. As far as this is concerned. Do you want to vote? Vote without us. We voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u153	Please don't vote here. But they all vote for themselves. Involved. The draft Decree (Registration No. 1258) on Parliamentary hearings on "Implementing Digital Standards of Speech in Ukraine" is being introduced. It is proposed on March 20, 2013. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to vote on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Ukrainian Book: The Realities of Today and the Prospects for the Development of National Bookkeeping and Distribution". Return to voting. I'll bet you a vote: go back. [[B in m in s a l in]] To vote, and then to vote, yes. I'll bet you a vote. Vote. [[13:34:16]] For the 250. The factions. Region Party - 90, Fatherland - 80, Strike - 35, Freedom - 33, Company - 0, Postfaction - 12. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you calm down or not. I don't know what happened to everyone! So come and teach me that "let's put it to a vote first" and then vote "yes", and vice versa. We went back to voting. And now I'm thinking, who's in charge of adopting the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order? [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's in favour of the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Book: The Realities of Today and the Prospects for the Development of the National Bookstore" (No. 1240) to accept as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[13:35:51]] For-183 On the grounds of the vote, Arseny Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u154	Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, may I have a moment of your peace? This is not our first personal vote, so we need to understand how to act. When we passed the law, Vladimir Vasilovich, when one of the deputies raises his hand and says that "not personal voting," you put it simply to the vote, not to the question of the agenda. In all other circumstances, when voting on a basis, in general, any other procedural matter, there you have to go back to the voting procedure and put it to a vote again. Understand? So first we're just voting in the voting process. And if you want to go back to acceptance essentially, not for personal voting, then you do it in two steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u155	It's a deal. A draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings "Implementing Digital Standards of Speech in Ukraine" (No. 1258) is under consideration. Tomenko is given a word for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u156	Decision taken. The first decision is made. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u157	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm sorry, you gave me two minutes. I did not see anyone making a decision on a short procedure. Either vote for a brief procedure, or 10 minutes on my order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u158	Report!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u159	How am I? Then put out an order of 10 minutes. No one voted in favour of the short procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u160	We voted in favour of a short procedure to address all questions of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u161	All of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u162	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! As for the reduced procedure. Each issue needs to be considered separately for decision making. [[Applause]] That's the first one. And the second. We decided to hold parliamentary hearings on the Ukrainian book twice. Dear National Deputies! When changes were made to the Rules, stupidity was accepted. It is that if one MP claims that there was a vote in favour of a missing person, then the vote is on the table. But the question arises, and if not voted on, is the decision first made or not? This question needs to be settled because they were in such a hurry to accept nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal for parliamentary hearings, a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the introduction of digital standards of speech in Uckerain! Considered by the shorthand program. You can put it to a vote. I'll bet you a vote. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[13:40:15]] For 212 We're looking at the full program. Ah, that's a procedural decision. We'll learn, we'll learn. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u165	Volodymyr Vasilovich, as I report on behalf of the committee and the copyright team, would ask for four minutes, as stipulated in the Rules. Dear colleagues, on the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, unanimously approved the decision to invite you to consider a very special and difficult decision, which we are not talking about today, but which will touch more than 10 million households that are connected to television since June 17, 2015. Ukraine signed an international agreement called "Geneva-2006" and committed itself to moving from analog to digital language. What is happening today? Today, the National Television and Radio Council has adopted a series of decisions that gave the right to speak on digital television dozens of television companies that had not spoken before the decision was made. No one knows what this organization is. Instead, we got the right to say TV, 2+2, and a lot of other famous television companies. Who is preparing for digital language in Ukraine? A private company from Zeonbud, registered in Cyprus, whose owners are still unaccounted for. Imagine that if we don't figure out who owns today and the main provider of digital language in 2015, the button of all Ukrainian television will be in Cyprus with an unknown owner. And at some specific point, either someone buys over the entire television system, or someone controls Ukrainian television. The second problem is the system of funding and preparation for digital speech. Today, this organization, Zeonbud, has set tariffs on its own that pay all the broadcasting organizations that on average make up 2 million 100,000 a month. This is the order of 25 million a year. Imagine, Vladimir Vasilovich, I remind you, I'm from the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u166	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u167	So today there's a situation that both the Inter channel and the 1+1 channel and the local regional language should pay about 25 million dollars a year. If you look at, for example, the utility television of a Czech district or a lion's district radio organization, if last year they had a 50 percent discount, this year they're going to pay 25 million. We give them money from the budget. And they pay the Cypriot private company most of this budget money for preparing the transition to digital language! Today, the budget allocated to the utility company is sufficient for one or two hours of speech. As the country moves on to digital language, not just bankrupting, all local broadcasters will be quietly privatized. A third problem that needs analysis. You remember that nearly half a billion dollars were allocated before the elections to help the socially unprotected buy digital - speaking devices. They were purchased. We were informed before the election that all the socially unprotected groups have this digital device. Well, first of all, a lot more people need these digital devices. Secondly, no one explained whether it was necessary and sufficient conditions in the village to receive a digital voice signal in 2015. Because experts say you have to buy another antenna for 500 or 600 dollars for every consumer of digital language. Thus, today it is not clear what is happening as well as what is happening in the citizen’s security system. So we have a procedure for switching to digital language that is controlled by a group of unknown people who are registered in Cyprus. The state does not fully control this situation. We do not understand how this will end in 2015. Maybe 30 percent will get a TV signal and 70 won't get one. So, of course, we should invite experts. And in the session room, we're going to talk about how we're moving to digital language. And I assure you, colleagues, to support these parliamentary hearings as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u168	Thank you. Please register with the factions for the performance. Freedom Union, Kyda. Miroshenko Igor. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u169	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I will complement what the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information has said. Monopolization of the television market and the destruction of regional television companies is inevitable, unless we discuss these issues very seriously in Parliament and solve the problem in fact. It's about Zeonbud, which Mikola Tomenko has already said, it's really strangely not transparent today in the television market, it's in the market for the spread of television digital signals, it's replaced by a state concert called RRT, which broadcasts an analog signal. Private capital was squeezed out by a state television company today and, as you have already learned, it is located in Cyprus. The second question. I've been approached by a lot of regional television companies. Indeed, tariffs for the spread of a digital signal set by a monopoly today are set by Zeonbud. It is estimated by all experts, regardless of political coloring, that it exceeds the standards 5-10 times. This is the end for regional companies, for local television, for district television companies. Well, most importantly, today is threatening, what today is threatening to monopolize the market by Zeonbud television company is the presence in a mandatory package of 32 television channels only those that are loyal to power or are politically engaged and satisfy today's overpowered parties as well as the Bank's. All the opposition companies, as well as the television companies that represent the editorial groups and try to run independent policies, will simply not be included in the mandatory language package and will thus not be given access to objective information by the Ukrainian people. So I very much ask all the national MPs on the one hand to support their electorate, because that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u171	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u172	Please. Mikola Knieżicki. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to address the representatives of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine, to our colleagues in the hall. You know, we really need to get together in the hall and talk about the situation in the radio area. Because not only the companies that won our parties and factions in the elections will stop speaking, there is a big problem with the Gamma company, which supports the Communist Party of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka. There are problems with Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov in Odessa with local companies that are also driven by this Zeonbud in that they won't speak. There's a problem with the radio company Era, but there are problems with other companies. There's the Lion Company, which is. The only child program that shows Ukrainian cartoons will not be on the air. This is an extremely important and responsible thing. I know there's going to be a lot of people in factions who might not even want to discuss it. But we have made a commitment to European society and the new Audiovisual Services Act is among those to be accepted for our signing of the Association Agreement. So let's at least talk about it in the hall. This does not require anything. I want to talk to Elena Bondarenko and the deputies who support Ukrainian cables. You know very well what the situation is and the introduction of digital language actually destroys cable language in Ukraine. We can find compromise here. We can get rid of these white spots in Ukraine that aren't covered in digital language. We can set fair prices. And for existing now national Ukrainian channels, and for local channels, and for channels with different perspectives. All of this can be done. Let us be wise, gather together, and discuss how we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u174	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, I have pressed the "minus" button because I will be. I have one warning. The point is, the chairman of the committee should say that on March 20, such hearings could no longer be organized. So we need to set a date. And basically, and in general, I'm quite sure, the entire faction of the Party of the Regions supports the opinion of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Tomenka, the Head of the Professional Committee, that the State has moved away from this extremely important and important state, and for the national security of the defining process, such as the establishment, implementation of digital standards of speech. The activities of the Television Foundation, which is now being transformed into some kind of business structure, will require a separate review in the session room. And perhaps after these hearings, the creation of a special commission of inquiry. Let me explain. Today, regional media, regional television channels from Lviv and Zaporozhye, from Sum to Sevastopol, are virtually out of work in digital mode. So they're already out of the future. And the politics here is absolutely useless. But here's a party or a party when our voters are deprived of the ability to get a high-quality signal. The Zaporozhye TV company Alex is one of the oldest private stock companies to start speaking in the early 1990s. The labor force, in support of industrial enterprises, did the same. It works, it uses high popularity, it uses high popularity. And she's been deprived today. Instead, there must have been a television company from Kramatarska, who had never been anywhere before, and we have not heard or seen the product of this television. That's why I support you. And I ask the faction of the Party of the Regions to support the proposal to hold such parliamentary hearings with a specific date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u176	All those who wanted to speak. I'll take the floor on this subject, Tomenka. Turn on the microphone. He's a reporter and he has a final word to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, thank you for the discussion and for the importance of the problem that you support us. I want to emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u178	What about the date?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u179	I want to emphasize that it's not really the principle of whether it's May, or whether it's June, we're ready to compromise and we're going to do it on June 5th, as the apparatus tells us that June 5th is an opportunity to do it. Since it doesn't matter when it's done now, it's important to have a professional discussion. Once again, we're set up to involve RTD experts, for example, because it's a state-owned professional institution that's always been involved in spreading the signal. And they're also going to give us, I think, calculations and show us how to maintain state control over Ukrainian radio. We're going to invite international experts who are now actively working on spreading digital signals in other countries. So our offer is June 5th. And I'd like all the factions to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-19-m0.u180	What date do you import? June 5th. May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1258) on Parliamentary hearings on "Implementing Digital Standards of Speech in Ukraine" to be held on June 5 for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:53:38]] For 168 The factions. "For" is 168, the decision is not made. Region Party 24, Parenthood, 70, Vitalia Klicka, 28, Freedom, 34, Company 0, non-fractional, 12. The morning session is closed. Let's continue the session at 4:00.
