ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:03]] There were 375 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel. Let's say hello to her birthday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today. So let's move on to their consideration. The first question is the election of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 20, of the Constitution and articles 4, 5 of the Ukrainian National Council Act on Television and Broadcasting, the issue of electing a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talk is raised. The next order of business is proposed. Give to the head of the Supreme Council Committee for freedom of speech and information for up to 10 minutes. Ask the committee head in five minutes. Take for performances from MPs to 3 minutes each faction. Then make a rating vote with an electronic system in alphabetical order on a stand-alone basis. Upon completion of the rating vote, a vote shall be taken on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio on each candidate separately in the sequence defined by the rating vote. The consideration of the question should be completed after the first successful vote – 226 votes in favour of the appointment of a candidate to the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. Therefore, we are going to consider the question and the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information – Mikoli Volodymirovich Tomenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues! I will inform you that on May 22, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its plenary meeting was unable to select a member of the National Council of Ukraine from 12 candidates for television and radio. And, in accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 20, of the Constitution and article 210 of the Rules of Procedure Act and article 5 of the Nacradu Act, on May 28, we published information in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine about the re-election. On July 2nd, a meeting was held to discuss candidates submitted by public organizations and political parties. The committee had received documents from 10 applicants for this vacant position. Prior to his meeting with the Supreme Council, the Associate Professor of the Institute of Journalism at the University of Kyiv addressed him. Shevchenka, secretary of the National Journalist Association, Victor Nabrusko, who informed in the form of an open letter to the Head of the Supreme Council that he was withdrawing his candidacy because he believed that the approach of Parliament, particularly the majority of parliament, that the members of the Nakrad should be in line with the quotas of a particular political party, was wrong, not democratic and wrong. We were also asked by Vladimir Pachuk to withdraw his candidacy. Thus, at the time of our consideration, we had eight candidates who were offered either by public organizations or by factions as submitting entities. I'm going to read these people to get you to the alphabet: Georgievska Victoria Volodymyrovna is an associate professor of periodic press at the Institute of Journalism of the Kyiv National University, presented by the Communist Party of Ukraine. Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna is a national deputy to previous calls submitted by the All-Ukrainian Social Organization of the Commission of Journalist Ethics. Khurt Kostin Semenović is the head of the government of Internews Ukraine, presented by the Association of Regional Publications of the Social Space. Mikhailuta Alexander Aleksandrovich is the editor of the Social Policy Department of the newspaper Silskie News, the Ukrainian Journalist. Oltarzewski Dmitry Olegovich is an assistant to the Department of Advertising and Public Relations of the Institute of Journalism of Kyiv University. Shewchenka, from the Journalist Initiative Foundation. Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich is an assistant to the People's Deputy, proposed by the Freedom MP. Northern Alexander Volodymyrovich is a senior professor of radio technology at the Kyiv State University of Information and Communication Technologies, from the public organization The All-Ukrainian Association of Television. Sergeyev Gennady Anatoliyovich is the director of the Černovci TV company, an independent association of speakers. During the discussion on these eight candidates, the committee made warnings about three candidates who had submitted documents in a timely manner. But considering that this is not a very serious fault for our committee's national deputies, we decided to send these nominations to you so that the session room would be able to make the right decision. There were also observations regarding the problem of interpreting the law’s requirements in accordance with the term of work in television. Committee members and experts have drawn attention to the fact that we have 3 candidates who do not have a proper internship in television. This is Georgiev's Victoria Volodymyrna, the corresponding number of internships is not available, Mikhailut Alexander Alexander and Altarzewski Dmitry Olegovich. But once again, we followed a democratic and tolerant version, taking into account that they were offered by public organizations and public organizations, they argued that these people could properly serve as members of the Nacrad. We decided that the Supreme Council could make the right decision. Another position, Vladimir Vasilovich. Since we don't see all the candidates for the National Council, I want to apologize for the Supreme Council in front of the candidates for this post. Because the subjective circumstances that did not depend on the committee only today, or yesterday late in the evening, made a decision to consider the matter today. And representatives of the committee's apparatus spent the night calling the candidates for this position. And once again, I want to say that the consideration of personnel issues in the Supreme Council at a meeting of deputies, when there are 226 guests, is a disgrace and is unacceptable. And I want to pay attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council, that we need to determine in advance the timing of the consideration of the issue, to inform those people who are roaming in advance, and that this should take place in a democratic and civilized form. Because a few people did not physically arrive because we had informed them of the fact that the matter was being considered. The committee believes that it would be appropriate if, after two minutes, the candidates for the National Council were to speak, but the decision was taken by the Supreme Council. There may be questions, since these are sufficiently important functions that are assigned to a member of the National Council for Television and Radio. In part, I would like to express my surprise and concern at the fact that the President's Administration has not proposed to the President regarding the fourth candidate from the President since our consideration of our issue. I remind you, we don't have one candidate in Nacradia yet, on the President's quota. We'll be celebrating for three years soon. This is the first time in the history of Ukrainian information space that the vacant position is not filled by the President in such a long time. Since we have problems and discussions about one of the active members of the Nacrada, I will not call it his last name, as the charges may not be confirmed at his address. If, for example, there's some kind of conflict with another member of the National Council, and we don't choose a member of the National Council today, and the President doesn't appoint, so we might have a history of the illegality of the National Council. Because the minimum number of members needed to make decisions is six. Today, there are 6 persons on the National Council. I say that if, for example, the Supreme Council doesn't make an effective decision and there will be problems with any of the Nacrad members, there will be no more. So once again, I ask the President's Administration to prepare such a submission and to have the President send it immediately. Now for the general approach. We've already talked about how the committee has asked public organizations to identify one candidate from the media community so that we can propose an alternative approach, which unfortunately is in the minds of today's parliamentary majority. I am absolutely convinced that the National Council should not work on quotas for parties that are respected or unrespected. The National Council should have people who have authority in the media community, independent people, public activists. Unfortunately, the media community has not been able to agree on a single candidate and we've been offered a number of authoritative people, and so we have a situation that I've stressed: eight candidates, from which we have to choose one candidate. The report is closed, Vladimir Vasilovich, please proceed to the consideration of the issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u3	Honorable deputies. Any questions to the committee head? Yes, yes, I'd like the National Deputies to sign up. Freedom Union, National Deputy Sabi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u5	Please, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u6	Dear reporter! Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wanted to ask you this question: How do you assess the consequences of not choosing a member of the Nacrada if no candidate today has the required number of votes? Because it is known that there are only six members of the Nacrada today, and this is a critical number of people who can make decisions. One member of the Nakradya, Mr. Baranov today is suspected of getting bribes and at any time may be removed from his mandate, criminal implementation violated, and thus the National Council on Television and Radio can become ineffective. That's my first question. And the next question about political engagement is, is it logical that in candidates to the National Council for Television and Broadcasting there are people who have a vivid political color, involvement and no experience in television? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Yuri, I've already spoken my mind. It is as follows: We must have a full, authoritative and independent National Council on Television and Radio. To do that, we have to have a full Nakradya composition of 8 people. Therefore, I have already stressed that the President must immediately appoint a candidate for his quota. In fact, it is desirable to appoint a representative, not a representative of some financial and political media group, but a representative of the public. The Supreme Council should make the right decision. Well, I can see visually that there are enough people in this part of the room today, and so the probability is that the Communist Party candidature is supported. But my approach was and remains that we should live to the point where in the Nacradu, in the National Bank Council, the Court of Auditors will be appointed not by the quota of political parties, but by those who are authoritative, professional, independent and able to perform the function laid down for them. So if it's a quota principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u8	The Fatherland faction, the Lunchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u9	Valerius Lunchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please give my word to my colleague Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u10	Please give it to Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I have a question. Yesterday we voted in the first reading of the Social Broadcasting Act, which was presented by, among other things, the government, and we supported our majority. This law states that. and this is the Euro-Integration Law that the Supervisory Board of Social Broadcasting is appointed by the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio. If we voted in favour of this yesterday in the first reading, is it not appropriate to negotiate with the majority -- and to form the National Council in a way that both representatives of the public organizations and representatives of the political forces, because, as the law says, the opposition ones, were represented there. Because we are now facing the threat that public television, our Euro-Integration Commitments will once again become fiction if the entire National Council is voted by the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u12	When I finish answering the questions of Igor Miroshtnick and Mikola Knieżicki, I will say that my approach is also: first, not the parties should be delegated to the National Council. Second position. Theoretically, considering that we are in a difficult situation of such political opposition, we can find a way out of the following. For example, we have four members of the National Council of the Supreme Council. Given that we are living under an old and new Constitution, where there are no terms "coalition" and "opposition," we can say that, for example, two members of the National Council are offering a majority and two are offering a minority. This does not mean that they offer members of a party or national MPs, that is, they offer from the public, but they have the right to offer. So there would be some, of course, principle of competition in the National Council. Today, there's only competition between media groups, not competition between approaches, alternatives and so on. So if today's vote is voted on by the majority, I think the situation for improvement in the Nacrad will not change radically.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Sit down, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Let's move on to the representations of the MPs, so I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Party of regions, national MP Zuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Oleni Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u15	Please, National Deputy Bondarenko. You have three minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u16	Thank you very much. I would like to say the following about the National Council and what is happening in our information space in Ukraine. You know that I have been a consistent critic in the National Council since 2006, when I came to work in Parliament. I do not like much about the work of the National Council, especially the fact that there is a democraticly shameful list of adapted channels in our country, for example, that we do not have a long-standing list of people who submit to it. license, they've been in line for years. I very much expect that a new member of this team will still be able to change the situation in this body. We're going to help you, we're going to write a new law on television and radio. It will set out very clearly the rules on which the market will play, the rules on which the relations of the State regulator, the viewer and the industry will be implemented, the rules on which they will be able to give impetus, and the development of the industry as a whole. Because, unfortunately, the National Council is currently working under an old bill. And the old bill actually serves as a backdrop for the industry, that is, it prevents it from developing. I would like to express my appreciation to the National Council for Cooperation on this issue, as they are very active in participating in our working group on the drafting of a new law on television and radio broadcasting. Thank them very much. Since this work is constructive, they are working with us on each amendment, and I very much expect that by the beginning of the next autumn session, we will be submitting this document to the Hall. And first of all, of course, I have a good opportunity to turn to the hall right now. I'll wait for your votes, I'll wait for your criticism, I'll count on your support for this document when he enters the hall. This will also be very important for us in terms of our Euro-integration aspirations. Why? Because we are also introducing rules that will enable us to bring national legislation closer to European law. Thanks again. Well, whoever takes 226 votes of support in the hall, I wish you luck. Our position as a faction of the Party of the Regions is Victoria Georgievska. So let's support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u17	Freedom Union, Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u18	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Let's start by analyzing our information space. I've already spoken from this rostrum, I address all of you, distinguished national deputies, colleagues, to the Ukrainians. Today, the information space in Ukraine does not belong to the Ukrainian State, it is occupied. Today, programs that are on Ukrainian television are zinging and agitating, propaganda, and propaganda of the neighboring state. Today, there is no Ukrainian language in Ukrainian information space. There is no Ukrainian history in Ukrainian information space today. Who is responsible for the destruction of Ukrainian space, Ukrainian information space, which is a strategic reserve of Ukraine and is responsible for the security of the country. The National Council on Television and Radio is responsible. Today, only six members of the National Television and Radio Board form essentially the entire information policy of Ukrainian television. No member of the Nakrad on television and radio talk representing opposition parties, and there is no large account representing the Ukrainian people in Nakrad. Today we will choose another member of the Seventh Nakrad. And once again we have a number of candidates, some of them are politically involved, some of them are professionals. I wouldn't want to stop at any of them. But it's very important to say about one candidate. One candidature, which today is the subject of agreements and we have already considered it in this Parliament, between the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions. This is Mrs. Georgievska Victoria Volodymyrna, a person who has not worked on television for a day, I stress, has no understanding of what television and radio talk is. It is offered by the Communist Party, delegates to Nacrad. Mrs. Georgieva Victoria Volodymyrna, she's a press secretary for the Communist Party leader, a press secretary. There haven't been any press secretary on the National Council for Television and Radio. Of course, when we read the declarations by reading the autobiography, today we will find no mistake in Mrs. Georgievsky. But I want to remind you that last time she claimed this position and was successfully failed by this Parliament. In her autobiography, we counted 12 errors. This means that such people are delegated to the National Council for Television and Radio. I have a question for her declaration. Today, in the 2012 declaration, she made twice as much money as she did in 2011, without any change of office, without any additional income. Where did the money come from? Maybe she's being paid by the Communist Party of Ukraine, and she forgot to declare money in 2011? Society, opposition, and ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u20	We are today proposing to the Company and the Party of the Regions to vote not only for one candidate that you have already chosen and you think is the only one that is worthy. And to support other candidates who claim this high office. Because our political faction will support everyone but Mrs. Georgievsky, because press secretary, non-scientist, people who have no relation to television is not the place in Nacrad for television and radio. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u21	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Heratschenko. National Deputy Heratchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, allow me, on behalf of our faction, to address you first. This is an extremely important vote for the Ukrainian Parliament. And we ask that we do not lose the parliamentary reputation before voting article 26, paragraph 2, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and announce to everyone who has not personally signed or who is not present in the Chamber that we do not have any of you under the buttonage during such an important vote. You know, Mr. Head and dear colleagues, it's a shame that we haven't had a discussion in this session room with you about the professionalism of one or the other organs. On the High Council of Justice, I've sent someone's son-in-law with you, they say. And someone's birthday. In CLTC today, the same question about the professionalism of certain persons, but they are relatives of something there. We are with you, chiefly, to have representatives of the oligarchs or other political forces present in all the cities, while the state, in the meantime, flies into the chasm of non-professionalism in all spheres. And now we have the Nacradu with you, for which this Hall voted in 2010. Please listen to who you voted for at the time. And the opposition then warned you that you were sending garbage and garbage experts, real estate specialists. Today, these garbage experts, who had garbage factories, have led to corruption against them. They're under the story of bribe corruption, $50,000 that they've been hanging out with the conspirators. And this is a disgrace not only to Nakradya, but also to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who, laughing at herself, made such an important decision — who to delegate to Nacrada. Now the Communist Party of Ukraine, which has long become the main earner in this room, sends a man who doesn't, again, have no job in this field and in this field. What our political power insists on. The Supreme Council has a reputation to care for, and for once in your life, you have to think about having professional people work there. In the days of Kuchma, Nacrad worked among the leaders, there, factions, delegates, and representatives of the public. And it is very important for us to delegate on behalf of the Supreme Council a person who will represent the expertise, the profile, the professionalism and who will actually add a reputation to both the Nacradi and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How many times are we going to delegate there: the main thing is that our own, the main thing, be trusted, the main thing, so that we may properly vote and rightly vote?Oh, my God! It's you and me, if we vote that way, that we're bringing this country into the chasm of non-professionalism. And that's why we're going to support those people supported by the profession, primarily journalists. Among the 10 contenders, at least a few people are like that. We're also speaking for gender equality, we think it's important to support a woman who's also in the picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u23	The Fatherland faction, the Dirov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u24	Dirov Anatoly. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u25	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! That's a really important question, so I want to go to minority factions right now. We have decided not to vote in favour of government bills until the issue of dispossessing our colleagues' mandates has been resolved. But I ask you to take part in the rating vote and show that we support those professionals who are sitting in this room, even though we respect them and respect that we have promoted them ourselves. The other one. The role of the National Council is really great, because C is not just the control of the television information space that all of us are in opposition to. And now many authorities are suffering, and even those who sometimes do not have an attitude have a bearing on television companies. I've already said that with the adoption of the new Social Broadcasting Act, which was passed by the government, which we voted for yesterday in the first reading, the National Council is going to appoint the governing bodies of the social radio, which are several channels other than UT-1, the National Radio. Thus, the role of this body in our social life is extremely great. I therefore ask you to take a responsible political view of this. For example, I know Mrs. Georgievski and she taught my son at the university. But I realize that if I vote politically for it, only half of society will be represented on our National Council. So I urge you to be a normal balance in representing all political interests. I ask you to vote for those people sitting here in the front row, I know these people, and I want to say a few words about them. This is a rating vote, you have the right to vote in a few, I remind you, not necessarily for one. Alexander Northyuk, a specialist engineer, has no professional engineer in the National Council, worked in many television companies, was vice president of the RRT Concert, has a lot of publications on digital language, and this is a very painful problem in our lives. Olga Gerasimük, a brilliant journalist, whom you all know was a colleague of yours, and now a colleague of mine, worked in this room, has social views. Gennady Sergeyev, who represents the National Academy, is sorry, the National Association of Languages, many local companies that work well. There is also Taras Osaulenko, with whom we worked together at the National Council, who cared about international cooperation, I know him as an expert. Unfortunately, it was only yesterday evening that they decided to vote and did not let people know that the vote would take place. So Constantine Qurt and Altarzewski, who were supposed to be here, just weren't invited here. So we even had the idea with our colleague Miroshnichenko to postpone the vote. Because it's also wrong and it's not the same when not everyone can say it. I'm convinced that those who are sitting in this room, other people, are probably experts, too. But those I called, I know as very strong and high-quality professionals, like Qurt and Altarzewski, who have not yet arrived. So please take part in the rating vote and take into account both the responsibility for the future and for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u27	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Oksana Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to point out by going back to what was said in this rostrum by Mr. Tomenko, really, as long as we dream of an ideal order that will allow us to put the National Council to an end as we all wish, transparently, clearly, without political influence, it's probably good, but you know what they call a better enemy of good. And time is not waiting for us. Believe me, as a member of the National Council in the past, I know exactly what this job is made of. Today, time does not really wait for us. And events follow their ranks. The National Council, until it has the opportunity to work today, to have a quorum for decision-making, we're just going to break down the main issue -- it's a digital language in Ukraine. Digital language in Ukraine, as many experts present in this room today know, is an important issue and is coordinated primarily by international conventions. If we lose this opportunity, today people are already at the coordinates of geography, our borders are watching more and they know the television that is in Romania, Poland, and they don't look at it again, and I want to emphasize that really the National Council is not just a frequency distribution, it's not just a license license, it's every day a job. The work is designed primarily to ensure that our young, our children’s souls are not filled with dirt and blood, but rather to show the normal programs that form today’s ideological pillar of the nation. Believe me, we will never be able to be economically effective unless we are spiritually rich. And that's why we can't ignore that. I want to emphasize once again, let's not politicize the election of a member of the National Council. I remember myself in this room when there were really a lot of misgivings. And today, that candidate we're putting up is a conscientious and professional person. Let's all unite together to make a wise decision, so that the National Council of the Ends will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm asking you to sit down, I'm going to put all the candidates on the ratings vote right now. Please prepare for the vote. Everybody sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the vote on motive. Let's go. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to an alphanumeric vote on a stand-alone basis, as you and I have agreed. We clearly follow the rules that we agreed on. The lines and everything will be after the vote. No, it's not. I'm going to name my father's name, and you're going to have to decide for the support of a particular candidate. I'm asking for your attention. I'm betting on the candidate's rating vote, Georgia Victoria Volodymyrna. People's deputies please vote in person for everyone. Please vote. [[10:38:34]] For 241 Against - 1, holding – 2, not voting – 156. Please, by the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] After considering the question? Region Party - 191, Fatherland - zero, Vitaly Klicka - zero, Freedom - zero, Company - 32, non-fractional - 18. Next candidate, rating vote: Gerasimuk Olga Volodymyrna People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[10:39:31]] For-26 Against - 2, held - 37, not voted - 336. Factions please: The Party of Regions is 11, Fatherland is one, Vitaly Klicka is zero, Freedom is zero, the Company is zero, non-fractional is 14. Next, the next candidature, Qurt Konstantin Semenovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:17]] For the five of us. Against 3, held – 44, not voted – 349. The factions. Next comes the candidature: Mikhailuta Alexander Alexandrovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:40:49]] Z-11. Against five. We're holding on to 40. They didn't vote, 346. The factions. Next candidate, pay attention! – Altarzewski Dmitry Olegovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:22]] For the four of us. Against the 4th. We're holding on to 49. They didn't vote - 347. The factions. Next nominee: Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovic. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:41:50]] For the four of us. Against five. We're holding on to 53. There was no vote – 341. The factions. Next candidate: Northern Alexander Volodymyrovich. People's deputies, please vote. Vote in person! [[10:42:19]] For -8 Against the 4th. We're holding on to 53. There was no vote – 338. The factions. The last candidate on the list is Sergei Hennadyyyevich. People's deputies, please vote. The vote will end, and then the motive will be. [[10:42:49]] For-22. Against 6, held – 44, not voted – 331. The factions. Dear National Deputies! Now we move on to the final vote, and the first one will be the candidature of Georgia's Victoria Volodymyrna, which. Don't stop working! There's a vote coming! Go! Go! Don't bother! [[B in m in s a l in]] Learn to work properly. Read the Rules! [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. We move on to the final vote, and the first vote will be the vote of Victoria Volodymyr of Georgia. Georgievski, who received the highest votes in the process of the rating vote. That's why I'm asking for your attention. I am voting for a proposal to appoint a member of the National Television and Radio Board of Georgia, Volodymyrna. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:44:31]] For 245 Against the 2nd? held – 1, not voted – 157. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 196, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 17. So, Georgia's Victoria Volodymyrna is a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio, and let's welcome her with the assignment. Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you that (please note) the Vitalia Klitschka faction and the Motherland faction took a break yesterday at 5 p.m.: 30 minutes. No questions were considered, no statements were made, and I closed the evening session at 5:45 p.m. They stated, Sobolev Sergey, that the opposition would not take part in any vote and would not accept it after that statement. They now say 30 minutes to consult and announce the application. So, as a statement, I'd like to make a statement. I'll give you a five-minute break according to the Rules, and as you need to, make a statement. In this room. Enough of this cool negotiation, let's do it all the time, and I'm asking everyone to do it. I'll give you five minutes, make an application. According to the Rules. Read the Rules. Stop teaching us. Make a statement with everyone. I'll call it a five-minute break. And as a statement has to be made, I provide a rostrum in the presence of all the deputies: both the opposition and the majority. I'm asking everyone to stay put, because we're going to continue the session. Invite all the national deputies to the session room. Stop walking on breaks. After a month and a month and a half, we block the rostrum and don't make any laws. Stop! Ladies and gentlemen, we will resume the session in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnicka. How will we view it? Anyone who supports a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[10:58:54]] For 185 Against – 7, held – 0 did not vote – 210. Decision taken. The factions. Please, Yuri Romanovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as in article 6 of the Central Electoral Commission Act, it is stated that the Supreme Council terminates the mandate of the members of the Central Election Commission at the request of the President of Ukraine. Article 30 of the Central Electoral Commission Act defines one reason for the permanent termination of the mandate of a member of the CEC to reach the age of 65. In addition, article 23 of the State Service Act establishes a maximum age for public service service — 65 years. Thus, the President of Ukraine complied with the provisions of the CLTC and the State Service Act and filed an application for the termination of the mandate of a member of the CLV Volodymyr Shapwal in connection with his 65-year-old age. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u32	The committee’s request for a report is given to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of State construction, David Zwania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u33	About the Project Regulation (registration 2197a) The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 5 June 2013, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, discussed the submission by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, on the timely termination of the terms of office of the Central Electoral Commission, Vladimir Mikolaiovic, Shapovalova, in connection with the achievement of the 65-year-old age and the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the early termination of the powers of the Central Electoral Commission (review No. 2197a). The draft regulation proposes to suspend the mandate of a member of the central electoral commission, Vladimir Shapovala, as a result of the achievement of the 65-year-old age. Paragraph 21 of the first article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall include the appointment and termination of the powers of the members of the Central Electoral Commission at the request of the President of Ukraine. In this paragraph 2, part four of article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission provides that the achievement of the 65-year term by a member of the electoral commission is the basis for the early termination of its terms of office. At the same time, part nine of this article of the Act states that when the grounds for the early termination of the terms of office of the President of Ukraine enters a 30-day deadline for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the suspension of the term of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee supported the submission by the majority of votes of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of the submission of the President of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the terms of office of the Central Electoral Commission, Vladimir Shapovalov, in connection with the 65th anniversary, and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the timely termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration number 2197a) on the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u34	Have a seat. Dear National Deputies! I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u35	I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? And there's no short-term procedure. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (No.2197a) to terminate the term of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. May I have the people's deputies personally to vote? [[11:03:21]] For 241 Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 152. Decision taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain seated! You want fights? There won't be a fight. I'm asking the faction of the majority to step aside, please step aside, there will be no fight. [[B in m in s a l in]] There won't be a fight, I say again! Honorable deputies. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions have taken a break, I'll give you two minutes for your statement, and we'll continue the session. How much to give? Three minutes. Please, who's making the application? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u37	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Head, what is now going on in the Parliamentary Hall? First. On Tuesday and Wednesday, when the opposition voted in favour of continuing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of each plenary day, your majority and you have not passed any European integration bill. One bill that has been tabled and voted together is that law that applies to European integration. The government and most of them haven't passed any European law in two days, but a fake election scenario is now under way in 2015. This is the main task: to appoint a new member of the Central Electoral Commission, to choose a new Head of the Central Electoral Commission. And it's going to be like in 2004, when one vote at a time, and the results of the vote were recognized by the Central Electoral Commission, quite different. We think it's Victor Yanukovic's attempt to steal the votes of the Ukrainians because of the illegal change of head of the Central Electoral Commission. In particular, I would like to point out that once you voted in favour of taking down the Head of CEVK Shapwala, he wrote a statement from the Head of Parliament. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the committee stated: Shapoval's statement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not a lie. It's the same as it isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u38	I have not made such a statement, nor have I ever made such a statement, nor should I lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u39	And there's no filing from the faction members.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u40	That's a lie! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u41	Just as there is no statement from the President that the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been submitted by factions. There's no Whispering statement, you can't read, Party of Regions. But read the transcript personally of the Fishman, where he said that the man asked to be released, but there is no statement. Liars and don't learn, you're here! That is why we demand that political consultations be held immediately in the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order not to allow the people of Ukraine to steal the elections in 2015. You didn’t make it in the fourth, you won’t make it in the fifteenth. Mr. Head, you're in your room to find out the order of the day! Where are European laws? Why do you want to assign the head of the CIA to a violation of the law? And how will Parliament continue to work? We're asking for advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u42	Deputies! No statement is needed to address the issue. There's a President's presentation. A draft Decision on the appointment of the Bastard as a member of the Central Electoral Commission is under consideration. As they block, they say I'm going to go out and put the vote in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] It won't be the other way around. Block it, block it! The registration number 2198a is considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll go to the hall and put it to a vote on the appointment. Deputies! Yesterday there were two breaks we were discussing all the questions, the dinner was a day's work, I'm working on the agenda. And please, let's talk about this right now, and vote who wants to – vote who doesn't want to – doesn't vote. You said not to look at it, we will no longer vote. Then give it to someone who wants to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u43	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u44	Go ahead. We were thinking, you didn't have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u45	There was no law enforcement. We demand according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u46	That's the question. You've been criticizing me: what is it that I'm going through with the C.V.C.C. election? You pick up all the stenographers. How much can you criticize me for? I'm acting strictly under the law, strictly under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u47	According to the law, a member of the CEC shall be submitted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u48	I did the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u49	There is no parliamentary decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u50	The president made an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u51	He has no right to do so without Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u52	He's right, he's entitled under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u53	Read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u54	This is the national MP Sergey Sobolev stated that we will not accept in frequent and no vote. Then sit down and listen to what the other part of the hall will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u55	Have consultations with factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u56	I've been conducting.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u57	In particular, it's on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished national MPs, do you copy? I'm going to put it to a vote because the situation, you see, is what? So I'm going to put a question to the vote on the appointment right now. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the draft Order on Assignment of the Bastard, Decree No. 2198a, as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Decision on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[11:14:57]] For 236 Against it, 1 / 1 They held on to 0. No votes, 149. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 191, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 32, "Afterfractional" – 13. Let's congratulate the bastard on his appointment as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] I ask the faction leaders to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I invite you to the rostrum for the oath of the bastard Alexander Ljubimovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u60	I, Kopilenko Alexander Ljubiovic, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, be honest, subjective and impartial in resolving the issues that belong to the commission, ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Let us wish you success in robots and honest work. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law is under consideration. Invite the people's deputies into the hall. They took an oath. Please invite the national MPs. I don't see any opposition. I can see that now. Honourable National Deputies, the draft law (registration number 2971, 2971-1, 2971-d) on the re-election of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Supreme Council VII is being considered in connection with the implausibility of re-establishing the vote and the results of the elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012. It's an inclusion in the agenda, I think we'll talk about it here. I'll put it to the vote in order. I'm asking for your attention! Sit down! Prepare to vote! Don't run around the hall! Vote with your personal cards! I'll put it to a vote, we'll discuss it when we're considering every law, and we'll talk about it. A draft law (No. 2971) on the re-election of Ukraine’s national deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine VII is under consideration to convene in some one-maned constituencies in connection with the implausible establishment of the vote and the results of the election of Ukraine’s national deputies on October 28 for inclusion in the agenda. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, when voting a proposal for inclusion in the agenda is included. Since there are alternatives, all three should vote on the inclusion in the agenda at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u63	So I'm betting, honourable national deputies, I'm putting draft laws: 2971, 2971-1, 2971-d to be included in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:51:45]] For 229 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 154. Decision taken. Why the factions if we didn't vote? But you didn't vote. The factions. Region Party - 189, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0. See? Ukraine's 30, non-fractional 10. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to review the draft Law (No. 2924) amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Maritime Ports of Ukraine (as regards mandatory port regulations) to include the matter in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:53:22]] For 233 Against-1, held-0, didn't vote-153. Decision taken. The factions. A draft Act (No.2435a) is under consideration to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the return of State control and the production of state-owned documents and forms that require the use of special elements of protection. I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:54:24]] For 241 Against-0, held-1, didn't vote-147. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm offering to work today before the agenda is completed. Do you understand the offer? I'd like you to support the people's deputies, and I'd like you to vote. [[11:55:11]] For 242 I made a mistake, I pressed "restraint," so I pulled out, I managed to get the card out. Against - 1, held - 0, not voted - 147. Decision taken. Let's see the factions who want to work. Region Party - 194, Parenthood - 0, Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Companies - 31, non-fractional - 17. Thank you. Did you vote easy? That's it, thank you. The draft Act No. 2373a on amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on State Guarantees is under consideration. People's deputies are requested to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:57:03]] For 241 Against - 1, held - 1, not voted - 147. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National MPs, there's a proposal, we've been doing a lot of breaks today, working without interruption at the morning session until 14 o'clock. Thank you for your support. A draft Act (2404a) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 on state-owned coal companies. For inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. We'll talk about it, we'll talk about it. Here comes the vote. [[11:58:08]] For 239. Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 151. Decision taken. Let's move on, let's talk about it. A draft Act (2101a) is under consideration to amend some of Ukraine’s laws to encourage investment. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:59:02]] For 242 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 149. Decision taken. The draft Act (No. 2218a) amending paragraph 5 of Section VI of the Final Position Act of Ukraine "On Ukrainian Seaports" (for port sector reform) is being introduced for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:59:50]] For 243 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 148. Decision taken. The factions. The draft Act (Registration No. 2265a) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (increasing expenditure on the maintenance of the State institution National Institute for Heart and Court Surgery of the Name Amos National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine) is being submitted for consideration for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[12:00:59]] For 242 Against -0, held -0, did not vote - 146. Decision taken. Go vote, or I'll be setting up businesses right now. So we're in the agenda, we're going to look into it, you're going to have it. The draft Decree 2106a on the 50th anniversary of the assignment of the village (is such a village in Ukraine one) is under consideration. Happiness in the Luhansk region of the city’s status Please, people's deputies, I've been asked by a very territorial community to put this in order of the day. Please vote for the people's deputies and the opposition. Vote. [[12:02:14]] For 239. Against 0, held – 1, not a vote – 144. Decision taken. The draft Regulation 2128a is being considered -- the definition of the 1120th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Uzhgrad. For inclusion in the agenda. I think the opposition will support it. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:02:56]] For 242 Against zero, holding – 1, not voting – 139. Decision taken. Factions: The Party of the Regions is 194, Fatherland is zero, Vitaly Klicka is zero, Freedom is zero, Ukraine is 30, non-fractional is 18. The draft Decree No. 2333a on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Slovenia and the Slovenian region of the Donetsk region from German-Fashistic invaders for inclusion in the agenda is under consideration. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:04:02]] For 241 Zero, zero, zero, no vote, 140. Decision taken. The factions. Decision taken. Well, I think Lesa Ukraine will unite the Supreme Council. We are considering the draft Decree No. 2305 (a) on honoring the memory of the Forest of Ukraine in connection with centuries from the day of its death for inclusion in the agenda. To the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote, for inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:05:11]] For 241 Against 0. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 138. Decision taken. You don't need factions? The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 191, "The Fatherland" has 1, "The Hit of Vitalia Klicka" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, "The Ukraine Company is 30, "The Postfactional" – 19. A draft Decision is under consideration. There's no motive. Read the rules, you teach me all the time! There's no such thing! We're looking at the draft Decree No. 2240a: marking the 50th anniversary of the Donetsk Refrigeration Plant, now the Public Shareholder Society of Nord, for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:06:42]] For 229 Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote - 145. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 190, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, Postfraction – 9. Let us now consider the questions of the laws of first reading. Huh? Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree is under consideration. What number? 42. 43? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, issue, is under consideration. to mark the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Donbas from German-Fashistic invaders for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:08:32]] For 241 Against 0, holding – 1, not voting – 133. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 193, Fatherland – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 18. The draft Act (No. 2290a) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (restructuring budgetary debt) is under consideration. How Can I View It? What do you want? [[B in m in s a l in]] Why are you so full if you don't vote for the law? [[B in m in s a l in]] The one who supports the reduced procedure is the offer, vote. [[12:09:42]] For 203 Against - 2, held - 0, not voted - 170. Decision taken. I am asking for a report from the Ukrainian national deputy Valery Pavlovich Omelchenk. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u64	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The draft is designed to address in a comprehensive manner the issue of the legislative settlement of the application of the actual budgetary debt restructuring mechanism for the defined expenditure of the State budget, which arose on 1 January 2013 with the application of the Financial Bill Institute. The bill was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Many suggestions were made. So a working group was set up to include the Ukrainian National Deputies and members of the government, who worked together and agreed on the final draft of the bill, taking into account all the proposals. In fact, it is a very effective and very necessary mechanism for the State, since the rule regulates the restructuring of the actual budgetary debt at the expense of the State budget. The draft law provides for the completion of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 by article 22 of this content. Grant the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine the right to restructure the budgetary debt that arose on 1 January 2013 and the budgetary liabilities of the recipients of the budget, which were collected and left unpaid in 2012, by issuing the treasury services of the budget, financial treasury bills. Grant the authorities responsible for the treasury service of the budget on the basis of the conclusion of the relevant supervisory authority that the value of the added tax is to be reimbursed from the budget to the payer of the tax he has filed with such a controlling authority for the selection of the method of reimbursement from the budget of the value added tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u65	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u66	The financial notes for the amount of the budget compensation indicated in the conclusion of the "financial treasury bill". To establish that financial treasury bills are issued within five years, with a yield of 5 percent. Paragraph 2 of new article 22 suggests that this content be corrected. "The amounts of debt and liabilities recorded in part one of this article and the value added tax payable in part two of this article shall be equal, divided into equal parts, each of which shall be subject to treasury bills and to payment periods of 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years. The payment of income by financial notes is made at their expense. The register of financial notes listed in this article is carried out by the State Treasury Service of Ukraine. The payment of any agreed financial commitment payable to the State budget of Ukraine by means of a submission for payment will not earlier be due to the payment period set out in the bill of lading of the body carrying out the treasury service of the budget, the financial treasury bill issued in accordance with Part Two of this article shall be effected in accordance with the order set out in the Tax Code of Ukraine. I believe that the implementation of this legislative act will have a positive impact on the expenditure of the State budget, which will contribute to the effective provision of the conditions for the application of the*** financial bills, to the formulation of the budgetary debt incurred on 1 January 2013. The implementation of the bill does not require additional public and local budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill and accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat. A report by Eugenia Borisovich Geller, head of the Committee on Budgets Your thoughts and suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Issues at its session considered a bill amending the Law on the State Budget for 2013 under number 2290a, submitted by the national deputy, Omelchenko Valerij Pavlovich. The application of the financial bill is governed by the Tax and Budget Codes. So today, there are legislative grounds for making the proposed changes to the State Budget Act. While the application of promissory notes in the budget process has risks of lowering monetary accounts and weakening financial discipline, the temporary introduction of promissory notes in the context of significant budgetary debt may address the issue of repayment. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that an expert opinion of the government is needed in order to make a balanced decision on the bill. The Ministry of Finance supports the adoption of the bill. However, the bill needs to clarify certain provisions to ensure that budgetary and tax standards are harmonized and that they comply with regulatory and technical requirements that do not affect its content and budgetary indicators. In fact, it is suggested that the title of the bill be clarified. Insert in a new edition section I, paragraph 2, and delete section II, paragraph 2. In addition, it is suggested that the revenue of treasury bills be clearly determined at a rate of 5 percent rather than at a rate not exceeding 5 percent, as proposed in the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted such a decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 2290 based on a first reading review to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law with proposals made in the committee's letter of conclusion. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Apparatus, when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Bill when it is adopted, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarification relating to the approved Committee of Decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up for factions. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, And I'm going to give the People's Deputy a minute, because he's still asking questions. People's Vice-Deputy Kyle, Freedom Union. Please. People's deputy of the Marches, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u70	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm talking to you as an older person, well, it's not good when you're breaking the Rules and making a decree on the refrigerator out of the voice. You can't do that for your age. Don't do this. Under this law, Janukovič’s regime introduces in his money bills, which he wants to cover his debt to the citizens of the country and to the local communities that arose on January 1, 2013. This means that this authority is already bankrupt, and that's why the government of Azarov is blocking the local budgets at the Treasury level, pushing the country into social protests. They have all the figures for Ivano-Frankivsky, where on July 1, 2013, in the State Treasury, about 14 million dollars, although the money was in the city's budget. For a week now, Stry has been on strike by city - run utility workers who are unable to pay their wages. The situation in other cities of the country is no better than is known from media reports. Conclusion one: The local budgets today are held hostage by the Janukovich family’s appetites and the Donetsk Olympic Party of Regions, which is running low. In fact, the government of Azarov is hand-in-hand making the distribution of money made by the communities. Therefore, not the city’s heads and local councils, but Azarov himself is responsible for the roads, for the non-renovated schools today, for the kindergartens in Ivano-Frankivsk, Chernig, Ternopolis, Poltava or Sumah. The introduction of promissaries is a legally sound mechanism for the budget sink. And so the next step in Janukovic's regime instead of promissory notes is to put product cards in place of pensions and wages. The way out is the Freedom faction requires the immediate introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Changes to the Budget Code to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u71	Party of regions, National Deputy Greenewecki. Please, National Deputy Gregory Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP, Smitshu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! According to the state of the economy that is today in Ukraine, and you know, Ukraine is not the only country that is in a difficult economic state in the European community, so the government has to act consistently from the situation that I think has occurred in our country. So one way out of this is the way we've discussed this bill in the last month. And I think it's a very compromise decision between the government and those who have to get some sort of accounting tool in the end, that's the bill. And the right thing is that the bills, the treasury bills that are going to be issued, they have the proceeds. And this revenue part, if this were 5 percent of the European community, you know that these banks that could provide funding for the company would be very happy. But unfortunately, in our country, this is, in my opinion, halfway, because the solution to the debt issue is right, it's timely. And we need to adopt this bill today not only as a basis, but as a whole, because businesses are waiting for these mechanisms. But at the same time, I'm going to the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance: you can't delay the fact that commercial banks in the first half of the year have more than 10 percent profit in terms of this year, 2012. So 50 billion more money banks in the middle of the year, and at the same time, the real economy, you know where it is. What accounted for this? Because banks are giving entrepreneurs very high interest rates -- that's 25 or more. So it's time for me, the National Bank, to intervene and together with the Ministry of Finance in commercial banks in order to appease them, and allow entrepreneurs, in the end, to finance the real sector. Please support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u75	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, it is clear that this bill is another attempt to extend the financial bills as a way of calculating the VAT debt. The Cabinet of Ministers, under the direction of the Party of Regions, has managed to increase one of the economic indicators of our state. Unfortunately, that's not the indicator that's worth increasing, I mean the level of debt from the added cost of the tax. In fact, it's the taxpayer's money, which is being used by a government that is trying to delay the total bankruptcy of the state. This money is used as a free loan that companies are forced to give. The proposed bill allows for a 5 - year 5 - year 5 - year budget for VAT debts. It is clear that immediately after the adoption of the bill, there will be intense pressure on taxpayers, who will be advised to choose the exact way to pay the added tax. At the same time, 5 percent of the income, taking into account the level of real inflation, will in fact result in depreciation of funds that are illegally held and charged by the State. Five years in 2018, there will be nothing left of this authority, and its successors, honourable colleagues, will have to deal with the enormous array of promissory notes that will need to be calculated. And I think that's going to be a pretty large amount of soul promissory notes for an unrealistic debt. Clearly, the Party of Regions lives only today and is not interested in what will happen to the country at the end of their rule. Dear friends, it is not possible to talk about economic growth and enforce restructuring at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u77	Thank you. They'll be swearing at me, no one's saying the same thing. I'll give you guys a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill at all, but to support the proposal of the head of the budget commission to vote on this law as a whole is a crime, I emphasise, it is impossible to vote for it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u79	Hit Vitalia Calla, People's Deputy Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u80	Dear people's deputies, every week of the planning week, opening the agenda of the day session, I have no doubt that I am familiar with the law there, it's the bill of bills. Judging from the pressure exerted on MPs by the requirement to enact such laws. Is it possible that there is only one problem in Ukraine to introduce promissory notes? Obviously, there is no economic problem in Ukraine, which is the fourth quarter in a row. Clearly, there is no problem with the investment climate in Ukraine, so not only foreign investors, national investors are leaving Ukraine. Clearly, there is no problem with budget deficits and debt in Ukraine, so Ukraine cannot leave a dozen countries with the most sovereign debts, with the highest risks. Obviously, there are no balance - of - payments problems in Ukraine, so the only way to keep the rate is to make a huge multibillion - dollar loan each year. For the sake of complete happiness, Ukraine lacks promissory notes. If someone has such a misdemeanor on a bill, I have an offer: Instead of this law, I have a special law for those who push the Bill on Bills. In this law, let's implement the wish of a well-known actor of Soviet cinema, "that all your lives you will receive with promissory notes."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u81	One minute, National Deputy Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u82	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The bill, which we are currently considering, demonstrates the completely professional incompetence and incompetence and inadequacy of the government of Azarova-Arbusov. We're told that we have to eliminate budget debt. The amount of this debt is 4 billion dollars. What do we see instead? See today’s press releases. In 5 months, 4 billion dollars of oil products sold in Ukraine were not paid. Why Not Payed? Because these oil products sell companies that are close to the newly discovered oligarch Kurchenk. That's the answer to the question, where did the billions buy the Correspondent and other media and so on? I mean, they bring in the black oil products themselves, they don't pay taxes, they put money in their pockets, they put it in people's pockets, and they put it in paper that you can go to one place with. So I firmly oppose the adoption of this law in general, Volodymyr Vasilovich, for the stenography and for the retirement of the government of Azarov-Arbusov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u83	I understand that you agree on the basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u84	Against, against, on the basis and in general, against.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u85	The discussion is over. I ask the deputies to take their seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2290a) amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 (restructuring budgetary debt) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the committee's proposal in mind. People's deputies, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u86	You're breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u87	Okay. I gave you the rostrum and you were all heard. [[12:28:53]] For 246 Against 6, held – 1, not voted – 123. Decision taken. Factions please: Region Party – 198, Fatherland – 1, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 29, non-fractional – 18. The draft Act (No. 2342) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration. Wait a minute, I'll listen to you, I can't talk and I can't listen. (for the financing of state registration of business entities) How do MPs want to address this issue? I ask you to vote. Anyone for a reduced procedure, please vote. I'll listen to you, I'll listen to you. [[12:30:17.]] For 206 Against - 2. Hold on to 0. There was no vote – 168. Decision taken. I'm asking Deputy Dry to come over here and figure out: What do you vote for two there? Get out of the way! What is it? We agreed to vote in person or not?Oh, my God! I beg you, Ukrainian National Deputy Pressman Alexander Semenović. You have two minutes to report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u88	Good afternoon, dear friends, the main purpose of the draft law is to finance the transfer of functions from the state registration of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs from local authorities to Ukredrzejestre. So far, government registration of business subjects is being carried out in executive authorities and local self - government. However, since July 1, 2013, such functions have been transferred to the Ukrainian State Registration Service under legislation. In order to ensure the transfer of functions from the national registration of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs from local authorities to Ukdrjestrestre need to take a number of measures that require funding from the state budget, including the maintenance of 1 000 540 state registrars of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs, the allocation of premises for the placement of state registrars, the provision of state registrars with computer technology and furniture. In connection with this draft of my law, it is intended to increase expenditure from the general budget of the state budget to 122 million dollars. Among these are the current spending costs of 101 million,426,000 dollars of capital expenditure of 20. Nine hundred and twenty-nine thousand dollars. Failure to enact this law will lead to the failure to implement the function of State registration of business entities by the Ukdrjreestreistre of July 1, 2013, and to comply with the requirements of the law accordingly. The draft law was accepted without the attention of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat. A report by Eugenia Borisovich Geller, head of the Committee on Budgets Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 3 July considered Bill 2342a. As the author has already stated, the bill proposes to increase the revenue and expenditure of the general budget of the State budget by 122.4 million dollars to ensure the proper execution of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs from 1 July this year. The bill is balanced by the state budget's income and expenditure. In line with the general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the purpose of making an informed decision on the project's proposals, it is appropriate to reach an appropriate conclusion from the government. The Ministry of Finance has no comment on this bill. It should be noted that the Law of May 21, 2013, changed the state budget. In addition, on July 2, the Supreme Council adopted bill 2217a on amending the State Budget Act 2013 and today a similar bill can be adopted. before the draft law is considered. Therefore, the budgetary indicators of Bill 2342a need to be clarified in line with the changes adopted by the Supreme Council before considering the bill. Such refinements are necessary to ensure that the State Budget figures are balanced. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Issues decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2342a to be adopted on a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the committee's proposals to this bill on clarifying the summary figures on the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is responsible for the drafting of such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u91	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u92	the text and addenda to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u93	People's deputies please sign up from factions for discussion. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, ask yourself a simple question. We don't have 122 million dollars of kids? And a year later, it's 250 million dollars. Did the government propose to perform a new function that had not previously been performed in Ukraine? What, the registration of enterprises, the premises, is only introduced on July 1st? This was not done in the executive branch? They've been doing it. What is the need for additional funds? There are people, most of them were in the system of government, some of them were in local self-government, a small part. Make a simple decision. Take away the people who were involved in the public administration system today, take away the premises, take away the equipment, and hand over justice to the local authorities. I want to stress that the country's budget gap is growing. In June the budget went down. My estimate is that the budget's share of income is minus 10 percent. And instead of saving on every single penny, instead of cutting the numbers, we do waste. And there's a proposal not to support it, and the government has the ability to switch personnel and equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u95	Get out of here! The question is discussed. Go. Stay out of this! Party of regions. We'll be back! National Deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u96	National Deputy Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u98	Please, Miroshnichenko, come in. Let's finish the question. I'll get it! I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this bill, because our colleagues here have called on us not to vote for it. But I would like to inform you that as of July 1, this year, there may actually be a problem with the registration of business entities. And it's about the interests of our constituents, our distinguished colleagues. And if we don't allow you to finance state registers now, we're actually going to leave the whole direction of registering business subjects unfunctioning. Therefore, it is perfectly correct to propose to a committee, taking into account their suggestions, to adopt this law on a basis and in general. In this way we will show you a conscience, since we are finishing our work, and for a few months our national registers will be out of order, and people will not be given the opportunity to register business subjects. Please exercise your responsibility and vote for the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u100	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u101	Mihalchisin!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u102	Mikhalchi's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are witnessing a very arbitrary and arbitrary treatment of the Rules. Because the bill that we are currently discussing has already been considered conceptually similar to that in this sessional room on June 18, this year, at the registration number 2259a. With regard to this bill, which was drafted by Mr. Pressman, with whom we had a discussion on individual provisions, the bill has several features. First, he kills local self-government. Because it transfers the functions of state registration of business entities from local self - government authorities to the Ministry of Justice. Secondly, I have a question to ask the authors of the administrative reform, in which this is obviously being done. What did they think when forecasting the 2013 budget? Did they not know that, as of July 1, this year, there would be insufficient funds to finance this newly created registration service? It also raises serious concern about the method of financing additional public budget expenditure at the expense of the additional revenues of the National Bank of Ukraine. I am reminding you that this thing before the National Bank of Ukraine’s State Budget already has a debt of 16 billion dollars. Then there is doubt as to whether another 122 million dollars for the Ministry of Justice should be financed from this very source. Then the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union is strongly opposed to the arbitrary practice of violating the Rules. Because this bill should be considered if it was governed by law until the next session of the Supreme Council, because it had already been rejected in the same way as on June 18, this year. Secondly, we stand against the destruction of local self-government when we are about to be commanded by city councils except by janitors and plumbers. Because all of their socially important functions are transferred to the central branches of the executive branch. At the same time, we are also told about the expansion of the functions of local self - government. And thirdly, we are not satisfied with the practice of covering additional public budget expenditure on the basis of such a questionable source of revenue as the additional arrivals of the National Bank of Ukraine. What's left to turn on the printing press and print the different colors? The faction then unequivocally denies the bill and will not vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u104	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u105	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you put to the vote the entire bill 2290, you essentially committed a crime, Vladimir Vasilovich. How hard it is to say here, but it was essentially a serious breach of legislation. I want to tell you that there is still this article 365, which can be held accountable. I bring to your attention that now, under the transcript, I, and the National Deputy Lazko, and Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik have objected to the adoption of this bill as a whole, but, contrary to the Rules, you have extended and unlawfully put to the vote. Vladimir Vasilovich, it would be appropriate if a young speaker were not experienced. I advise you to lift that vote and move on to the law, as it is for a speaker of a state like Ukraine. As far as the bill is concerned. Dear friends, we essentially take away all authority from local self - government. Guys, we've already come to that, more faithfully, you've reached the majority of what you're voting for. That even the disposal of household waste must take place centrally. In fact, local self-governance is destroyed because there are no functions, they don't stay in places, because you want to centralize all the material resources for their distribution further in Kiev. It's wrong, it's a crime, and that's why I'm proposing not to vote for this bill. I'm not saying that there's an extra hole in the financing of local budgets by removing these funds. It's a budget imbalance, think about what you're doing, and I urge you not to vote. Vladimir Vasilovich, with all due respect to you, I suggest you cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Everyone made their views known by law. That's why I'm putting the bill to the vote. People's deputies, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 2342a) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (on the financing of state registration of business entities) for adoption as a whole. The Committee's conclusion. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:45:08]] For 243 Against - 2, held - 1, not voted - 133. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered Law 2290a. The National MP from Vitalia Klitschka Faction showed me that one of the National Deputies did not vote with his card. As it was, that's the second question, we need to investigate the committee, so I'm going to put it to a vote. May I have the attention of the people's deputies? I am betting on the vote on the draft Act (No. 2290a) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (restructuring budgetary debt). For adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. We'll vote on it. Please vote. [[12:47:18]] For 244 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 136. Decision taken. The factions, please. There are factions. I'm asking the people's deputies not to vote, I beg you to vote with your cards. When we're discussing issues, we have to go to the rostrum and speak on the subject, because they come up, we look at one question, they come up on the other, and then they say we had specific suggestions. And there are no specific suggestions. That's why you decide. I put it to a vote, and you vote yes or no, that's your right, and that's my right to vote. What's your word? For what reason? You know there's no word for vote. What can I get you? I'm asking you to come up, we're asking you a question. A draft Order (number 2920) is under consideration to mark the 70th anniversary of the break-in by the Soviet armies of the German line of defense of the Votan and the liberation of the city of Melitopol. How are we going to view the full program? Short? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:49:31]] For 199 Against - 3, held - 0, did not vote - 174. Decision taken. I'm asking the National Deputy of Ukraine, Balický Evgen Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u107	Dear friends, the city of Melitopolis was liberated on 23 October 1943. [[B in m in s a l in]] This breakthrough gave our troops an opportunity to develop a perspective, and as a result, Ukraine was liberated, Crimea was released, and we received airfields so that Soviet troops could bomb. Romanian deposits. I would like to emphasize that, over the past 10 years, military patriotic societies, search and rescue organizations and governing authorities have been undergoing repeated reconstructions of the Votan Line. More than a thousand people attend these events, and more than 30,000 viewers are being gathered. This reminds us of that truth, the truth of that war. Our soldiers stood for our freedom. We would very much like to see no more neo-Naziism and fascism on the right side of our Parliament. We will do our utmost to recall the truth about the war so that our children will remember and be proud of the victory our fathers, grandparents have brought. I ask you to support our ruling on behalf of those who died to remember the truth about that war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u108	Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko None. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, listen. Now I'm being approached by the MPs of Freedom and they say that MP Pressman voted in favour of Markov. I'm sitting here thinking maybe I voted, or maybe I don't, I don't know. Where are we headed by the Rules Committee? I ask you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, listen to the deputies, consider the question, I will give you the rostrum and you will report to the deputies, because I cannot see who for whom. That's what they said, and how do I know, isn't it? What am I going to vote on? Well, you said you had to look into it. In the law, read what needs to be done. Vote or consider this question? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now the question will be over -- I'll give Sass a minute when we're done. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting you to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are we going to talk about here? Well, what are we talking about? A 70-year break-in with the Soviets, well, what's here to talk about? I'm asking you, national deputies, to sign up for factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sidy, there's a Rules, I'm doing the Rules. You'll be waving your hands around. Please Compartia Ukrainiana, National Deputy Zubcevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We will, of course, support the Communist faction because this breakthrough was one of the decisive fighting and military operations to free our country from German-Fashistic invaders. This is a tribute to the great feat of the Soviet people in the fight against fascism. This is a tribute to all those who have put their heads in the fight against the 20th century's brown plague. I would like to draw the voter's attention to the fact that the so-called opposition does not vote in favour of the draft decisions relating to the 70th anniversary of our country's liberation from the fascists as a whole. They did not vote in favour of the 70th anniversary of the Carpathian raid of the Kovpak guerrilla compound. Each of the so-called opposition should be asked by the voters who they really are: those who met with the Fascist bread and salt - do they support them? Or those who today ignore all the achievements that have been won by our Soviet soldiers. I therefore believe that they must be responsible for what is happening now and with the history of our country. Today, they are being sacrilegious toward their grandfathers and fathers who have shed blood in the fight against fascism. This is the genuine neo-Naziism that they are today manifesting in favour of a decision or decision, not supporting the 70th anniversary of the liberation of certain areas from German-Fashistic invaders. The Communist faction therefore supports, and we call on all the healthy forces, all the forces that are ready to fight fascism, to vote in favour of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u111	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u112	Pass it on to Mikhalchino, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u113	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. Without a doubt, the German defence breach on the Votan line is very good. The question remains why we do not speak in this context of honoring the memory of the tens of thousands of victims who were offered by Soviet command during this and other operations for the liberation of Ukraine. It also raises doubts about the practice of celebrating such dates as are truly in need of tribulation, needing respect for the memory of the fallen victims, and do not endorse the militaristic myths of the totalitarian era. Take, for example, the U.S. Army. She also fought against the Nazi invaders of Europe. For some reason, it is not customary in America to celebrate separately the breakthrough under Avranche, the liquidation of the Falezian Cauldron, the forcing of the Rhine River, the victory in the battle of the Ardenian performance, the merger with the Soviet forces in Turingia. It's a one-day celebration of the Allied Landing Day in Normandy, when the Nazi dismemberment began in Europe and the liberation of the European continent. Similarly, the practice of a similar artificial multiplication of individual holiday dates does not contribute to the restoration of historical memory, but simply resuscitates the mythology of the Stalin era when no one counted human victims. And when there was a practice of taking separate lines of fortifications, separate fortified cities to the next holiday date. I can remind you. As Stalin wanted to take Riga, it was the anniversary of the November Revolution of 1944; just as the task was to force Dniper and Kyiv. Such decisions were made because such operations were paid for by the blood of dozens. Hundreds of thousands of innocent victims. So I encourage them to think and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u114	The faction of the party of the region, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we will, of course, support this draft decision. It's perfectly clear. In this way, we will show respect for our Ukrainian soldiers who stopped the invasion of Fascist Germany. If it weren't for our troops, if they hadn't stopped Nazi Germany, we wouldn't have developed a civilized Europe today, we wouldn't have had those standards in Europe that raised our hands in weeks. I call on the national MPs to show wisdom, there is no politics here, and to give due respect and honor to those who have won us peace, peace and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u116	I'm asking you to turn on Yuri Odarchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u117	I give the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u118	Mikola Tomenko, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! As both a Ukrainian and a citizen and a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, I ask you to stop this cynicism in the sessional room that has been going on for the last time. We tried to convince the parliamentary majority not to take benefits from Afghans, war veterans, not to take at least free treatment for them when the feet wipe off those tens of thousands of participants in the Great War of the Great Country left behind. The legs are wiped between the Afghans. And you're not helping those people today, but you've come to the point that we're about to celebrate the crossing of armies between the village and the city. There are great events to be celebrated. But there is a position that we hold. If you want to honor these older people, honor them, help them. But now this marasm, which today, it turns out, the parliamentary majority wants to celebrate the day of the death of the Forest of Ukraine. But have a conscience! Look, talk to the philosophers, with the historians. Well, to celebrate the day of death, you need it already, I don't know, have already voted a member of the Nacrada who makes 13 mistakes, so at least get the philosophers, experts, that they will say that anywhere in the world Christian morality does not allow you to celebrate death. And nowhere in the world is there any abuse of veterans like you do. Stop this abuse and join us in voting for the recovery of the benefits to the participants in the war, to the participants in the fighting, to the Chernobylers, and let us together honor these people who have saved the peace in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear. There was a national MP, a very important MP, Mikola Tomenko. Why lie to all the MPs and the people of Ukraine? Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich, National Deputy of the Fatherland faction, made a proposal, a draft decree to honor the memory of the Forest of Ukraine in connection with 100 years after the day of her death. What kind of a lie is that? Why are we getting down to this? What is it, my friends? It shouldn't be. I'm asking by law. By law? I beg you, there has not been a faction of Communists by law, National Deputy Cibenko. And a minute of Rosenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u121	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Well, I'm surprised to hear today that some of those people who don't support the day-to-day basic issues of honoring the Great Victory today are wearing the same kind of veterans of the Great Homeland War. It was the company of Ukraine that proposed to include a number of drafts in the agenda of this session to strengthen the level of socio-protected veterans and thus thank them for their victory. Another thing I can't help but say. Dear colleagues, in the past, the past government, on whose behalf Mr. Tomenko spoke today, introducing the State Budget Act, amending existing legislation, has eliminated the most disadvantaged categories of citizens from the list of citizens receiving social benefits. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u122	National MP Paul Rosenko, please. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u123	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. First. Vladimir Vasilovich, an urgent request from our faction, complied with the rule and read out the list of missing national deputies at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is your second call, Vladimir Vasilovich. Now I see that the closer we get to the promissory notes, the sadder the faces of the Party of Regions get. But, guys, you're going to vote. Do you think you're going to vote for the bills today and get out of here? And you've seen new initiatives in the day-to-day and to clarify your corporate tax base from the government, and to pay for the additional portions of the revenue to the state budget that are being invested today. So you will continue humbly to go to slaughter like these, I'm sorry, I won't say who. Do you think after the promissory notes you'll get off? No, it's not. There are new initiatives that will hit your business. Yeah, maybe you'll think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. I'm asking for your attention! Prepare to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on the Bill of Order (2920) to mark the 70th anniversary of the break-in by the Soviet armies of the German line of defense "Otan" and the liberation of the city of Melitopol as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:05:47]] For 231 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 148. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, some are questions for inclusion in the agenda. I propose, I will give, a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to implement the provisions of the Convention on Impact Assessment and the environment of the cross-border context for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:06:45]] For 225 Against – 0 held – 0 did not vote – 155. The decision is not taken. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to run, but to vote, to sit, to vote. Vote in person. Now, Vasadze says the card didn't work. So I'm putting again the Bill (registration number 2981) on the 50th anniversary of the opening. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? So what, the same one? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft Act No. 2109a amending certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. Vote! Vote in person. I got it, I got it. [[13:08:35]] For 234 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-148. Decision taken. And now I'm putting to the vote the bill's draft (2109) for inclusion in the agenda of this bill. People's deputies, please vote. I'll give you my word, Sasa. I promised, I would. [[13:09:14]] For 231 Against-0, held-0, not-152. Decision taken. A draft Order for inclusion in the agenda (number 2981) on the 50th anniversary of the opening of the North Crimson Canal is under consideration. I repeat, for inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:01]] For 222 Against 0, held - 1, not voted - 159. The decision is not taken. A draft Order (number 2239a) on the 75th anniversary of the Zaporozhye Region is under consideration. Are there Cossacks in the hall? For inclusion in the agenda. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:10:52]] For 239. Against 0, we held 0, we didn't vote 143. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 193, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 17. A draft Act (2916) is under consideration to include in the agenda of the daily session the amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (to improve the activity of the agricultural fund). Understand? I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:12:05]] For 232 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 151. Decision taken. The factions. I promised Sasu a minute, so I'm giving Sasu a minute. What question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Vasilovich, while the regulatory committee is looking for a colleague of the Pressman, I don't think he'll find it, because this should be done by a reckoning commission according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u126	I'll put the bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u127	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I, in violation of article 84 of the Constitution, the 27th on status and the 37th on the Rules, have randomly voted in favour of my colleague Pavlovski. Therefore, in order to ensure that this violation does not take place, I ask that the law be put to the vote (2,290). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u128	There's a committee there, they're going to give me a bill, and I'm going to put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, when my conclusions are reached, if it is confirmed that they voted, we will vote. If we don't, we won't. Listen, honourable deputies, two factions are asking to vote on the draft Order (No. 2981) to mark the 50th anniversary of the opening of the North Crimson Canal. That is why I am willing to return to this decision. People's deputies, please vote. Vote, people's deputies. Paul Rosenko, please vote. We're back. [[13:14:33]] For 228 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 155. Decision taken. I'm asking for the attention of the people's deputies, and the party's attention, too. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (No. 2981) marking the 50th anniversary of the opening of the North Crimson Canal. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[13:15:22]] For 231 Against -0 held -0 did not vote -152. Decision taken. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine (No. 0964) is under consideration "For securities and stock market" (for the issue of bonds from international financial organizations). And I invite the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Anton Vladimirovich Yatzenka to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, draft Law 0964 is proposed for second reading. So this project refers to the placement of emissions, the bonds of international financial organizations such as: European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, International Finance Corporation and others in Ukraine There were only 13 amendments to the law. One of them. All accounted for, except for one amendment by Deputy Zenzersky. During his consideration of the committee, however, he accepted the argument that it was rejected. So I want to say right away that this law was very difficult to go because on the one hand we have the position of the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Securities Commission, the Minfin, and so on, the position of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the main organization that will, so to speak, issue money. This is certainly of great importance for the investment climate in Ukraine and it is clear from the law that the money that will be received from the issue will be used in the national currency in Ukraine in accordance with the EBRD statute, i.e. for the sole purpose of lending the real economy, which is very important. In principle, a compromise position has been found and this law is precisely the result of a compromise between international organizations and the government and the National Bank. The committee at its meeting supported the draft draft for second reading, for adoption in second reading and in general, and asked for the support of the law in the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at the amendments. Amendment number two, Zenzersky. Declined. Are you insisting? No, don't insist, don't insist. No other amendments? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not here, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u131	There's no Zenzersky in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u132	There's an amendment, the national MP insists. I'm asking the People's Qaeda. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u134	Pass it on, please. Ladies and gentlemen, listen!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u135	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, the request to follow the amendments as a whole, on every amendment and not to jump. Now, I would like to place amendment number five, "The Bonds of International Financial Organizations", for confirmation, and then the content of sub-paragraph one. Therefore, ask for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, just what it's about here, really, very much -- you know Mr. Kaid as the first deputy chairman of the committee -- very many meetings were held with the EBRD, the IFC, other international institutions, that is, every word is said to be verified. And it is a very big request, though, to read this law carefully and not break it in substance. Because the point here is that we can adopt any law, for example, that in the first reading, but these organizations won't then issue their securities here, and as a result there will be no inflow of investment. That is, we need to be very careful about this. Therefore, the request is still supported by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u137	That's what you're for: 5?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u138	I'm telling you everything, but I'm talking about the 5th, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u139	Did you make any proposals for 5 amendments? Come on. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please sit down. The law is being considered, a very important law. And now there's going to be a lot of votes, because the committee members don't work with us, they don't make amendments, they don't make amendments, they don't make amendments at the Supreme Council meeting to delay this issue, and that's all. That's my special thought. I'm betting on confirmation. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 5, People's Deputy Yatzenka, for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:21:54]] For 233 Against 0, holding – 2, not voting – 144. Decision taken. Can we put the law to the vote as a whole? I'm betting on the bill. Go ahead, vote in place if the button doesn't work. Does it work? If it doesn't work, go to your seat and vote. I'm voting on the draft Act (No. 0964) amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets (for the issue of bonds from international financial institutions) for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:23:08]] For 240 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 140. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (No. 2662) on the status and conditions of the Accounting Centre for the servicing of financial markets is under consideration. In the second reading, we consider. Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Andrew Pavlovich Pinchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u140	Honorable Chairman and Honorable Fellows! This law is very important. I would like to remind you that the project proposes to grant the status of the Bank of Accounting of the Financial Markets Contracts, which is now being created under the Ukrainian Depository System Act. That is to say, the project provides for the actual simplification and acceleration of the implementation of key mechanisms for the activity of the Ukrainian Depository System, which is provided for in the Ukraine Depository System Act last year. The project was developed and supported by the National Bank of Ukraine. A comparative table to a second reading contains four amendments to the National Deputies. Three amendments are taken into account to specify the rules of standard design. One amendment is rejected because it contradicts the concept of the project. At the same time, we have carefully worked out the conclusion of the General Legal Department on the committee, and we suggest that we take into account the observations of our respected lawyers. For this purpose, for the purpose of the transcript, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider these two clarifications. Paragraph 1, paragraph 3, paragraph 2. The third paragraph of the first paragraph of Chapter 2 and after the words “name of the Banking and Banking Act” add to the words “with regard to the characteristics of the Act”. And the second. Subparagraph 2 of Section 2 and delete. I would like to point out that these proposals are in agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine and allow all the warnings of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority to be taken into account. In view of the amendments made under the transcript, please support the recommendations of the Committee on Finance and Banking and adopt the Law in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Amendment number 2. People's MP, do you insist? Involve the People's Deputy of the Deleter. We have one amendment, we vote, and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u142	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the granting of commercial bank status to the clearing house is not worthwhile. The fact is that the area of activity of the accounting centre, according to part of the fourth new edition of article 15 of the Ukrainian Depository System Act, is limited only by the carrying out of monetary transactions in respect of securities and other financial instruments made on the stock market and outside the stock market, if they are carried out in principle by the supply of securities against payment, opening and entering of monetary accounts of the stock market participants, ensuring payment of income at the value of the nominal value when the securities are written off and by the issuer of other corporate transactions, including those securities located and protected outside Ukraine by clearing operations. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of the Knave. People's deputies, please vote. Why are we wasting our time? [[13:27:24]] For-13. Against 5, held – 27, not voted – 330. The decision is not taken. Why don't you support, "the glory of Ukraine" is and you don't support your colleague. Well, can you do that? I would like to make a note of the people's deputy Rosenko, who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u144	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Well, I think all of the representatives of the big capital and the companies of the Party of Regions understand why it's creating a clearing house. It's like a monopoly that's going to be made up of a small bunch of people that you're going to run around on your heels and ask for something to do with those bills that they're going to give you, yes, and with those financial institutions. And as for the amendment, I want to talk about the disadvantage of the first amendment, which is kind of saying that we need to make some technical legal corrections. So I understand that the amendment was just a wreck to write out, that he actually wants to change, and by that phrase you can rewrite the law completely. So I suggest that Mr. Pinchuck make the first amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u145	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues, well, I understand the desire of some deputies to delay such a time, all of this is understandable. By the way, there is only one wish before making any adjustments, please read the bill carefully. First. The calculation center has already been created. This time. It's different. This law only applies to the rules governing the activity of this accounting centre in its activities. At the moment, the National Bank is already a 75 percent shareholder of this clearing house and is regulating its activities. We're asking, we're keeping the law in order. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u147	What amendment should be made first for confirmation, honourable national deputies? Did they all split up? No one's going anywhere? I'm going to amend the 1st People's Deputy of Pinchuck. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, if so denied the amendment, we have the practice of entrusting the Chief Legal Authority with the necessary technical and legal editing when preparing the bill for signature to the President. Let us vote on this commission and not vote on it. This will be the commission of the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u149	Are we giving this commission to the committee? Put it to the vote? I'm betting on the vote to give the order to prepare such an amendment for the President's signature. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:31:01]] For 236 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 140. Decision taken. The factions. And I'm voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 2662) amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the status and conditions of the Accounting Centre for the servicing of financial markets with editorial details of the Committee, making proposals, for the adoption of second readings and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:32:00]] For 241 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote 134. The law is passed. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your attention, an announcement. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the decision of the Deputy faction "Fatherschina" to exclude from the faction the Ukrainian National Deputy Kravczuk Vasil Petrovic for betraying the interests of the people of Ukraine and for systematically violating the faction of the faction's decisions regarding the voting of matters of the daily order is reported. We ask the faction to announce this decision immediately at the plenary session. [[Applause]] A draft Act (No. 1177) is under consideration to amend some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens (second reading). And I invite you to the rostrum of the First Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee, Sergio Fedorovich Kaltsev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the introduction of the State Register for Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (Registration No. 1177). The bill is aimed at bringing valid legislative acts of Ukraine into compliance with the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, which took effect on 1 January 2013. The committee received proposals from two national deputies of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine, only 17 of which 6 are proposed to be taken into account in whole or in part and to reject the rest. The main block of proposals proposed to be rejected relates to changes to the Mortgage Act, since according to the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, the State registration of the mortgage is mandatory, and the required harmonization of the specified Law and the Law on the Mortgage Law is necessary. The committee at its meeting on 13 May 2013 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine’s existing legislative acts in connection with the introduction of state registration of immovable property rights and their burden to accept them on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Amendment number one, it's rejected, National Deputy Sharov. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. Let's go. Do you have till 1st? So I'm going to give you two. I'm saying amendment number two, national deputy of Gorin. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u152	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please place on confirmation the amendment of the national deputy of Gorina. That is, sub-paragraph 2, paragraph 1, section I of the project, in the following wording: "Part four, article 132 delete." I propose to put it to a vote and not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u153	Thank you. I'm asking for an explanation of Gorina or a committee. Please, for the deputies. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy of Gorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u154	I'm asking you to support my amendment because it was practically supported by the majority at a committee meeting. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u155	I'm betting on the vote to be amended by the 2nd People's Deputies of Gorina for confirmation. People's deputies are asked to take their seats and vote. Vote. [[13:37:04]] For 238. Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 135. Decision taken. Amendment number 4. The National Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 8. The National Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a stop to this. I read the Rules, I read again, calmly, you said, sit down, listen. Standing? Listen, the law was passed by the Supreme Council, if the plenary meeting of the People's Deputies were to bring about a violation of the requirements for personal voting by voting for another national MP, the consideration of the agenda at his request would stop. The chairman of the plenary meeting, I am the presiding officer, sets up the presence of the respective national deputy. Who was voted for, tell me? Oh, you don't. I'm still reading. So don't shout." The chairman of the plenary shall establish the presence of the relevant national MP." I don't know, name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u156	I'll ask you in the hall. ".. And if he's not in the room, he'll have the Count Commission remove the card and the National MP and hand it over to me. And re-vote on the proposal that was put to the last vote." So, what do you want me to do? Who voted for whom? Head of the Regulatory Committee, turn on the microphone to the head of the Regulatory Committee, please. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! The rules of the Rules say that in addition to voting "for" every national MP has the right to vote "against" or "resisted." If we're objective, we'll look at the board, and our colleagues don't vote "against" or "restraint." What is involved in this case? So I'm sitting next to you, this is Deputy Bort, who hasn't physically reached his card. But he's in the hall, he works with us in the morning. So it's simple. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you can ask that question again for the vote of Deputy Bort on the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u158	Turn on the microphone of the national MP Bort, turn it on. People's deputies. Who did you vote for or not vote for, in or out of the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u159	Everyone in the room. They didn't vote for anyone, all present.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u160	All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want from me? What do you want? Am I stopping what to stop? There's no fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u161	Well, yeah, no, well, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u162	Where did you show it? Let's see the photo.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u163	You don't? I asked each other -- no.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u164	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 9 of the National Bank of Ukraine, do you insist? No, it's not. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputy of Gorino. Are you insisting? No, it's not. National deputy of Gory's 11th Amendment. Are you insisting? Correction. Don't knock. You'll knock on the woman's head. Go on. Amendment 12 National Bank of Ukraine Are you insisting? Don't knock on my porch, knock it down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, yeah. Amendment 13, folks. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u165	Yeah? I'll give you my word. Amendment 14 of the People’s Deputy of Gorin. Are you insisting? No, it's not. I am voting on the draft Act (1777) amending certain legislation in Ukraine in connection with the introduction of the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens for adoption in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You scream, and I don't hear you insist. Don't scream! I can't hear him insisting! [[13:44:28]] For 238. Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote 134. I'll talk to you soon. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? People's deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let me tell you, both the session room and the journalists. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, members of the Freedom faction have come and told me that one of the National Deputies of the Party of the Regions is voting in favour of three National MPs. I say, let's get the head of the Regulatory Committee, he's sitting next to you, give an explanation. He gave an explanation, you listened. I give the floor to Bort: "Who did you vote for? There are no deputies." They're right next door. They say, "No, they voted for themselves. I voted for myself. Next. I say to them: "Give me confirmation." "Let's do it." They're showing confirmation, a photo of Bort. Show me the confirmation of the hall, show me. They're screaming for confirmation. Show me confirmation. Show me the hall! Show me the hall! [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down and I'll give you a minute, Andrew Mohnik. Please sit down. Please. Don't take the papers there, Andrew. Let him lie down. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u166	Mr. Head! It seems to be in the tradition of the Party of Regions something foreign to the brothers. Half the countries have already taken it. "Freedom" doesn't have anything to do with it, so. For the purposes of Package, package.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u167	Please report on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u168	So let's start with Bill 2290, which voted and voted. There is a video recorded where the People's MP from the Pressman Party voted in favour of another – Markov. The video was watched. And Maquienko saw the video, and the Oily. Head of the Standing Committee and Head of the Counting Commission Instead, you did not put the Rules to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u169	We'll ask that question when the head of the Counting Commission reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u170	No, that's the first one. And now there's a video that says that the national MP, Bort, did the same thing with the buttoning. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u171	Let me see! Show the MPs. Let me see! What you're telling me, show the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u172	Look at this!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u173	Show the MPs. There.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u174	I've been there before.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u175	I don't think so. Deputies! Where's the Counting Commission? Where do we have Vladimir Ivanovich? I'm asking the head of the Counting Commission. Please. Where the head of the Counting Commission is. I'm asking you to download the information now. Investigate. When you're ready, I'll give you a rostrum, and we'll give it to you. Make suggestions, Count Commission, vote, vote. All of it! We screamed, let's keep working. A draft Law (number 2405) on amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate (second reading) is under consideration. I ask you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitali Yuriovich. It's also impossible, I'm one and you're all yelling. Well, you don't have to do that. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the essence of the bill. The language does not apply to the granting of certain benefits to the underprotected population on the basis of the real estate tax. The second reading came with proposals from the National Deputies: Gordinka, my personal and other deputies, members of the Committee, to settle another issue. The question is that today there is a real estate tax benefit: up to 120 square meters per apartment (people do not pay taxes) and 250 square meters per house (no benefits). But this benefit does not come from just one object. If you have, for example, two 20 meters of cartilage, one of the benefits works, the other you have to pay the tax to the full. We settled this question, and the final sentence is that 250 meters and 120, respectively, for the apartment, no matter how many properties you have. So the paper is balanced, 26 suggestions, all taken into account. Only one is rejected, and it's technical. Therefore, the request is to be supported in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u177	I beg of you, National Deputy Igor Sharov. Are you insisting on your right? Don't insist. May I put it to a vote? Oh, no? I beg of you, National Deputy Rosenko, and we will be determined. And I'll give you freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u178	I'm sorry to jump, but the 24 amendments that are included, but it looks kind of, frankly, wild in this situation when, in the matter of, I'm sorry, which is part of, really, maybe somewhere, the protection of citizens' rights is being removed from enterprises that are not privatized, all of a sudden, Dondiproschakht. Excuse me, what this has to do with this law and this amendment is a gross violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules, which provide that no amendments may be made to the second reading which contradict or do not comply with this bill. So I'm usually very interested in how they vote in favour of privatizing the communist mining company. But I'm asking you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u179	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u180	24.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u181	24. Please, Vitaly, an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u182	Any national MP has the right to make corrections. Really.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u183	Inform the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u184	Really, it is not entirely related to the text. But there's a proper position of government, there's a bill that's similar. Therefore, the committee also supports him and asks for his support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u185	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u186	Request for confirmation and support of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the 24th People's Deputies of Mironka. I'll bet the vote on confirmation. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:53:57]] For 235 Against - 1, held - 0, did not vote - 132. Decision taken. The factions. I am voting on the draft Law (2405) amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Housing Property for Second Reading and Overall. Please vote. You don't vote. [[13:54:47]] For 241 Against - 1, held - 0, did not vote - 121. Decision taken. Why are you going to the session, you better ask yourself, not me. Well, don't. You don't have to. I'm an experienced manager. Please. A draft Act (No. 2833) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the implementation of administrative reform (second reading). Please, Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the bill has already been considered in Parliament. And a number of proposals were not supported by Parliament. I can tell you what the amendments to the transcripts are if you need them. But the committee considered, took into account Parliament's position and those amendments that were not voted on, unconfirmed, we excluded them. So we've put them in front of these amendments that they're rejected. So we've actually gone through the whole text, but we haven't answered, we're adopting this law or we're sending it back to read again. That's why I don't see the point of going through the amendments. I need to make a decision. The committee's recommendation is to accept it in the second reading and in general, and if it is not accepted, then send it to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean to vote? There is a rule, let's listen to the amendments that are rejected and then we'll vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment number one. We'll go through the repairs now. Amendment number one, National Deputy Homutinika, has been rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u190	Vladimir Vasilovich, I don't insist, but I want to say it again. We've been following all the amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u191	National Deputy Homutinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u192	We've made all the amendments in Parliament, so we need to be determined by the bill and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u193	Amendment number 2 is counted. Martinks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u194	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you not to violate the Rules and yet, if the MPs have any comments, please give your word and put them on confirmation. That is why 2 amendments, National Deputy Homutinika, in section 1, paragraph 1, of the bill and paragraph 1 of the bill should be supplemented by a paragraph of such a content. Here comes this amendment, please place it on confirmation. And please, Vladimir Vasilovich, if the deputies, and you see, raise your hand loudly in the hall and say that there are observations to those rights and we want to put to the confirmation you put to the vote. Therefore, do not violate the Rules and ask for an amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u195	I'm telling you, you do everything, you don't vote for any law, and you just raise questions so that the laws won't be passed. I'm telling you, we need to work more on the committees, it's the main course, not the voice here to raise the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u196	Vladimir Vasilovich, I still want to remind you again, maybe you didn't hear the MPs. We've been going through all this text all along. I'm talking about those that parliament didn't support: 1, 14, 23, 26, 27, 30, 31, 33, 48, 69, 70, 105 and 106, they were counted. After Parliament didn't confirm them, we wrote them, "Deviated," so I don't see the point of going through the entire text again. Please put this bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-07-04-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! The committee manager will report that we have considered all these amendments. That is why I am proposing a draft Act (2833) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with administrative reform for adoption on second reading and in general. Please vote. [[14:00:36]] For 240 The law is passed. Against 0, held 0, didn't vote 121. Decision taken. The factions. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue the session.
