ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u1	People's deputies please register. [[16:02:38]] There were 384 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. A draft Act (3057) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2013 to pay off the debt for energy resources (second reading). I invite the head of the Budget Committee, Eugenia Borisovich Geller, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! Draft Law No. 3057 prepared by the Committee for second reading. The bill had nine proposals that had been fully considered by the committee. In doing so, the majority of the proposals set out the position of the committee that was adopted when considering the bill in the first reading and related to the clarification of the indicators in the text and the additions thereto to balance the budget and the task of determining the mechanism for granting subsidies and the implementation of expenditure on debt for consumer electricity. In addition, it is proposed to clarify the extent of the special fund's revenues from the implementation of the State reserve's material values and the income tax for enterprises in connection with the repayment of energy-generating companies' debt to the Reserve for organic fuel in the years 1997-2000. The changes to article 21 of the Law determine the source of subsidies to local budgets to cover differences in tariffs. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill number 3057 on second reading and, as a whole, as a law in accordance with the decree. a committee in a comparative table of the final draft of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u3	Yeah, what about the amendment? Are all the amendments taken into account? Counted. We don't have half the room. So we will vote tomorrow after the adoption of Euro-Integration Laws. And if you don't want to work, I can close the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do all agree to adjourn? We're looking at questions, everyone. The questions we've been looking at for a break. All MPs and opposition, and most of them are speaking, talking, but here's the fundamental question that Euro-integration is not voting. Then we have the opportunity to discuss these issues today, and tomorrow we will put them to the vote. I ask the faction representatives for a minute to express their thoughts, and then I'll make you an offer. Please! Please, the Fatherland faction, who? Please, Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u4	Mr. Head! Just before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted an illegal and unconstitutional decision to stop the course of Ukraine’s European integration. [[B in m in s a l in]] We demand immediately Azarov to the Ukrainian Parliament tomorrow morning. I would like to point out once again that if Viktor Janukovic refuses to sign the Association Agreement, it is not just a national betrayal, it is the basis for the President's impeachment, but, in relation to Prime Minister Azarov, it is a direct basis for the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and External Policy, which must be implemented by both the President and the Prime Minister. Azarova to Parliament and Yanukovic to Parliament. We demand that we make appropriate decisions immediately. Now, stop talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u5	We have an hour of government tomorrow, so we'll have the government tomorrow. I'm asking you, the strike faction, Vitaly Kowalczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! The Vitalia Klicka faction considers it necessary to immediately invite Prime Minister Azarov to the Supreme Council for reasons and reasons of violation of the Act on the Fundamentals of Ukraine's Internal and External Policy. Because you and I are now witnesses that Azarov committed a state crime. He and the government actually exceeded their service authority. So I don't think we should wait for the government's hour tomorrow and immediately invite Prime Minister Azarov to the Hall to provide appropriate explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u7	Please, People's Deputy Kyle, Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u8	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society — What Has Happened in Ukraine? A national betrayal took place in Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, was the head of the treachery. First of all, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires this session hall, without waiting for tomorrow, the Prime Minister for the first time. And the second. We demand the resignation of Prime Minister Azarov for leading Ukraine into a'secret alliance' because Ukraine is on the verge of a default for violating all social laws in Ukraine. We demand here in the session hall once again: Azarova and this government must resign. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u9	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! Well, how much can we talk about flights to Mars, flights to the moon, any abstractions? Finally, after lunch, we came to consider specific bills that ensure the country's viability, economic, financial, budgetary, which enable businesses to earn their wages, people to earn their wages, to retain their jobs, to reduce unemployment, to fulfil their social obligations, and to implement social programmes. And once we get to the specifics, the opposition shows once again that the interests of the country, the interests of the common people, the interests of the labourers are of no concern to them at all. They are concerned about the political dividends for the elections. Have a conscience, think of the land, think of your people! I propose to continue the work of Parliament and to address specific socio-economic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u11	I'm asking the faction of the Ukrainian Company. Who's speaking? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u12	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the one that our factions have already said today that we, in pursuit of democracy, to the celebration of the law, to its observance, are now working, I'm sorry, to our understanding. We work in such a way that we wait for Friday. True, we do not know what Friday is like. Because I highly doubt that next Friday you will solve the problems that have arisen between you. What's more, coming out of today's Cabinet of Ministers decision. Volodymyr Vasilovich, I propose to use the Rules of Procedure for Signal Voting. Volodymyr Vasilovich, there is a rule of the Regulations on Signal Voting. I now propose that this bill be put to the vote. If there is a desire for the deputies to work, the signal vote will show that there is a desire and we can vote on the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u13	Did everyone say that? Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are making proposals that we should consider ratifying, put to the vote. That's why I'm going to put the ratification vote on it. If there are no votes, then there is no point in working. And there will be voices in the signal vote, and then we will be determined. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I am voting for the draft Law No.0050 on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine as Borrower Agent and the European Union as Creditor for providing Ukraine with macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to 610 million euros. People's deputies, please vote. This is going to be a signal vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:17:56]] For 210 Against - 1, held - 2, did not vote - 169. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for your attention! We have considered the draft Law (3057) amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 to pay off the debt for energy resources for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[16:18:58]] For 239. Against - 5, held - 2, did not vote - 130. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 190, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 29, non-fractional – 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u14	Vladimir Vasilovich, for the reasons of the vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u15	There's no reason to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u16	You don't? Lobby laws: There are voices, and there are no European laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u17	There is no European because the Communists do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u18	Shame on the communists and the regionals!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u19	A draft Act (No. 2843) on the amendment of Ukraine’s Mining Act on coal or peat briquettes is under consideration. Please report to the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, a comparative table of the draft Law amending the Mining Act of Ukraine on coal or peat briquettes, prepared by the Committee, taking into account the decision of the Supreme Council on 5 November to adopt it on the basis of a reduced period of preparation for second reading. The text adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading received 10 proposals from three Ukrainian national deputies: Anatolia Goncharov, Paul Korž, Nikolai Levchenka, of which 5 are fully taken into account. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the final draft of the bill allows a number of tasks and issues to be addressed, namely, territorially restricting the supply of peat briquettes as domestic fuel for the benefit of the concessional category of citizens by linking to drilling and drilling enterprises. I would like to point out that this clarification, a clarification of the draft law, allows for the maintenance of the existing balanced mechanism for granting local budget subsidies to local budgets, compensation under articles 43, 48 of the Mountain Act. All amendments have been considered. I ask that this bill be supported in second reading and in general as a law. This decision was taken unanimously by the Tekovsky Branch Committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u21	Do you understand the offer? Have a seat. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 2843) amending the Mining Act of Ukraine on coal security, or peat briquettes, for adoption in the second reading and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:22:47]] For 237 Against 0, they held 0, they didn't vote 140. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 187, Fatherland - 0, Vitaly Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Companies - 28. We've made up our minds. General, sit down for a while. No, you sit down, or I'll talk to you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Two factions, factions, I understand, Fatherland and UDARA wrote: according to part of article 51 of the Supreme Council Rules, at the request of two MP factions, please announce a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 30 minutes." I'm asking all deputies to remain seated and I'm calling a five-minute recess. Please, if the rostrum, do you need an application? Please. Five minutes off. Your right, in 30 minutes. I'm calling a five-minute break. Make a statement. Ten minutes? What questions? According to the Rules, a break of up to 30 minutes. Five minutes is up to 30 minutes. Azarov? Who said Azarov was coming? Did you invite me? Azarov will be here tomorrow at 10 o'clock, the whole government will be. The break's coming. Who said? Here it is, the chairman announces a recess of up to 30 minutes. And these deputies want to work. What do you want to do? Let me put it to the vote. I can hear you. Now we have 16.26. 28?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u22	I'll see you at 5:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u23	At 4:50 a.m., we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u24	And the faction leaders are here to see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u25	And the faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council so that there will be no tampering.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-21-m1.u26	You can't keep working. The Presidency of the Supreme Council is blocked. In this connection, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll start work at 10 a.m.
