ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please calm down, sit down. We'll listen to the government. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:10:25]] There were 373 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Please, you invited the government to listen today. Give me a chance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because the government is going to work as hard as you won't give. I'm asking you to sit down. Let's listen to the government. Please, everyone, sit down. Let's listen to the government, you asked for it. I'm asking you again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're in the hall. Chairman of the Board; Chairman of the Board; Chairman of the Board of Education Nikolain myself; First Vice-President of the Orbovian Orbush Group Hennadyovich; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Mr Boyko Jury Anatolievich; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich; Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Grishenko Viktorin Ivanovich; Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources Oleg Albertovich; Present First Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade; Klimenko Proktorovich; Last Vice-President of the European Parliament and of the Council Members of the government are present. Honorable National MPs. The topic of "questions of the hour before the government" is defined by the Conciliation Council on Monday along with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, listen. One minute, listen. The MP's faction, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of Freedom, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions that would be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". The questions posed by the MPs will be answered: Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine Mikhail Kostinovich Kralenko and Minister of Finance of Ukraine Kolobov Yuri Volodymyrovic. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're making what kind of proposal. An offer is made. Listen! Listen! For your information. I will now give us the word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, he will speak, then two ministers will answer your questions, and we will consider all the questions that the deputies have. Do you have a deal? Sit down! I give the word to Mikola Janovich Azarov for information, and then I'll give you the question of the government, and I'll give you the word in the order of today's session. Sit down, let's hear it. You asked. Please, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-22-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The decision to suspend preparations for the signing of the Association and Free Trade Agreement with the European Union is difficult but only possible in the economic situation in Ukraine. Listen! You can always plow, we know that. [[B in m in s a l in]] The fact that you're a great master of lies has always been known. Listen to the Prime Minister. This decision is based solely on economic reasons and is of a tactical nature, not to the extent that it does not change the strategic direction of Ukraine's development, as enshrined in the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. The government has consistently carried out a strategic task of bringing Ukraine closer to European standards of living, carrying out difficult but necessary transformations for our society. And on this path, we've gone by general definition more than a decade before that. The transformations took place in extremely unfavourable conditions of the recession of the world economy, the prolonged decline in demand for Ukrainian goods in the external markets, the incredibly high prices for gas, for which we are grateful, as well as the heavy payments of external debt, including a huge debt for the loans of the International Monetary Fund received in 2008-2009, for which we also thank you. Under these conditions, the government has managed to pursue policies of financial and economic stability, social protection and modernization of domestic production. But we came to the limit when resource cuts raised the issue of new decisive measures, without which the country expected significant socio-economic shocks. And we're telling our people frankly about the threat of such a scenario. Dear national MPs, how can we ignore such realities as a 19 percent reduction in the production of chemicals and chemical products due to non-profit gas prices, primarily by 14 percent in the construction complex, a 6 percent reduction in metallurgical production, a 16 percent reduction in the construction index. [[B in m in s a l in]] How can we ignore the fact that, this year, exports of goods from Ukraine to Russia have decreased by about $2 billion. Exports to countries as important for the Ukrainian economy, such as India, by 15.6 per cent, Indonesia by 31.4 per cent, the Republic of Korea by 65 per cent, have been substantially reduced. What were the sanctions against us? What's that? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not dead statistics, it's a reduction in living thousands of jobs, it's a reduction in wage delay, it's social assistance, but it's impossible to modernise production. How can we ignore the fact that the countries of the Customs Union have decided to exclude the regime of free trade for Ukraine if Ukraine creates a free trade zone with the EU? Recently, rating agency Fitch has lowered credit for Ukraine's rating. The main reason. Listen! The main reason for the decline in ratings was that independent experts identified the imbalance in trade and economic relations with the Russian Federation. It's Fitch's definition, not us. It's obvious to the analysts of an authoritative agency that this is now the root problem of the financial and economic situation of Ukraine. What compensates us for the huge losses of the closure of the Customs Union’s markets? What, I'm asking you? Unfortunately, we did not get a realistic answer to that question. The last drop was the position of the International Monetary Fund in a letter received by the government on November 20, this year. The International Monetary Fund has issued a loan requirement, so think about the size needed to repay the debt to the International Monetary Fund itself. These are the requirements. These are the requirements, listen: almost double the rates for residential services for citizens; freeze wages, pensions, social assistance at the existing level; substantially cut budget costs; eliminate taxes for farmers; and a number of monetary policy requirements that I don't even say. I want to ask you, the so-called leaders of the opposition, answer the people of Ukraine openly. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you agree with the IMF's requirements? I don't agree. I speak frankly to the people of Ukraine: I do not agree as Prime Minister! And if you agree, say so. [[B in m in s a l in]] In view of what has been said, it is clear that the government has put the issue of restoring normal relations with the Russian Federation first. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the settlement of all common issues. Calm down, Rosenka! You've been ruining the country's social system for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-22-m0.u3	*** Where is the IMF and where is the European Union? Why is the IMF in the EU?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-22-m0.u4	What kind of expert you are is known to everyone. Main story. I've got an earful! What am I supposed to be quiet about? [[B in m in s a l in]] The main reason for complicated relationships and implementation. [[B in m in s a l in]] and the introduction of protective measures by Russia has become a possible regime of free trade with a powerful market in the European Union. Our partners are concerned about possible duty-free imports through the territory of the country of European goods and the significant economic losses. Therefore, we have proposed negotiations to resolve issues that are controversial in triangular terms with the participation of Ukraine, the European Union and Russia. This is an extremely important international issue in the context of the continuing world recession. After long complex negotiations, the Russian Federation has agreed to hold such negotiations, but the obvious condition is that they will take place before the signing of the Free Trade Agreement with the EU. The negotiations will allow for the elimination of contradictions and the continuation of a defined strategic path without catastrophic losses for the economy and citizens of Ukraine. I state that the President and Government of Ukraine will continue to pursue the course of reforms of European integration and the development of cooperation with all our strategic partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-11-22-m0.u5	Have a seat. As someone needs a rostrum, I'm going to be able to express my thoughts. Have a seat. Let's calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shall we close? We won't? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Don't yell, I'll shut you up. Dear national MPs, they say it's all there is to it. No, they won't. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way to continue this session. Therefore, I declare this morning’s session closed and to all good people’s deputies.
