ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please calm down. Have a seat. Let's get to work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:07]] There were 376 deputies registered in the hall. There's data. The national deputies who are on board are: Sobolev (ordered by the Head of the Supreme Council), Ljovčina (order), Tears, Kurpil, Pankevitch, Apostle. They're on a mission. On March 21, there were no national deputies on vacation. They are ill at the state scientific institution of Agafonova, Suškević. As far as written information is concerned. A summary will be given, another registration will be given, and then I will announce for the other deputies a written registration. Today is the day of the birth of Ukrainian national deputies Dudka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich and Kolesnick Vadim Vasilovich. Let us greet them with our birthdays and wish them good and good and give them flowers. Announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. [[Applause]] The ceremony was over. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union for Montenegro in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Interfractional Union "For Montenegro" was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh invocation of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union "Chernigyvishtina". The head of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union, Chernigyvščina, was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dubil Valerija Aleksandrovič. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Barrier Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the interfractional parliamentary association, Čerčaščina, was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Parubka Omeljan Nikonović. Pursuant to article 60, prime. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Union of the Carpathian Group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the inter-fractional MP group "Karpatska Group" elected the national deputies of Ukraine Tajnibok Andrija Jaroslavovic and Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today are with the deputies. Let us go to their consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections. We have an offer. Where's our committee manager? He's got to let us know. National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Volodymyr Vasilovich, I would like to draw your attention to the position of the part of the third article 7, where it is noted that the question of the permanent termination of the duties of the co-rapporteur's deputy is being considered immediately by the Supreme Council at its first plenary meeting after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Lebedev, appointed Minister of Defense in December. Why is this not being considered? And the next. Vladimir Vasilovich, pursuant to article 227 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council on a monthly basis after the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Minister's office, along with the program, gives a draft ruling. Why is there no program available so far? You limit the opposition rights to offer an alternative course. Please note and correct these violations of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u3	We'll be tasked with the first question, the committee, and he'll let us know when he makes an offer for consideration in the Supreme Council. As for the second question, we're going to have an opportunity tomorrow to clear up the matter in an hour. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we made a decision: we have entrusted the committee with the task of assigning the extraordinary election of the Basilkov City Head. I got the opinion of the committee. By unanimous vote, the committee confirmed its previous decision recommending that the election of Vasilkov City Head of the city of Vasilkov Kyiv Region be held on Sunday, June 2, 2013 and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the draft Decree No. 1201-69. The committee is Knjazevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I already told you yesterday that there will be no sensation. The committee, regardless of the political makeup of all members, has made a valid, reasonable and major legal decision that has proved that this document, which is actually a very difficult document to call a court decision, is not justice, because it has no bearing on the process that is currently taking place in the session room. What is more, yesterday we were set up to mislead the session hall. We were told yesterday that a court decision forbidding Parliament to take action. There is no word in the court's ruling on Parliament. The roads are open, the legal decisions are, we vote and we make decisions today about the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u5	I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Basilkov City Head (town of Vasilkov Kyiv Region) (No.1201-69) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:13:14]] For 343 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 174, Fatherland - 75, Vitalia Klitka - 38, Freedom - 33, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 23. Decision taken. The Alchev city head (City of Alchevsk Lugansk Region) (No.1201-70) is for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:14:06]] For 350. I'll take the order. There is a suggestion: to turn to the vote on the draft Order on the vote of the Alcev City Head, there is an offer to go back to the matter. Please vote. [[10:15:33]] For 338 We're back. Decision taken. And now I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Alchev City Head as a Base and Overall (No. 1201-70). Please vote. [[10:16:11]] For 352 There's an offer: go back to the New York City Head Decision. Please vote. [[10:16:45.]] For 350. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the appointment of the New Year's-to-year election of the City of Novonistrovsk Černovicka Region (No. 1201-71) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:17:23]] For 350. Decision taken. Please revert to the question of the appointment of the Sonicenian Rural Head (Sonicen Rural Council of the district of the Sumi district) (No. 1201-72). Please vote. [[10:18:00]] For 346 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sonicenian Rural Head (Sonicen Rural Council of the district of Sumi district) (No 1201-72). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:18:38]] For 351 Decision taken. And we move on, we vote on the assignment. I am voting on the draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Željabov Rural Head (Zelhabov Village Council of the Lower Góra Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No. 1201-73). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:19:26]] For 354 Motovil's village head (Motovil's Rural Council of the Lubar district of Žitomir district) (No.1201-74). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:19:53]] For 349 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the Assignment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Ivano-Zolotov Rural Head (The Ivano-Zolotov Rural Council of the Zalitski district of Ternopil district) (No.1201-75) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:20:30.]] For 348 Decision taken. The sub-primary village head (Pidoprigorian Rural Council of the Region of the Suma Region) (No.1201-76) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:21:01]] For 348 Decision taken. The Trappian Rural Head (Trapov Village Council of the Tatarbunar Region of Odessa) (No.1201-77) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:21:30.]] For 352 Decision taken. The Cotusian village head (Cotuzian Rural Council of Terebovljan district, Ternopil district) (No.1201-78) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:22:00]] For three hundred Decision taken. The Supreme Rural Head (the Verkhosul village council of the Bilopil district of Suma Region) (No.1201-79) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:22:30.]] For 351 Decision taken. Kuibishev village head (Kuibishev village council of the Bobrinecki district of Kirovograd) (No.1201-80) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:23:00]] For 351 Peter's Second Rural Head (Peter's Second Council of the Alexandrian Region of the Donetsk Region) (No.1201-81) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:23:29]] For 351 Decision taken. The Shupari village head (Supari village council of the Ternopil region) (No.1201-82) - for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:23:58]] For 345. Decision taken. Andriev village head (Andriiv village council of Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa) (No.1201-83) - for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:24:25]] For 348 I'll take the order. Kalennikov village head (Kalennikov village council of the Zolitani district of Cherkas region) (No.1201-84) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:25:00]] For 352 I'll take the order. The Casperius Village Head (Casperius Village Council of the Ternopil Region) (No.1201-85) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[10:25:31]] For 351 Decision taken. Krivian Rural Head (Crovian Village Council of Tarostian Region of Kiev) (No.1201-86) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:26:02]] For 346 For 346. Decision taken. The Zaliski Rural Head (Zalish Village Council of the Ternopil Region) (No.1201-87) is for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[10:26:41]] For 343 I'll take the order. The Palagic Village Head (Palagic Village Council of the Dwarf District of Johno-Frankiv Region) (No.1201-88) is for adoption as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:27:17]] For 343 I'll take the order. Sarazin Rural Head (Saraginian Village Council of the Baltic Odessa Region) (1201-89) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:27:49]] For 341 I'll take the order. Wojnovi village head (Vojnovi village council of the Alexandri district of Kirovograd) (1201-90) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:28:22]] For 341 I'll take the order. Ukrainian Rural Head (Kraivstian Rural Council of the Volidar-Volin Region of the Žitomir Region) (1201-91) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:28:54]] For 351 I'll take the order. Pavlovil Rural Head (Paulupil Rural Council of the Nikopol District of Dnipropetrovsk Region) (1201-92) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:29:24]] For 349 I'll take the order. Dmitry’s Rural Head (Nicopolian Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region) (1201-93) is for adoption of the foundation and in general. Please vote. [[10:29:55]] For 349 I'll take the order. Kukushkin village head (Kukushkin village council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (1201-94) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:30:25]] For 351 Decision taken. Torcanov Rural Head (Torcanian Village Council of the Trieste Region of Vinnitsk Region) (1201-95) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:30:58]] For 346 I'll take the order. Bandishiv village head (Bandishiv village council of Mogilov-Podil district of Vinnitsk district) (1201-96) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:31:29]] For 348 Decision taken. Snovovicki Rural Head (Snowovitski Rural Council of the Rokitni district of Ravenna Region) (No.1201-97) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:32:06]] For 346 Decision taken. The Zavali village head (Zavalovska Rural Council of the Ternopil region) (No. 1201-98) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:32:35]] For 340. Decision taken. Denisov village head (Denisiv village council of the Orgitsky district of Poltava region) (No. 1201-99) is for adoption as a whole and on a basis. Please vote. [[10:33:07]] For 344 Decision taken. The Berezin Rural Head (Béžin Rural Council of the Kirovograd Region of Kirovograd) (No. 12010-100) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:33:35]] For 343 Decision taken. Malomayanian Rural Head (Malomatian Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No. 1201-101) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:34:10]] For 339 Decision taken. The Primorje Rural Head (Primorje Rural Council of the Domanov Region of Mikolaiiv Region) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'll give it to you when we're done. [[10:34:45.]] For 338 Decision taken. Now the Novotroitsky Rural Head (Novotroitsk village council of the Krasnoarmian region of the Donetsk Region) (1201-103) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[10:35:20]] For 346 Decision taken. The Mikolai Village Head (Mikolai Village Council of the Simferopol Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (1201-104) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:35:50]] For 337 It's been decided. The Blackbai village head (Cornobaiiv Village Council of the Cherkai district) (1201-105) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:36:19]] For 336 Decision accepted. The red-grey village head (Red-grey village council of the Nikopolski District of Dnipropetrovsk Region) (No. 1201-106) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:36:51]] For 344 Decision taken. Borisov village head (Borissov village council of the Fastov region of Kiev) (No. 1201-107) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[10:37:23]] For 334 I'll take the order. (No. 1201-108) is a town head of Beregov, the town council of Zacarpathia (No. 1201-108) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:37:54]] For 335 Decision taken. The Wozniesen City Council of the Mikolai District (No.1201-109) is a city head for adoption as a basis and as a whole. [[10:38:19]] For 344 It's been decided. The Pochampian Rural Head (Pacapian Rural Council of the Lubomli Region of Volin Region) (No.1201-110) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:38:52]] For 345. Decision adopted, for – 345. The Pistachio village head (Pishtikow village council of the Skuri district of Kyiv Region) (No.1201-111) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:39:24]] For 342 I'll take the order. The village head of Piskov, the village council of the district of Burin (No.1201-11), is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:39:54]] For 345. Decision taken. The Chinese village head (Chinese Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No. 1201-13) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:40:24]] For 337 Decision taken. The village head of Obinden, the Council of the Nemiriv Region of Vinnitsky (No. 1201-11), is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:40:52]] For 342 I'll take the order. Lučičivski village head (Lučivov village council of the Altushin city council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No.1201-115) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I couldn't take it. [[10:41:24]] For 336 I'll take the order. There's nothing here that can't take it anymore. Let's move on. The Yaltin City Head (Yaltin City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (No.1201-116) is for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:42:09]] For 344 I'll take the order. And the last. Poland’s Rural Head (Polykhiv Village Council of Theophilus Region of Hmelnitsk Region) (No. 1201-59). For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:42:49]] For 340. Decision taken. We have concluded our consideration of the matter. On the grounds. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Distinguished colleagues, the Company’s faction did not vote in view of our insistence and demand that the Supreme Council decide on the abolition of pension reform and the retirement age of 55 years for women and 60 years for men. This is the first time. Secondly, we demand that the Supreme Council make an urgent decision on the cessation of medical reform, which has led to practically tragic consequences for the people of Ukraine. Thirdly, we ask the Supreme Council to pay all the wages that have arisen, which is more than a billion bracelets, and to impose a penalty for the late payment of wages due to the lack of such responsibility in the country today. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction of the Company requires the adoption of appropriate decisions that will and will assist the Ukrainian people in particular. I would thus like to explain the faction's position on why the faction does not vote in the Supreme Council until those decisions are taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u7	Shufrich, please. Shufrich, turn on the microphone. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, you see, the position of the Party of Regions was consistent, it could be done at once. There is a committee decision -- we voted accordingly. But yesterday, I and our colleagues -- we all witnessed the women MPs of our Parliament addressing our colleague, Artem Seminouk, in connection with the incident that took place near this rostrum. All of us, men in the first place, and I think it's unfortunate for everyone in this room that the incident has happened to our colleague Mrs. Irina Sech. We have carefully studied all the videos available and, unfortunately, have concluded that, indeed, Mrs. Sekh has been mistreated by this opposition. But we have also seen that there is no fault of Artem Seminouk here. And we're not going to say right now who did this to Mrs. Sech, and we're not going to talk about it. Nor has it been confirmed that Mrs. Sekh has acted with her glasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u10	I would like to draw a conclusion from this fact. We're sorry this incident took place. But, dear colleagues of the Freedom faction, I want to tell you in your "loved" language, "Be men!" And don't hide behind your college girls, but go out with us one-on-one, without your wives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u11	Deputies! Where'd Tuggnibok go? Where are you going? Ladies and gentlemen, two factions per minute, I'll give each faction one minute. Rizonenko, please. Rosenko. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I have to repeat those questions from the strike faction that were announced yesterday from the Supreme Council rostrum and the answer that we never heard. The first question concerns the declaration of written registration data. We ask you to adhere to the political arrangements that have been reached in unlocking the rostrum and to now announce the records of the written registration and the people who are not in the room, and to block these people's cards. And the second question about the Minister of Defence of Lebedev. The procedure for depriving Sergey Vlastenk of the MP's mandate took exactly one week. For three months, a member of the Party of the Regions is in grave violation of the law and there is no response from the Supreme Council leadership. We need to be clear right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u13	Thank you. I have been instructed by the committee to prepare this issue for the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for the first question. The faction manager approached. I just got a written registration. Come to the session in time, I'll have this information earlier. Don't let me tell you twice. The leader of your faction, we have an agreement. Please, "Freedom" for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u14	Illenka, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. For reasons of vote. It's very good that today there was enough intelligence and a party of regions voted in favour of the election in Vasilkov and all the other places, so we didn't divide Ukraine into varieties today and make no exceptions where anyone wants to, and where they don't want to vote. And that's why we're going to demand right now that we ask questions about the elections in Kiev as a whole so that we don't embarrass Kiev or abuse the Chinese. And as for, you know, these remarks about who will or will not be men, I think those who raise their hands on women should think for themselves about their behavior, and is that male behavior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u15	I'm asking from Fatherland, the faction manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u16	Vladimir Vasilovich, Jacinuk is my last name. God be with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u17	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a request for you. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you, when you give your word, there's this button, called "Enroll in the Show." When you say I want to give you my word, say, "Five minutes to go." And in the electronic system, everyone will log in. We want Parliament to work faster and make it easier for you. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u19	Thank you so much for your science, you have experience. I'll have that experience in a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u20	A year from now, Vladimir Vasilovich. It's too long a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u21	Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u22	Second, Vladimir Vasilovich. There are Communists here who are not voting with you right now. I understand that they didn't vote for the election in all the cities because they know they're losing them. And they're not demanding pension reform, they're probably demanding some kind of money from your government, as always. But if they demand something else, then let them sign a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers. We've collected 174 signatures, and we're going to register the government's mistrust resolution. Communists, join us!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u23	Everyone made a statement. I was given the results of a roll-call. I'm reporting. The faction of the Regional Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 10.45 did not register 15 deputies. Maybe somebody showed up, I don't know. Vasilyev, Ivanyushenko, Kluev, Lebedev, Markov. I saw Mark's, he's standing right there. There's a Kluev. I said I got 10.45. Destroyer, Adventurer, Zwania is here, see? I've been playing cards somewhere, I've seen it, I've got it. He's Cartoshov sitting down. Kolnikov Boris Viktorovich. The funnel is on its way. He's not yelling what you're yelling at, sir. Mironenko. Pinchuk wasn't registered, he's here. The saint is sick. And Hmelnicki. The Motherland Union. Janukovich is not registered. It's a faction of the Motherland union. The apostle, written: On a mission. Denzerski, Zubko, Kurpil (ship), Sergienko, Sobolev (ship), Teryochin, Boyko, Dubova, Caterinczuk, Medunica, Tears (ship, written). Get to know each other, all right. Suskewicz is sick, it's written. Is it Suškevitch? He's sick. It's hopy. Oh, I'm sorry. Schulga. Next. It's a faction of the political party. Averchenko, Palamarczuk, and Agafone’s disease The Freedom Union. You haven't checked in, who's here? Martiniuk is on his way. Pankevitch is on his way. It's cheap. Huh? I didn't register. The Communist Party of Ukraine. Spirina. It's post-faction. Zivago, Dusty. There's powder. And Moshensky. Where? Is it? You won't? I won't. These cards should not be voted on in the session room. I've already given you because you're behind us right now. Let us consider the question. Yeah? Let's take a look. A draft decision on the appointment of alternate members of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head (registration 1030) is in your hands. How will we deal with this issue in full or in short? Suggestions. Write down from the faction for a minute how we will consider this question. Jacinoc. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, this is the right thing to do when Parliament moves to the full procedure for the consideration of draft laws. We're not fast food, we're not McDonald's, are we? Where laws are passed in a matter of seconds that determine the fate of one of the largest nations in Europe. Where the proportion of 45 million Ukrainian citizens is determined in seconds. So the first request: let's step away from the reduced procedure. The second is regarding the procedure for considering this bill. We need everyone to hear and understand why elections are needed, why should the people of Ukraine have the right to exercise their constitutional right of choice, why should a new government in Kiev be needed, and why would the Party of Regions lose the Kiev elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u25	Who's next? Cliché. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, Kiev needs elections and, I think, there is no doubt here, we should also vote, as in all other elections that have voted in full procedure. We realize that there are plans to postpone the election, to move it to a different date. I want to remind you again, if the election doesn't take place on June 2, Kiyevrad will not be legitimate. And so once again, if we destroy self-government in Kiev, the first step in destroying self-government, the next step is dictatorship. We certainly don't want to go there, so I want to go to all the deputies, support the vote on this issue, after the elections in Kiev as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u27	I'm asking the Freedom faction, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u29	Please hand Illenko over to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u30	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We know about the plans that are in the Party of Regions today, to break the election process in Kiev, to postpone the election to 2015. [[B in m in s a l in]] As Mayor of Kiev, I call on the Party of Regions to stop the abuse of Kiev. Because you've done this to Kiev in the past three years because you've destroyed the local self-government in Kiev, you've placed an illegal Popov, whom no one has chosen, you've destroyed the district councils, you're robbing Kiev, you're taking 50 percent of the personal income tax, that's 8 billion dollars, every year you take from Kiev's budget. Stop this, the Mongol-Tatar ego over our city. You're going to go away and you're going to lose the election, and that's why you're afraid of them. Elections at once! We're looking at the full procedure and no transfer of elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u31	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the faction insists that the elections in Kiev be held in accordance with the current legislation, which provides for a decision to be taken by the Supreme Council on the date of the elections. The faction of the Company therefore supports the proposal and considers it necessary to vote. But I would consider it possible to propose that today we discuss whether all the legislative fields are ready for the elections in Kiev, in the capital of Ukraine, to take place in accordance with the current legislation and have no problem with the fact that the charges will be carried out in these elections. But I'm more concerned about what the oligarchic capital is again trying to do to take Kiev. And especially in Kiev today, there is a policy that is anti - Ukrainian, anti - Ukrainian. And in years of independence, representatives of the ionistic circles.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u33	But you listen to a man speaking Ukrainian. Party of regions, who? Please Chechetov. Listen to Chechchev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u34	Please, music! Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Unlike our political opponents, we will not prejudge the outcome of the elections. That is to say, in the sense of democracy, that the people will determine the winners, the people will choose worthy electors in the city of Kiev. But we speak only from one point of view that the decision on the date of the elections, the election decision and the Kiev Council and the Kiev measure should be taken exclusively in the constitutional and legal field of Ukraine. There should be no policy-making decisions here. In this regard, we ask today to consider this issue on a full programme, in order to examine the problem in detail, we have made no mistake and have adopted a truly correct constitutional legislative decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u35	Procedure, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u36	I would like to address our colleagues, Vitalia Klitschko, Arsenia Yatzenyuk: you will understand, please, your representative from the Freedom faction, which violates our Rules, which is the law in Parliament, we are prohibited from bringing special effects to the Hall. Therefore, please state the order in your order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u37	All of it! Let's work! We're working. A full discussion procedure is proposed. I'll remind you, a report from the committee to 10 minutes, a report to 5 minutes, as appropriate, a question to 3 minutes, statements from factions to 3 minutes, speeches by national deputies to 3 minutes, and a closing statement, and we'll make a decision. There is an offer to take an hour to consider the matter. May I put it to a vote? Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] We look at the hour, and we make decisions. It's a deal. Then let us give the floor to the report on this matter to the Ukrainian national deputy Karpuntsov Vitalyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, invited citizens of Ukraine! For no one is there a secret to the great justification and the need for the adoption of this project. If we move away from the formal things that are recorded in the explanatory notes, as always, we need to stress the following, we know that legally we have no legitimate urban head for over a year, and we really don't have it for over three years. Unfortunately today, and for a long time -- not a year, not two of us have a Kyiv City Council that doesn't really represent the Kyiv community. If you're taking a legal component, there's not even a legal faction of Leonid Chernewick. It was once the largest faction in the Kyiv City Council, it was the faction that organized all the thefts that were repeatedly raised, including in this room. There will be no question on the committee's explanatory note, a draft decision by the people's deputies Klick, Kowalczuk and Karpunts regarding the appointment of the election of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head on June 2nd, really, it is based on the completion of the legal mandate of the Kiev City Council, and the end of the mandate of the Kiev City Council. But in fact, as early as February 19, 2009, a decree was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which created a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, adopted by officials of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head. And according to the work of this Temporary Investigation Commission, it was agreed that both the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Chief violated the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This conclusion was adopted on 11.02. In 2010, the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council's ruling. That is, all the legal grounds, according to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, for holding the successive elections of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council in the Supreme Council were available. Sadly, though, when the law was passed that regulated the electoral procedure and that was followed by an election. And by determination. There have been elections all over Ukraine -- Peter Mikolaiovich, I am addressing you -- unfortunately, for the initiative of Adam Ivanovich, your deputy, deputy head of the Supreme Council, has been made into a "transitional position" amendment, according to which the elections of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council, as well as the Ternopil District Council, have unfortunately not been held. That is, the Supreme Council for legal reasons for the conduct of early periods illegally, not in a constitutional way, under cover of silence of nights, and cards, has made changes that have deprived the Kyiv community of real local self-government. I am grateful to National Deputy Gordjenek Sergey Volodymyrovich, who, yesterday, when considering the ruling on parliamentary hearings regarding the non-enforcement of human rights, pointed out accordingly that one of the most valuable rights is the right to choose and be elected. And indeed, the Constitutional Court said that the turnaround of elections is an important condition for the observance of the Constitution and the rights of Ukrainian citizens. And the non-election of the elections is a violation of the Supreme Council of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Peter Mikolaiovich, if you are aware of your guilt that you have also deprived the Kyiv People's Party of local self-government, now do not violate the Rules, because you must vote in favour, "against", "resisted". Show your position. In this case, we urge you to support the decision on the appointment of the next election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head on June 2, 2013 -- and correct that unfortunate mistake that was made by your faction in 2010. Once again, this is the Kyiv Council. There is nothing to say about the city head of Kiev: everything is said. The city council of Kiev, unfortunately, does not represent the Kyiv community at all. I've already mentioned that the fact that there aren't even factions currently voted for by the community. The faction of Leonid Chernewsky was the basis of that driving force of the theft in Kiev. The level of support for the Party of Regions in this Kiev City Council is 6 deputies, only 6 deputies elected by the Kiev community, from 120th. You don't have any more support. But it is clear that all and a group of Kiyiv treasurers are guaranteed authority to enrich their own preservation, their integrity, and their integrity (in the absence of a deputy). The local councils, their authorities, this authority, guarantee the inviolability of being touched) have passed softly into the team that is now in control. And of course, the Party of Regions will never get as many votes as they have today, so that's where the entire team of the Chernovetsk region moved on to the Party of the Regions. And of course, the Party of Power is not interested in the election and the various scenarios are being played out, and now, thanks to this cover-up, Adam Ivanovich made a mistake and made changes to the Transitional Regulations of the Law, there is manipulation, an appeal to the Constitutional Court. We now have full legal grounds for holding the next election of the Kiev City Head, because, in fact, his mandate ended last year, and the Kiev City Council, whose mandate ends at the end of May of this year. There's a deadline. It's a five-year term. Over the term, the Constitutional Court also made clear in that decision, which Leonid Mikhajlovich lobbyed for the continuation of his own. Authorization. So far, the party of power has been removed, and he has continued to authorize only those deputies who have remained in Kyivrad. The same Constitutional Court said that the term of office was exclusively five years. For more than five years, the Kiev City Council will be illegal. And I would warn a party of authorities not to mess with that question. We know that the strike party faction is clearly aware that different scenarios are being played out in order to in any way ensure that the time comes to be responsible for the crimes committed in Kiev and the Chinese. The government is aware that the strike party has the highest support for the kyans. The government realizes that Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko has the highest rating in Kiev and Ukraine. In this case, the Party of Regions thinks that it will appoint city heads rather than appoint the Kiev City Council, divide positions, and thus influence processes. It won't affect! And yet I think, with the support of the Kyiv community, that the Kyiv community will force you to appoint, indeed, legal elections, to appoint them on June 2 to be legally elected, both the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council. In this case, everything. I would like to point out once again that from the formal part of the Ukrainian people's deputies from the UDA faction Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko, Vitaly Anatoliyovich Kovalczuk and Karpuntz have submitted to your consideration a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the next election of deputies to the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Council on June 2, 2013. The second paragraph of this regulation is also approved by the Central Electoral Commission in the order established by law to take action on financial, material and technical provisions for the preparation and conduct of these elections at the expense of the State budget. By paragraph 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within the limits of the authority to take immediate action to ensure funding for the next election of deputies, the Kiev City Chief of Staff and the Kiev City Council at the expense of the State Budget. Once again, strike party calls for you, colleagues. Reestablish local self - government in Kiev and return face - to - face with the Kiev community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u39	Thank you. I think you'll have to stay in the rostrum. The question is to the reporter? Please sign up. Zarubinsky, please, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear colleague, I'd like you to clarify. Your legislative initiative concerns, I take it, the date of the elections. Please tell me if there are any changes to your legislative initiative regarding the electoral system. Because from the media, I've done a Digest, an analysis for myself, your leaders, including the leader of your faction, often enough talk about changing the electoral system, so that it's two rounds to bring together the positions and heads of administration, and the city heads, and so on. So you're suggesting that the second June elections should follow the two-track system? So that there can be unity? Are you proposing elections for the same system that is valid today? It's very important because there's manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u41	I thank you very much for asking. It's quite right. The decision made by Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klick applies not only to the date but also to the type of election. It's the next election. And that's an important question. Because you're an experienced parliamentarian, you know that the formation of committees also depends on elections, on the type of elections. As to those questions that you asked. Tours, the unification of positions. I want to point out that in the first days of Parliament's work, the impact faction, directly the leader of our faction, also the leader of our faction, and with our opposition colleagues, a number of legislative initiatives were introduced. This includes combining the positions of the city’s Kiev head and the Kiev City Council. This includes counting 50 percent of the income tax in Kiev's budget. This includes a draft Act on the election of a city head. But, no, and this is regulated by laws, not by decree, I apologize. Including, I'll finish with your permission, it's a two-round election bill, not just in Kiev, but all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u42	Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u43	including change and systems. And at the moment, we have the opportunity, I mean Parliament, because it depends on Parliament, whether they vote or not. These projects are implemented. If we look at them this week in the first reading, tomorrow, for example. Vitali Volodymyrovich spoke at the beginning of the week. Let's get these acts into the hall and look at it in the first reading. Then, in early April, we can capture them in the second and in general. I see. Well, it's the will of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Council. I'm afraid I can't dictate it. If it were my will, we'd be looking at it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u44	Thank you, thank you. Right. Who's next? It's... it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u45	Dear Valery Vitaliyovich, please tell us whether there is any law in Ukraine that would give the Supreme Council the right to appoint elected representatives of the elected representative bodies on its own or, in this case, to continue their mandate for more than two years, more than citizens have already chosen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, no act guarantees such authority. Moreover, I would like to point out once again that in 2010, in an unconstitutional way, the Kyiv community was deprived of the opportunity to exercise its right to choose and to be elected, and did not hold the elections of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. Instead, to continue the five-year term of authorization of the Kiev City Council is purely self-government in this case, because both the Constitution and the law, and the Constitutional Court's decision, tells us that only in a five-year term is a full-fledged city council. Above all, all decisions adopted by this council will not be valid. And accordingly, I don't know how the local self-governance is going to be carried out by such a council that any citizen's decision may not be valid. How the work of the whole community will be carried out on the basis of not valid decisions. I mean, you can't do that, and of course there's no way to do that, even by the decision of this Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u47	Thank you. People's deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u48	Dear colleague, today we are all trying to follow the path of the Supreme Council that we need for European integration. Don't you think that if we block today's election decision from the mayor of the capital and Kyivrada, it will be the same as a blockade on the Euro-integration aspirations in Ukraine and it will be a hindrance to the signing of the agreement on Euro-integration in November 2013. Local self - government is one of the fundamental values of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u49	Thank you, Irina. Indeed, the right to choose and to be elected is one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the Constitution. The rights of local self - government and local self - rule are an important part of the life of our nation as a whole. And indeed, failing to abide by these principles is driving us away from the values that we are trying to declare by joining the European Union. But in addition to European traditions and values, I would also like to remind you of our Ukrainians. Kiev is a city that had the right of Magdeburg, everyone knows that. But I don't know if everyone knows that the position of entry in the cities of Magdeburg was what was appointed king. In Kiev, the only city was the gate. So Kiev is the city that has historically created local self-government in its purest form. At present, citizens are criminally deprived of that right. And yet, perhaps I would be more concerned with citizens and our fellow journalists right now. First of all, show us how many deputies are present in this matter so that we know clearly who is interested in these questions and who is not. And second to the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u50	Thank you, your time is up. Have a seat. [[Applause]] The word is given for a report to David Zhuani, the chairman of the committee. Please. You have five minutes, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u51	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Rybak, discussed at its meeting on 6 March 2013 the draft Decision on the appointment of the alternate election of the deputies of the Kiev City and Kiev City Heads (registration No. 1030), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vitali Klick, Vitali Kovalczuk and Valeri Karpuntsov, which is proposed to appoint the next election of the deputies of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head on Sunday 2 June 2013. The committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the appointment of the alternate election of members of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Head (registration No. 1030) as a result of the first reading, on the basis and as a whole. I want to say to myself that the committee was working on this issue and before making a decision. And we also held a round table and invited experts. And the discussion was on a professional level. And there were different thoughts. Thoughts agreed that the elections were to be held. But I would also like to point out that the analysis of the provisions of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine give every reason to believe that the election of the Kyiv City Head and the deputies of the Kyiv City Council is in the field of legal uncertainty and has long gone into the political legal plane. So, my dear, honourable deputies, all in your hands, we've moved the matter out of place, and now this is for you, vote on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u52	Is there a question for the committee manager? Please sign up. By factions, please sign up. And to the deputies, ma'am. Fedoruk, the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u53	Please give me your word. Oh, is that a question? Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u54	The Bible, the United “Freedom. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u55	They gave me the word. May I speak? Dear David Vazievich, you are absolutely right, indeed, the decision of the committee was so. But I'd like you to raise another question that's now in the agenda: financing these elections. The committee asked the Ministry of Finance, the Central Electoral Commission, for a budget committee to renew the funding, the calculations that the CEC proposed at the beginning of the year. And that's an extra 32 million for this election, at least. Therefore, I ask that we announce our position once again and turn to the Ministry of Finance, surely this sum is now, immediately after the decision has been made to reserve and allocate from the state budget. Because we're already having a bad time when it's because of the non-funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I'll answer that. In fact, the committee sent a request to the Ministry of Finance for allocating money for the Kiev elections and other elections that we voted for today. Because we now have 16 million, that's not even enough to hold the elections that we voted for. But we got the answer: there's going to be elections, there's going to be money. So today we're going to vote, if the election and the election date are set, then the money will be provided by the Ministry of Finance. That's the answer we got. I also want to point out that not only in money, but after the liquidation of the district administrations in Kiev, in principle, we destroyed the electoral commissions. Even the only election commission available today — the territorial commission — can in principle carry out its duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u57	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u58	Only in that case, if there's an out-of-the-box election. Now the committee unanimously decided that there should be another election, and we don't have another exit. Therefore, the commission that now exists in Kiev will not be legitimate. Therefore, it is also a matter for us to decide on the appointment of new commissions. And that's what he needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u59	Thank you. Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u61	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u62	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Dear colleague, I'd like to conceptually ask you this question. In view of the delay in the election process of a city’s head, especially in Kiev, and this has symbolic significance for local self - government throughout Ukraine, I am considering this issue in the context of the systematic destruction of local self - government. How do you feel that it is appropriate for us to legislate that such elections by city, village, village, and village heads take place automatically in the same way as the deputies of local councils, not according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u63	I think it's inappropriate, because someone has to be a referee or the Central Election Commission, or the Supreme Council. And I think in this case it's perfectly logical that the Supreme Council is a reference. I want to assure you that the Supreme Council is a very intelligent body, and you and I today have demonstrated this, not to allow this precedent for Vasilkov. The committee unanimously considered yesterday, and the reasons for the election of the Supreme Council is the statement of the head. There was a head application, a voluntary application. a voluntary application, so no court rulings, council or other institutions were taken into account. And it's going to continue. So I think the Supreme Council is doing its job, and I think it should.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u64	Thank you, sit down, time's up. I'm asking you, we've got the factions, the speeches are from the deputies. Please sign up for the factions. It took three minutes, and we agreed to do the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed to a three-minute performance from the factions. Then the MPs will sign up, and the hour. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything will be as agreed. Leonov, Freedom Union, three minutes, please. Illenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The elections in Kiev are, indeed, a topic that today concerns not only China, but probably all Ukrainians, because Kiev is the capital and because what is being done in Kiev is somehow reflected in everything that is being done in our country. Now the main thing is that we have to run city council and city council elections in Kiev. This question is extremely urgent, because what happened to Kiev in the last three years, that is, when it came to power in 2010, this regime is an unprecedented destruction of local self-government, which the capital did not know for all time. We don't actually have a legitimate city head for over a year, but Kiev is run by a man that no one has chosen. District councils are being destroyed today because in 2010 the Party of Regions was afraid to lose the elections to the district councils and they were eliminated altogether. Today, Kiev is the only region in Ukraine that pays 50 percent of its income tax to the government budget, more than eight billion dollars a year. This is the money that is made in Kiev, which the Chinese pay out of their salaries and they don't stay in Kiev, Kiev is unprecedentedly discriminated against in our country today, unfortunately, and I feel like a cyanine, like a senior deputy from Kiev is in a lot of pain. So our position, the factions of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First. Elections must be held immediately. The other one. We don't have a right to any first reading, it has to be a decision in general, and we're underlining it, and no later than June 2. And certainly what we have to do, we have to understand that if the Party of Regions or the pro-government forces continue to block this issue and continue to take the right to choose their power into the kyans, then all we have to do is go to the kyans, to all the Ukrainians and appeal to them, see what happens, see what happens, see how your rights are taken away from you as your feet wipe out about you. We should not have double standards when some territorial communities have the right to local self-government and others do not have the right to local self-government. The important thing is that we must stop the usurpation of power that is taking place in Kiev. Because today and Kievrada, which is a completely ineffective organ, is not attached to the kyans, it is a dead body composed mainly of the former Chernevsky faction, which has been looting Kiev for years and which has been running around in some non-existent, one-day party or public factions, and they have absolutely no effect on the situation in the city, but they are engaged in corruption and looting. That is why we will not give up Kyiv; we must make choices, go to these elections. I'm sure that the democratic forces, the opposition forces, will win these elections, and those who have usurped power in Kiev, those who abuse kyans, will get decent reprisals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u66	National Deputy Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, respectable Kiewians! The Company's faction supports the holding of elections in Kiev on 2 June, because it is the June 2 elections that are special elections, because they depend on the future of both Ukraine and Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll see whether the June 2 elections will stop the negative, destructive processes, or whether they will continue. The question is, Who will come to power in Kiev? Thanks to the Communists of Kiev, he was the world’s famous capital of Soviet Ukraine, for it was a prosperous city, a science - developed city, a growing production. But now, with the participation of the oligarchic Kyiv Council and the entire nationalist authority, which was in Kiev for 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to understand where the pride of the Ukrainian people and Kiev's Arsenal is? Where'd the Bolshevik go? Where's the Mayan factory, Radar, Darnicki silk combination, Lenin cousin, shoe factory, Meridian factory? Where did all this go, gentlemen of nationalists and oligarchs? Where was the national acquisition, which was truly the pride of the Ukrainian people and the city of Kiev? Parks and green areas are being destroyed, illegal construction, and children’s playgrounds are being destroyed. It was you who, when you were on the Kiev Council for 20 years, allowed this unplanned oblivion just because you were building a very expensive apartment. Cultural values are being destroyed. Where'd the Longstreet Cinema, Ukrakinochronic, book publishing go? Libraries are now becoming commercial centers. Kiev has become a drug center, a center of anticulture that kills the souls of our young people. Political charlatans today bring non-professionals, and this non-professionalism leads to the destruction of the city of Kiev and the destruction of values that are the values of the people of Ukraine. They choose showmen, junkies, oligarchs. It is you who, esteemed and disrespected, that I will not call here, especially those who have imposed a policy of destruction and the State for 20 years, including that reflected in the capital of our Ukraine. We Communists are worried about that today. And, esteemed Kievers, we urge you not to believe those who once again lead you into political fornication and try to impose on you what they are capable of. It is the communists who are leading the city of Kiev that have established this unique centre, which we have with you to this day, that we have the opportunity to be proud of. Everyone else who comes to Kiev today comes with personal interests, enriches and recharges their own pockets. Communists against this and today call on Kiev not to support these political forces that continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Who's from the faction? Heroschenka, Vitaly Klitschko Faction. Please. Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I want to address each of you, to the deputies now, many have come from the regions, but they live in Kiev now and see where Kiev is now. We all know Kiev is an industrial, cultural, historical center, and unfortunately today I, all of those living in Kiev, cannot be proud of it because everything is destroyed today, and the standard of living, the conditions of life, Kiev, and Kiev is a visit to Ukraine, it's a lamus paper, and we can tell what processes are going on in Kiev, and we can talk about these same processes that are going on in the depths or in any region of Ukraine right now. Why is such a situation in today’s Kiev? We're talking a lot about the past of power, about Mr. Chernewecki, who was always not in a place that he traveled somewhere, in fact in Kiev the mayor of Kiev hasn't been in many years, because there was no Chernewsky, then he went away, and now the second year he's gone, when Kiev doesn't have any measure at all. How long is this situation going to go on? We can talk about the robbery of Kiev by Mr. Chernewicki, but I would like to remind you once again how an MP in the Kiev City Council was present when the vote was taken. Burglary of parks, squares, destruction of cultural monuments And unfortunately, the Party of Regions on the Kiev City Council, I want to pay attention, has always voted with Mr. Chernevski. Moreover, in 2010, we hoped that a new authority would come, that the situation would change. We were promised to improve our lives so that they could hear us. And first, Mr. Popov, the head of the administration, declared 70 billion dollars, once again, I want 70 billion dollars of Kiev lost in the Chernevski era. Which means I lost, everyone knows. This money was stolen. Sadly, though, an official statement is made. There was no further action. Why? Everybody understands. Our country can be redeemed. It's a question of money. We all understand today -- it's very important to change the situation in Kiev, to return the Chinese to self-government. So that the Chinese can influence the processes that are taking place in Kiev. And I want to say, our faction certainly, and I want to address each and every one of you, upholds the decree, the vote of the decree as a whole. I appeal to each and every one of you to support and understand how important the issue of Kiev’s city elections is. And I address every deputy. The Supreme Council, after all, must restore Kiev’s local self - rule. This is a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u70	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The 48 national deputies asked the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to interpret the rules of the Constitution and to explain whether the elections to local authorities could be held at different times. The 2010 local elections were scheduled under the Constitution on December 8, 2004. However, these 2010 elections were held after the Constitution was restored on June 26, 1996. The Constitution is now in force as of February 1, 2011. In the three texts of the Basic Law, it is not possible to move forward without the conclusions of the Constitutional Court. What do you want to do? Suggested draft Decision Vitali Volodymyrovich to accept as a basis and, following the verdict of the Constitutional Court, to vote in general. It is important for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, to request the Constitutional Court to consider the constitutional application as soon as possible, and to hold the elections in Kiev as soon as possible. It's real. Then the mayor of the capital and the deputies of Kyivrada will be legitimate, working on a legal basis. And those who lose will not be able to speculate that elections are not valid. We urge the people’s chosen ones to act in the legal field. I think everyone's interested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u72	Odarchenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! The right of Ukrainian citizens to participate in elections is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Look at the calls from the Party of Regions today. They are now proposing to vote on this decision in the first reading. It is no different from what we voted on half an hour ago, and therefore we must vote on it as a whole. They now want to use their pocket money and the Constitutional Court to prevent elections in Kiev. Dear friends! Dear voters! You remember how Janukovic, through the Constitutional Court, abolished the Constitution, broke the system that was in Parliament a few years ago. He's clearly using the Constitutional Court tool to break democracy in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today’s composition of the Kyiv City Council was elected in the 2008 election. And the current Constitution of Ukraine predicted the term of office chosen for any council election to be 5 years. Our colleagues today suggest that we turn to the same court, but they have forgotten that this issue has already been considered and has been considered in connection with the issue of elections in Kiev, that the court has already rendered a final decision. Dear friends, by his decision, he indicated that the term of office of the local councils elected for the consecutive and consecutive elections is exactly five years. And on the basis of this decision in 2010, you did not appoint elections in Kiev and the elections of the Ternopil District Council. In addition, the court noted that the next election was due to the end of the term of office of the appropriate council or of the respective head. So there can be no questions about the election time. And, dear friends, any attempt to delay elections in Kiev, they will lead to the destruction of local self-government in Kiev. Once the constitutional term of office of the city’s head and council has ended, they cannot make any decisions. Galina Gerega will also lose her rights. All decisions taken after June 2 will be brought against the court as illegal. Dear friends, I understand that the authorities like to have such a system. I'm going to give you an example that's very showy. Imagine the conflict around the guest house. Why does the authorities not bring it to its end and solve the problem? They valued the Guest Court with 21,000 bracelets. And today it is passed on to those who need it. And that's because there's no local self-government that Kiev is run by a puppet appointed by the Party of the Regions. I urge you to support Vitali Klick's decision and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u74	We have time for the national MPs to speak. People's deputies please sign up. We've got about 20 minutes to get the MPs on the show. Heratchenka, Vitalia Calla. Please. She'll be followed by Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u75	Irina Heratschenko, Vitaly's Faction Strike Call. Dear colleagues, it is clear that what kind of pharisaicism is now taking place in the session hall and why are all these statements happening about what we have there today in the first reading to accept, then wait for the Constitutional Court to decide? I have a question for most people. Why did you take Vlasenko's mandate to our colleague without waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision? How long will this double treatment of laws continue in this country and everything that is happening in the country? No Constitutional Court! Today, all factions must vote in favour of the election in Kiev. It is our atonement in front of the chiyans, who, because of your games, friends of the majority, have no more than two years. And obviously why this is happening, they're afraid of the Call, whose score today in Kiev is three times what all the candidates in power, the obvious, the hidden, the official, the unofficial combined. You know, be a man, like Nestor Schufrich said, don't be afraid. Please vote for the election today, go to them, and compete honestly in these elections. Moreover, not only do we have to set an election date, but the authorities have to take responsibility for it to be fair and transparent, not as in one district, where they still count ballots. Because this is our obligation to the European Union: to hold fair and transparent elections to the Eastern Partnership Summit. Consider the situation that is taking place in Kiev today, the return of self - government to the Chinese, the return of the measure of his authority, the permission of the Chinese to exercise their authority over the city, and not the governor of Yanukovic. Moreover, no Chinese allowed Yanukovich the right to place his governor. It was absolutely his initiative. And we want to say that this shows the same level of the Constitution and how you feel about it. Today all factions have voted in favour of Vitalia Klitschka, Vitalia Kovalczuk, and Valery Karpuntsov for the election in Kiev. And I especially want to talk to the sneezes. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this vote, this is actually the lakus paper that will explain the attitude of the 440 deputies present in the hall, Kiev, respect for the capital of Europe and for every cyanine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u76	It's Vitaly Klitschka, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u78	Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u79	Victor Chumak, 214 district of Dniprovsky district, Kiev Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Respectable squires! I want to tell you that I've remembered Kiev in the last five years. Kyiv remembered his city head, which had absolutely no head. Kyiv remembered that. Kyiv remembered this Kyiv council because it kept busy exclusively in the land of Kiev. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to go out on the street, get out of the car, get out on the left bank of Kiev, walk through the streets of the capital, walk down the left bank, look at the neglected state of the road today, see the neglected state of the small, small neighborhoods in Kiev today, see the neglected state of the houses today, as the roofs run, as the driveways are not repaired. I want to tell you that as a senior deputy, I've been seeing people very often, and I've already had eight personal sessions in my district. What I'm saying is that the Kiev elections are of great interest to the Chinese. The Kiev elections for the Chinese are a very serious motivation. I want to tell you that it is clear why this constitutional application came about. What's there to interpret, ladies and gentlemen?? The Constitution sets out very clearly the deadline for the authorization of city, village, and rural councils. Five years, please, that's it. And we finish this comedy, why go on with this Kiyevrada again. I want to say that any authority, if it's in power, it has two ways of developing itself: either this authority adheres to the laws, adheres to democratic standards, adheres to democratic procedures, adheres to the requirements of all necessary constitutions and conducts legitimate, honest, democratic and transparent elections, or this power is taken out by the people sooner or later by the people on the land, on the villas, whatever they want. I'd like to ask very much of you, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you very much, this is our vote, this is a lamus paper on the relationship between Kiev and Kiev. I'd like to ask you very much. Don't let the Chinese take this power out of the Kyiv city administration's premises again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u80	Please, Fatherland faction, Abdulin. Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u81	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, if we take into our hands the little book "The Constitution of Ukraine," which gives us the right to exist in other laws, defines their orientations and their essences -- there's a five-article article that directly states that the only source of power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people, but it's the only subject. So let's ask ourselves, and if we don't randomly vote in Kiev and there are people in power who don't have the right to do that anymore, then we break the Constitution, we violate the right of the Chinese to choose power. This is fundamental in this regard. So today, when we look at this issue, we have to be absolutely clear, 2 numbers is the first time after the legitimacy of the Kiev City Authority has been completed, which can't control Kiev any more days, because all its decisions will be illegal. Why is a new authority needed? I can't imagine that this power, which is now in Kiev, local self-government, this council elected by Chernevski and the Chernewsky will, will solve such fundamental issues as the replication of district councils that are absolutely necessary in Kiev. These organs were never burdensome, financially speaking, but they were looking at small and small issues of the population, people had access to them, they were communicating with MPs. So the council needs to be re-created in Kiev. We need to go back to the Master Plan, which is now submerged, torn and destroyed, in fact, by the chaotic structures that tear the city apart, and we have no prospect. I think the decision of the new council today is to adopt a completely different pattern of relations with the area, to approve about eight joint programmes: road construction, ecology, sanitation, labour resources, food resources and much more, which is close and the same for Kiev, and there is nothing to share. We need to find the possibility that the Cabinet of Ministers see these problems as common problems in the Kyiv district. This council will not do so; it today receives the rest, distributes the rest of the earth. If anyone wants it, if anyone wants it, I've already told them to turn the rest of their property over to their privates, as some leaders and oligarchs from different, true, political powers do, it can be done today without the decision to test the council. But how can it be approved? It can be adopted by breaking it to pieces, passing it to the Constitutional Court, and then, in fact, moving away from the election order. Therefore, elections today should be announced in Kiev, a date, and in general a decree that will enable us to resolve other issues. Otherwise, elections in Kiev can be buried. So I urge you once again today to vote on the whole of the decision made by Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klick, and all the other issues that arise will be addressed in the next. As for the mayor, I want to say that Kiev cannot be ruled by a man who has never ruled anything, created any successful firm, or managed any unit. We have to think, and that's what the sneezes should be thinking, not us here with you, in this room. We are, too, but the cynics are mostly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u82	Freedom Union, Yank People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u84	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u85	Dear friends! You and I have a fantastic moment to give to the people of the capital of our state a gift, because we all know that at the end of May our capital, our Kiev, is celebrating City Day. And we realize that the election is going to be a second number, it's going to be a kind of gift for the people of our capital. But we also understand that this gift, it stands before a great question mark, because, unfortunately, the Pharisee has a dominant element in our lives right now, and we're making concessions with you, transgressions that, well, do not belong to normal people who communicate normally, who can look into each other's eyes and most importantly, feel the soul of each other. Because how we feel that under this dome, the first thing that's lost is the absolute reality of life that happens outside the Supreme Council. And you and I understand that there are people on the street waiting for the decision to take place here. What's it going to be? And will it ever be? Because we could still make this gift yesterday, if it wasn't for the famous question that was being settled with regard to the city of Vasilkova, and for the famous decision of the court regarding the problems that Vasilkov and Vasilkov had. Now the exact decision of the court that was in Vasilkov is no different than that of the 48 deputies on the interpretation of what the Constitution dictates or any other time. I have to tell you, dear friends, the interpretation will give us the Ukrainian people and it's very simple, and it won't wait for the terms. And we need to understand that, and realize that our stay in the Supreme Council is primarily due to the great faith and the great faith of positiveness that we have to radiate with you. I'm calling on the Communist Party to support, support, support this project, and necessarily, the most important thing, when we vote, is that what happens in the capital is a kind of projection that goes into the future of our nation's life. And we understand that Europe, which sees what's happening in our country, understands that it's not a simple situation or a double morality that exists in our country, that it must sooner or later be wiped out from the face of the earth, well, it's clear, it's the understandable things that we are adults with you people and it doesn't make any sense to say. I want to address all of us again, and I want to address the faction leaders, please, dear friends, let's support this decision, vote it out as a whole, and make a great gift to Kiev's Chinese days. And you'll see that our attitude will be completely different. Give God Your Health!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u86	The national deputy of Labunsk. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Kiev is a unique city and a place in the world not only by its history, by its beauty, by its architecture, by its location, but also by its unique location, because it is the only capital in the world that has no legal measure chosen by the Chinese. It is also unique because today’s authorities, unlike the predecessors who granted Kiev the Magdeburg Law hundreds of years ago, today’s authorities have deprived Kiev of local self - rule, the ability of the Chinese to own themselves. Today’s authorities have taken more than a mayor to Kiev — today’s authorities have taken 8 billion dollars into Kiev’s budget for this year’s removal, and today they do not repair the roads in Kiev, not repair the roofs of residential buildings, not repairing the driveways, not lighting the streets on residential vehicles. Today’s authorities have taken Kiev through Kyivrada, stealing land, stealing property, stealing resources. It's nonsense! Having all the oligarchs here, in Kiev, having a financial center, having everything to do with it, ask for money to support hospitals, schools, to pay municipal payments to pensions, wages, and so forth. And so my colleagues are talking to the representatives of the Party of Regions, asking them to vote in general. They won't vote, because the Party of Regions doesn't want these elections for one reason: it loses them, it loses them, it loses Ukraine, it loses the elections in Kiev. And that's why they're going to lay bones, they're going to do whatever you want, but they're not going to vote for the election, because in Kiev, the fate of the presidential election is going to be decided. And in the Party of Regions, not so stupid are they sitting down to give Kiev the opposition, and then in the presidential elections that they're going to forge, the opposition has its mayor and its city power. And that's why I'm addressing representatives. to the opposition deputies. Obviously, there is no need for an election of power. You and I need to unite and hold a referendum in Kiev if the authorities fail to hold an election, a referendum to raise a few questions. First. The unification of the city’s headship and the mayor’s authority. The other one. It's a two-round election. So that Greeks do not win, but those who use most of the support of the Chinese. Third. The reduction in the number of deputies twice is from 120 city councils to 60. And most of all. If the authorities don't appoint an election, we, the opposition parties, have to conduct them ourselves. We'll set up a strike committee in Kiev, raise the men and appoint them, hold the elections without you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u88	Please. People's MP Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u89	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, a worthy community! I would like to turn from this rostrum to the entire hall, to all the kyans, and to all the citizens of the country with a call. We have a huge risk of losing local self-governance, taking out the sneezes of the main constitutional right -- the right to choose and determine power. I can tell you that in the last few months, kyans have been constantly discriminated against. And it's not just that Kiev's budget is in violation of the clear requirements of the Budget Code and the Local Self-Government Act, which excludes funds from their income base. This is because the property that belongs to the Chinese is completely irreparably transferred to the state or often-difficulty property. That's what the Kuyans are trying to do right now, and they're trying to deny us the right to determine who's going to run the city in the near future. Look at the politics of double standards. We have just voted on dozens of subjects of local self - government, who have been given a clear date of election in clear compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. You are nowhere in the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, where the Supreme Council’s decision on the date of the election is taken as unblemished, that is, as a basis, and then the date of the election is changed. There is no change in this procedure, because the constitutional function of the Supreme Council is one: to determine the date, no other position should be included. All the other things that need to be taken in order to hold the elections, and that's two tours, and that's the budget changes, and that's the change in the formation of the local commissions, it's going to have to be the rules of the individual legislation that we're going to have to adopt this week. But in order to open this process, right now the entire room has to vote in Kiev on June 2. And the second. Since when has this appeal to the Constitutional Court proved to be a basis for delaying the date or delaying the decision of the Supreme Council? It's a very clear behavior that determines that some political forces in this room are trying to fool the Chinese, to deprive them of their election rights. And I'm convinced that both the Chinese and the conscious national deputies will not allow this to happen, and today we're going to vote on the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u90	The last speaking Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u91	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Your Honorable colleagues, the dignitaries, now, of course, the regions will be here showing that they are in the election, and the days will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, which will make these elections impossible. At the same time, it means nothing. I don't care what I choose to be! Because Kiev has had a Hungarian right since the Middle Ages. And so the election will be sooner or later. This better happen on June 2nd, not play with it. And we need to make it, the opposition, the two-round election. And the city's head and head of administration is one person, one job! Then it's real self-government. And what's going on in Kiev is under the control of the sneezes. Otherwise, no! Now it's an occupation regime that's going to continue without looking at the Chinese. But why these elections? Because Kiev may seem to be doing well. Now, if the Constitutional Court decides that there is no need for elections, then they're in charge of what's happening now. What now? Look at the winter. How many people have been injured. Do you know how much Kiev's budget is for one visit to a trauma site?Oh, my God! Two bracelets! Greens and bandages are no longer enough! Thousands of people with broken arms were injured this winter. Now. The temperature in the dwellings. You know, 18 degrees has to be in Kiev to make sure that these services are considered normal. And if you don't, you don't have to pay. For example, 14 degrees in your apartment, you don't pay by law anymore. Respectable squires! You received payments due to the fact that you have a temperature below the standard, that is, in February, that is, in January, in December and even November, do you not pay for utilities?Oh, my God! Oh, no! We all got payments, we have to pay on time and in full. Third. So they don't want to change either. Investments. They accepted a program that would bring billions into Kiev. Dear friends! In order for Kiev to implement more or less the investment programme, you have to increase it 10 times in the equivalent of the euro. How will the money get here when there's no self-governance? What kind of investor would be so stupid that he would start investing billions of euros here, as the Kiev program provides, knowing that an official at any moment can take everything away and take it away?Oh, my God! And the last. What are the investments when the government removes everything from Kiev?Oh, my God! Kiev is 19 percent of the country's gross domestic product. But Kyiv's poor, he's got Azarov, he's taking everything away. And that's why the wheels are beating the kyans, and that's why the arms are breaking, the legs are breaking, and this is the Party of Regions is obviously going to be setting up. That's why our job is to make choices. We vote, and Kiev will still be with the mayor. And that's got to be human.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u93	And it must be a person who understands more than anything on economic issues. This will be the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u94	A word. for the closing word of Karpuntsov. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work until the issue is resolved. Final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u95	Vladimir Vasilovich, you or by your decision for 15 minutes continue or let them vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u96	For 15 minutes, we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u97	Vladimir Vasilovich, thank you. After yesterday's speech, you heeded the demands of the Strike Party, announced those who didn't register. The regular committee came through yesterday, they were all in full stock. Thank you. I ask you to follow the Rules. There is a committee decision to support the decision by voting on the basis and in general. The Supreme Council Rules do not provide for a ruling to be voted on in several readings. Please make this decision in order to arrive, and the voters will appreciate who wants to hold the elections in Kiev and who does not. Once again, no court in the country can narrow down the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council. And we have an obligation to appoint the election of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. Please support the decision made by the Ukrainian National Deputies Klick, Kwalczuk, Karpuntsz from the Strike faction and appoint the election of the Kyiv City Head and the Kiev City Council on June 2nd this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u98	Have a seat. Let's move on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been various suggestions. Most of the suggestions were to make a decision that was registered. And there are proposals for deputies. So there are two choices. The first option is that I'm going to put a decision to the vote that's registered, put it to the committee's consideration. Well, let's take it as a base. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Then let's do it. Sit down, get ready to vote. Please. I'm not done yet. Have a seat. Prepared for the vote? I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the appointment of the next election of the deputies of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head, which we have considered, on the basis and as a whole. On the basis and in general. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voices from the hall. Shame! Shame! Shame!]] [[12:10:16]] For-179 The factions. Region Party 7, Fatherland 84, Vitalia Klicka Strike 37, Freedom Union 33, Ukraine Company 0, non-factional 18. On the basis of the vote. Miroshnichenko, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vladimir Vasilovich, the point is that I am drawing your attention to the standards of our Rules. The procedure for considering regulations is the same as that of the bills. And I'll remind you, dear colleagues, if one of the deputies has a point, the chairman can't put a whole decision or a bill right away. Such remarks were made during the performances. That is why the Party of Regions proposes to follow the Rules and put the ruling first as a basis and then as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u100	I ask from each faction one performance at a time. Please, the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There is a clear requirement in the Rules, to vote on the rulings. And you and I have now voted about 170 decrees in all cities. The only question in this decision is the date of the election. There can be no election later than June 2, according to the Constitution, under the authority of the entire Council, and there cannot be a second and a half or a third June. The date is being considered exclusively today. And as the other rulings have voted, the Rules require us to vote by a single vote, in general, to adopt the date of the elections in Kiev. And the Party of Regions wants to raise that question. A party of regions wants to break up the elections in Kiev and not conduct them at all. That won't happen!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u102	Who's from the faction? On the basis of the vote, let's go. The Freedom Union. Please. Wait a minute. Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u103	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our esteemed voters, our respected dignitaries, look what's happening now, the Party of Regions and Communists are disposing of your right to choose your power, you see it now on the air. This is the price of these so-called politicians, who are afraid of going to elections, who make up all sorts of contrived excuses to postpone the elections, and so that they don't be ashamed of the whole of Ukraine, because they're losing this election. They know it, they're afraid of the sneezes. And that's why they're trying to take away your right to choose. It's completely preposterous for us to just make choices on the first reading. We just voted a hundred with some election decrees, and for Kiev, the capital wants to get rid of that right. It's a disgrace! You are invaders and usurpers! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u104	The United Vitaly Call. Chumak, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u105	Respectable squires! I want to draw your attention to this vote that just took place. In the entire democratic world, any extension of power beyond constitutional terms is usurpation. Today, we see what political power wants to usurp power. Moreover, I want to say that in the 2012 elections, the Chinese gave a clear answer, which political forces they support, and no vote was given to any of the districts by the parties of power. So today, everything is being done to remove the fumes of local self - government. I want to pay attention to the fact that we really have to move on to direct self-government in Kiev. And in any case, appoint and hold elections in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u106	Thank you. 12.15. Break for 30 minutes. Let's get back to work at 12:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce a recess for 30 minutes, two factions, the Fatherland faction and the Vitalia Klitschka faction, have requested a recess for the consultation. So I'm asking the faction leaders to come into the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council and we're going to look at the questions that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u108	Well, we'll announce, we'll talk to them now. Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u110	Why don't we let the deputies go before the meeting? Maybe by 16 o'clock the deputies let's just let it go and look at everyone. Let's agree on all the questions that we have? What's the offer? Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Vasiljevic, we have some new norms in Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we have Arsenius Petrovich determining how Parliament works, how do we approach him, what do we dissolve in two hours? There is a regulation that has been approved, so please act in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u112	I'm in accordance with the Rules. There's a break until 1:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Invite the deputies to the session room because there will be a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone. Jacinek Arseny Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u114	Honorable Members of Parliament! We believe that the elections in Kiev should be held. That is why we insist on a return to the assignment of uniforms in Kiev. We insist on making a decision. It may be accepted as a basis, but provided that the terms of consideration of this decree are cut short and submitted to Parliament for consideration for second reading and adoption as a whole. Our position remains unchanged. So we go back to the vote, we vote in favour of the bill, and we shorten the deadlines for this bill to be submitted to Parliament as a whole for up to two weeks in order to put a dot on this issue in the next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u115	They took a break. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! I'm very glad to have all the factions on the Conciliation Council now. The faction leaders agreed to do this: to support the vote as a basis. We all understand the importance of the elections in Kiev, and I hope that the vote on the elections in Kiev will now take place with the support of all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u117	Sit down! I'm not giving you my word, you didn't take it, it's the two leaders who took it. Please! I'm asking the deputies to listen. Faction leaders. I'm asking you to listen! Faction leaders reviewed the situation surrounding the election in Kyivrad and the city’s head of the city of Kyiv. In view of the state’s and capital’s exceptional importance, the question of the election of local self - government authorities is proposed (listen) in accordance with article 50 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules to move away from the procedure laid down in the Rules and to return to the consideration and voting of the matter. That's the first thing you've identified. The other one. In accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it is proposed to vote on the adoption of a decree (registration number 1030) in the first reading to be adopted as a basis. In line with article 116, part two, of the Rules, shorten the preparations for second reading and entrust the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government with a view to the consideration of the Supreme Council. I'll put it to a vote. Alexander Sergiyovich, please. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u118	Deeply respected Vladimir Vasiljevic, distinguished colleagues, we agreed that I would make some adjustments so that there would be no insinuations. First. We will support this decision because we originally came up with this proposal. And I thank our colleagues for eventually coming to him. Second. As a faction, we will decide only after the Constitutional Court has given an explanation. If he manages to give in time in a reduced procedure, then we will vote in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision; if not, we will wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to say that there is no insinuation to say that the Party of Regions is somewhere, lying to someone or somewhere, something is holding back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u119	Please listen. I am voting on the question of the return to the question of the appointment of alternate members of the Kyiv City Council and the Kiev City Head (register No. 1030). I'll bet you a vote. [[13:48:53]] For 287 Decision taken. "To" is 287. The factions. Region Party - 142, Fatherland - 75, Vitalia Klicka - 31, Freedom - 30, Company - 0, non-fractional - 9. May I have your attention, please? I propose to vote on the adoption of Decree (Registration No. 1030) on the basis of article 116, part two, of the Rules, to cut the deadlines for the second reading, and to entrust the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to the consideration of the Supreme Council. I'll bet you a vote. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:50:11]] For 293 The factions, please. Region Party - 146, Fatherland - 73, Vitalia Klicka - 33, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 9. I fulfilled that agreement clearly, which was on the faction leaders’ steering board. On the basis of the vote, Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen who wanted to hold elections in Kiev and who wanted to take the constitutional and legal path. Despite the fact that a large number of people who call themselves nonfractional or oppositional, who insisted on elections in Kiev, did not vote when it came to voting and to fulfilling their constitutional duty. So, dear fellows, let's not go any further when we come out of the rostrum, we block them because we need elections in Kiev. When it comes to voting in the session room, we do not take part in the vote. It's a very expensive time for every national MP. Let's save time and work productively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u121	On the grounds of the vote, Illenko. After the vote, just say the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u122	By vote. Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, most importantly, what we need to understand is that this question really has to be considered in the shortest terms. In no way can it be extended. Because that's how the Party of Regions and Communists are just going to provoke a revolution in Kiev because the Chinese are sick of it. Because no one will tolerate it anymore. And most importantly, why does the Constitutional Court have to decide the issue that lies within the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? In general, there is absolute legal absurdity and nonsensence when the Constitutional Court deals with and decides on such matters. Soon the Constitutional Court will replace all the public authorities, and we know very well that this court is handmade, and we know very well that it is cracking political decisions dictated on Banking Street. So the main thing is to look at it immediately and still get Kiev to have an election.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u123	Powder, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, a worthy companion! I'd like to address you by drawing your attention to the next one. First. There is no reference to the Constitutional Court in the text of the ruling, which is to explain the position of the Party of the Regions. Second position. The Constitutional Court did not for the moment reveal the conduct of 48 national deputies. This means that there are no prohibitions in the Constitutional Court, no restrictions on elections in Kiev. And the third is a very important position. What we have to have is a fixed date, and this is April 2. April 2nd, when we have to take the final decision to determine the date of the elections in Kiev on June 2nd. And then we'll see how and who does it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u125	Thank you. The Turks, please. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I want to continue with this idea that we really don't just have to make a decision in the next plenary week. Our sole competence for elections to take place in constitutional terms is to make a decision no later than April 2. This is the first day of the next session week, which is Tuesday. That's why, so I would ask that we immediately put this first question on the next sessional Tuesday. And then we have to vote together. And we have to speculate with the courts. The fact that we don't have judges in the country is not only the Ukrainians, but the whole world knows that all the courts are subordinated to the President's Administration. They can take a year, two, three to consider this question. Ukraine should live by the Constitution, not by the decisions of the President's Administration and the instructions of the majority who do not have the majority vote in this Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u127	The last act, the minute is Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! First. I am sorry that Peter Mikolaiovich of the rostrum said that he would vote in favour of the ruling as a whole, the faction did not vote and still did not vote, but this is their work. I'd like to see you. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, you must see to it that we follow the Rules. If we're moving away from the procedure and we need to vote for hot, because the reference to 116 articles is not valid, this is about the regulations that are bills. Accordingly, article 89 says that those decrees that contain a normative position may be bills and may be adopted in several readings. In this case, it's a regulation, it's voted on as a whole one time. But the Supreme Council can do anything. If necessary, make a decision that you will withdraw from the procedure and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-03-21-m0.u129	Thank you. We have considered the questions. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, let's get back to work.
