ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:28]] There were 302 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Bagraev Mikli Georgiyyovich and Baysarov Leonid Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] Let's say hello to our nouns. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, and messages to the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please cancel. Please cancel the recording. Please take a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Please sit down. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please sign up. The word is given to Timoshenko, the national deputy of Timoshenko, who is nonfractional. Is it Timoshenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Please pass the word to Jeremiah Igor Mironovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u3	Please, National Deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u4	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, we all understand that today Parliament has become a platform for political struggle. But in these battalions, very often we national MPs forget that we have the main employer, the Ukrainian people. In turn, the government is only the enforcer of legislative decisions. We are a state with complete paradoxes. The 2012 budget was broken by a deficit of 54 billion dollars, as is clear from yesterday’s government report. And officials continue to talk about what we have is that we have an economic growth. The word "improvement" in this country turns moose into an anecdote. Today, oil prices in Ukraine and the Excise Congregation have been compared to Europeans. This means that the excise congregation is sufficient to keep the roads in proper condition, but they are horrendous. There is no such paradox in any country in the world. The government claims that 500 billion dollars is needed to fully repair roads in Ukraine. But if you imagine that even we have such funds, where is the guarantee that they will be spent repairing roads? Who will guarantee that these funds will go for these very purposes? At present, billions of government funds are disappearing like water into the sand. I'll give you specific numbers. According to Minfin's official data, in 2012 there was a lack of government excise and VAT revenues of more than 4 billion dollars, in the current year 2013 these trends had only taken a turn – only 4 months ago there was a 35 per cent drop in tax revenues, more than 7 billion dollars. 12 billion dollars is a thousand miles [1.5 thousand km] of European automobiles. These are the billions that had to go to repair roads. If they were in the budget, they could almost double the debt of Ukraine, and today they reach 4 billion dollars. Please tell me how in a country with such a budget deficit there is no telling where 7 billion dollars can go? How might the government not react to catastrophic statistics? Just think about these numbers! Ukraine is a disgraceful country, and it is the 21st century. Today, we are talking about medical reform, and we are determined that in 20 minutes a sick person should be in the district hospital. No sick person under such conditions has any chance of getting to a hospital. That's what I'm trying to say. That they came to the country as hosts and lived as guests. That is the conclusion that comes to mind when you look at today’s sad day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u5	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u6	Please hand over Hennadia Hennadiovich Moskal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u7	National MP Moscal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Come on, come on up, it's time to get to work. Because as long as you're fighting against me fascism, the Fascists, organized by the governor of the Mikolai district of Kruglov, yesterday 80 men with guns, wounded five employees of the Kornatsky agro-firm, made raids and no militia, and so far they can't find anyone who attacked the Moscalenki family for 2-3 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the raids are preparations for the election, because there is no power for the candidate. If there is no candidate, today we have to destroy the candidate who has the highest rating in the region. The highest rating, no matter who doesn't fight, no matter what ways you take it, is going to be Kornatsky. And you're ashamed of yourself, a government that can't provide peaceful people who turned the militia into an armed squad of the Party of Regions, not defenders of Ukrainian citizens. Today the level of trust due to your party leadership is one percent. Today, there is a gap between the police and the population of Ukraine, which is occupied by gunmen, guns, and guns. Who is arming them and who will arm them, and what is the reaction today, none of the authorities today have declared their position. Destroying a person, preventing him from going to parliament, has already been done. The CEVC could not count, although the victory was made by Kornatsky. Now it's a raid, a gang attack, and it's not a single case. So why don't you talk about it and talk about me being fascist? I invited all the heads of the SBU and the Ministry of Internal Affairs who gave me the answer that there was no fascist in Ukraine. Who are you fighting against? Fight the bandits, the raiders, the round ones, who are at the same time the head of the Mikolai District Party. You are disgraced and disgraced by your servants! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u9	The word is given to the People's Deputy of Kinah, Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u10	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! In the Supreme Council, calls for patriotism, the protection of national interests, and so forth are very common in our plenary. I am absolutely convinced that issues of strategic importance to the state as energy security, the integration of Ukraine on a developmental basis as a modern state, territorial integrity and issues that cannot be the subject of the current, personal or political situation. And the results can only be achieved through the concentration of political will, intelligence, the interaction of branches of government, the President, parliament, government, local self-government and society as a whole. This is all systematically at a high professional level as required by the Constitution of Ukraine, including with the annual letter of the President of Ukraine. I would like to ask respectable colleagues, especially those who consider themselves opposition, who are against Ukraine's Euro-Integration Direction? Who is opposed to doing Ukraine's homework in the context of signing the EU Association Agreement and free trade? This is essentially the first phase of many years of work that allows us to build together in Ukraine modern European standards, on Ukrainian land. Who is opposed to clear formulations aimed at strengthening the energy security of the state? Who are opposed to strengthening the security of the state, especially when competition for clean air, drinking water, and land is on the rise? In a word, the most recent National Security and Defence Council meeting will be the adoption of a comprehensive national development programme for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including components including the defence and industrial complex. Regrettably, instead of a deep, systematic discussion, the search for solutions that suit national interests in this room is a shameful competition in eloquence, labels, accusations, insults. I'd like to warn you, dear colleagues. According to world experience, only the consolidated nations are victorious, those political powers that have the highest priority to view their country’s national interests. An example of Poland, a neighboring nation, has doubled its gross domestic product since 1990. Ukraine stopped at 70 percent. Therefore, dear fellow believers, put an end to this shameful opposition, do not lose valuable historical time, and work together to ensure that the Ukrainian people are part of the European, the world’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Freedom Union, National Deputy of Schweik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u12	Mr. Head! Mr. Deputies! The subject of my speech today is the situation in Ukraine with the implementation of an international agreement made by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence of the United States. This is a biological threat reduction project in Ukraine. It is not the assistance of the American side, it is an international treaty whereby Ukraine has renounced nuclear weapons, and the United States government has committed itself to providing adequate compensation for the creation of reference laboratories. I'd like to quote one fact from an analytical note. "In the city of Kiev, the construction of the central reference laboratory of the Sanitary Epidemiology Station is not carried out, and the emergency building of the laboratory of the Ukrainian Anti-Absonic Institute in Odessa, where works are carried out in violation of requirements, regulations and construction standards in the seismic areas, is recognized as central reference, and is moved from Kiev by a sample of pathogens that are the national acquisition of Ukraine. Otherwise, in order to destroy and harm Ukraine with the movement of pathogens, especially dangerous infections and their specimens, it is impossible to name them." Over the past four months, I have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Prosecutor General of Kiev, the Ukrainian Security Service with a request to investigate these matters. What are the conditions for today's EU laboratory, why today's particularly dangerous pathogens are in the Department of Health, and what has repeatedly been raised on the counters and newspapers of the Voice of Ukraine, and business publications as a deliberate destruction of the EU's network in Ukraine, is that the government, the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service are acting as if they already know what country and what time they're going. Today, the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union explores these topics in detail, we cooperate, first and foremost, with organizations, and with open sources of information aimed at monitoring the construction work. Because the construction works carried out in Odessa, Lviv, Harkov, and Odessa cannot be considered to meet the criteria of normality, benevolence. The Office of the Attorney General and the Ukrainian Security Service do not take any action to verify, and by this time the acquisitions that our science has, in fact, face the threat of destruction. At this time, we are continuing this work and would like to take this opportunity to see the Government, the Mineconomy, with the requirement of control over our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Smushuch gives the floor to the National MP, Vitalina Dzos. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich, distinguished colleagues! There's probably no secret in this room that we're very often contradicting each other, making mistakes in the past. It turns out that we're trying to move forward by turning our heads back. The main task of politics, I am deeply convinced, is to see prospects, is to look at tomorrow. This is not even important for politics, for Ukrainian citizens. Because people need to know what their future is tomorrow. For example, I am measuring my future tomorrow's future on a very basic basis, our children. What country will we leave to our children? What are we gonna give them? What kind of education? How competitive will they be in tomorrow? I think these are the issues that we need to think and act on as we move forward. But how? The annual message of President Viktor Fedorović Yanuković to the Supreme Council, which sets out all strategic directions for development, can help us to do so. I, for example, have studied a chapter near me called “Humanitarian policy as the basis for the modernization of society” and I can tell you that no problem will be solved with you, including the economic one, without the main problem of personal development. You cannot change the country without changing the people who live in that country. Of course, young people need to learn to think, see, feel that they have common values, family values, personal values. So I don't think we have any other way of taking the President's message, putting legislation on it, what to do next. To ask our colleagues from the executive branch to make clear strategic progress and move forward. Otherwise, there will be no development of our society. And believe me, the humanitarian sphere is much more powerful than economic development, because without the humanitarian sphere, without ideology, our society will not have a future. I wish you all success in this progress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde. National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u16	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Today I'd like to say a few words about the situation that's been around the investigation of the events of May 18th in Kiev, because, I understand so much that Gebels, Lenin and other political lies and propaganda masters, they'll probably be proud of their followers in the Party of Regions who are already so perverse that it's already up to, in fact, the theatre of absurdity. Today a mass information campaign has begun and, in fact, the position of the so-called law enforcement authorities that it turns out that this opposition has brought these hired bulls, it turns out, the opposition has provoked fighting, it turns out, the opposition is guilty of beating journalists. I just want to say what is the position of, for example, the official police, such as the head of the Kiev militia, Mr. Korak, who thinks that those popular videos, the popular video, where this BRDM is accompanied by DAI employees and they're bringing opposition action to the scene, he doesn't think it's a problem, he thinks that the police were acting perfectly normal, and there's no problem that military technology was driving during the opposition campaign in downtown Kiev. Similarly, it turns out that the freebies started a fight with these bulls by Vadik Rumin Titushka, and in general Titushka lied, we need to create a group on the Internet to support him, as some have already done. And it turns out that this opposition of all these bulls has been hired. And the fact that they were standing in charge of the Party of the Regions scene, that's not what the calculation is. That is, what they appeared on the street of the Great Zitomirsk, and there began a fight, also unknown. They must have gone from the Parliamentary Library to the Kiev tour as creative youths from the White Church, a group of young philosophers came to Kiev to visit libraries there. I guess that's what's happening right now that there's already testimony from some militiamen that journalist Snizzarczuk asked the bandits to beat her up. Imagine the level of criminal investigation. And it's actually obvious that, so it's no wonder, for example, that Vladimir Karasa, who had his skull smashed with caste on May 18th. When I asked Mr. Korak that he thought it was qualified as minor bodily harm, he said he didn't see any problem in this, that it was really slight bodily harm. So this attempt to shift from a sick head to a healthy one, this open propaganda, it only shows that we're going to have a lot of work once we get to power, in order to clean up the law enforcement apparatus that's finally grown with the criminal. And this lie, the information provocations coming from the Party of Regions, they're saying that they've outdone even the liar and the famous political manipulator Lenin, who said that enough is 5 percent of the truth in the newspapers. I understand that for the Party of Regions, 5 percent of the truth is too much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u17	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the Kutov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u18	Volodymyr Vasilovich, from the recent events, has to be called Taras Kutovov, because, to be clear, that is. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u19	I called the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u20	I want to talk to you about what would be ineffective work today in Parliament, how much it would be incomprehensible to us that today there is no effective majority in this Parliament, there are mines working outside of it. I am talking today about a medical reform that is destroying millions of people today. Six and a half million Ukrainians have already been buried. Prognosis is disheartening. By 2030 there will be a total of 25 million. And all of this is mainly true of the working population and the population that is now living in the village. During the past year alone, 2,000,300 health - care workers were reduced from official data in Poltavska, and 8 district hospitals were created from 25 district hospitals. So for 3 districts, one hospital. Sometimes you have to travel 75 kilometers from the village to get immediate help. We did experiments on cars that just stood from the village and went to the hospital, and we realize that all those people who could use it, they're gonna die by the time they get there. We also express indignation over the closure of two district hospitals and the decision of the Golden District Council, which is twice the decision that thousands of people are protesting. At 15 locations, 11,000 villagers live, there is no hospital. Are these decisions that we can support? Today, in the Blackwater region, my district, all are closed: infectious, gynecological, surgical, parturition. There is nowhere to get medical attention in the area. And at the same time, we claim that medical reform is continuing. This is a reform of genocide that is absolutely necessary only to those we know. And we know that the real basis behind this reform is the lack of the funds that have been borrowed today. And when they say everything is great today, it reminds me, you know, history, when we're on a hot bus, we're listening to music, it's all very beautiful, it's only after a while that we're going to stop in a dark, cold forest, and we're going to go out and see that there are wolves around us that are going to eat us like those who are going to stay on this hot bus and not die after this medical reform. And what I'm trying to say is that there are a lot of things today that talk about restructuring inside Parliament that you know, about stability there, about tradition and so on. I mean, if it wasn't there, it could be betrayed once. And in this context, I want to go to all the 151 constituencies in Poltavščina, from which I chose, more specifically the 50,000 people who voted for me. I stood out of the political party strike, supported by all the opposition forces. In these opposition forces, I remain. He's an active player of the opposition forces, I won't be on the bench, I won't be in the fines, and I won't be in the defectors. So please, the constituencies, know that Taras Kutovov is a reliable part and the impact faction is monolithic and monolithic. And please, you don't need to insinuate or confuse names. And I'm asking everyone when.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Thank you, Taras Kutov. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Irina Kupreyczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u23	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u24	Irina Kupreyczyk, 162th District, Fatherland faction. I would like to draw your attention to the disturbing facts of interference in the household, in the activities of the enterprises that my relatives are leading. I would like to point out that as the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are being violated, there is a groundless interference in the business activity, as well as the abuse of the official position of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, as well as of the monitoring and law enforcement authorities. Undoubtedly, such actions are carried out solely for political reasons with a view to exerting pressure on individual deputies. Criminal cases are opened for purpose and without any legal basis. Yes, the investigators of the Mindhodes Administration in Sumskie District are conducting a criminal investigation into the employees of the Niva Agrotech Society. According to the investigation, the Niva Agrotech company has received cash to replenish the company's turnover of about one and a half million euros from the non-resident company. It should be pointed out that the above - mentioned circumstances are established by the Mindhodes’ investigators in the Sumskie region, do not really correspond to reality and are flawed and groundless. So firmly agree with the conclusion that the company has received cash from a nonresident company, but the country’s order of financial transactions and calculations does not provide for the possibility of receiving cash from a nonresident company. I want to point out that this kind of pressure on businesses is being exerted politically for the purpose of illegal influence on me. Yes, to this day this business is headed by my daughter, but in 2011 it was led by me. It is evident that in this openly illegal and criminal activity, officials of public authorities, including the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, are taking part. I want to read to you the comments that the Sumu District Attorney has made on this issue. He says, "How can you not pay taxes and accuse the authorities that she's pushing the opposition? Disagree to the act, appeal to the court, win the court."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u25	Thank you, your time is up, thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u26	Dear voters, the Communist Party of Ukraine has always opposed the thoughtless restructuring of the coal sector. In the case of the Lugansk region alone, 14 coal enterprises have been eliminated over the past 15 years, 36 are in liquidation stages that have led to the decline in socio-economic development of population data and have affected the lives of almost one and a half million people. For areas affected by mine closures, there are extremely negative rates of birth, mortality, and disease. In these years, 81 preschools have been closed down, 36 schools, 54 health - care facilities, 35 clubs, 51 libraries, 27 drinking - water sites, and more than a thousand kilometres of highways needed to be restored. Government actions aimed at the development of regions and depressive areas are now minimized and require significant improvement and adoption of a separate program. The environmental problems associated with mine closure, methane output to the surface, and the submerged areas of the mined waters cause concern. Uncontrollable coal mining in ditches where people are suffocating in gas pockets, and they're overwhelmed by rock. The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to introduce an effective mechanism for determining the territory with separate funding, which will increase the standard of living of the population of the territories. By the way, the city of Pervomaysk, where the Canadian company today refused to rent the Menshinski Mine, can be added to the depressing territories. 850 miners may be out of a job today. The mine is mined by coked coal for metallurgical enterprises. And according to experts, stocks of coal are estimated at nearly 100 million tons. It is necessary to work, not by raids, to solve these problems, but by specific work. The Ukrainian Company's faction will support miners to transfer mines to state property, allocate funds to load a new central lava that will allow mines to be removed to stable jobs and miners to save their jobs. And today, I would like to address today 20 years on the revival of the Ukrainian Compartium. I congratulate all our supporters on this date and wish everyone health and well-being.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for performances has been exhausted. You have a list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision-making today. So let's talk about ratification and denunciation. The draft Law (Registration No. 0021) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters is under consideration. How do we view it? I can hear you. Anyone for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:33:42]] For a hundred and Against 31, held – 6, not voted – 196. Decision taken. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters. The agreement was signed in November 2012 in Abu Dhabi. I would like to point out that there are no multilateral agreements in relations between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates today on these legal issues. In this regard, it is vital that this document be ratified today. The amount of legal assistance requested by the competent authorities of the contracting parties in accordance with the contract shall include the delivery of messages and other judicial documents, the receipt of evidence by way of court orders or requests and the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions and peace agreements. Of course, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, as well as other international treaties, is traditionally the appropriate central authorities through which requests will be made. And I would like to draw special attention to that chapter of the treaty that deals with the question of the execution of court decisions. In particular, a court decision shall not be recognized or implemented in the event that it is not final, it is not enforceable, it shall not be passed by a competent authority if the courts to which the recognition or enforcement of a judicial decision is directed have exclusive jurisdiction over the settlement of cases. A request to uphold that law and to adopt it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Have a seat. The report is the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the Ukrainian President’s draft Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters (Registration No. 0021) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the Agreement between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters. The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the mutual assistance agreement in civil and commercial matters signed on 26 November 2012 in Abu Dhabi. The main objective of the treaty is to establish effective cooperation between the competent authorities of both sides by providing mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, identifying a mechanism for mutual recognition and enforcing judicial decisions. Ratification of the treaty will create additional guarantees of legal protection, allowing citizens of one party to freely appeal to the court and other competent authorities of the other party by filing lawsuits and protecting their rights and interests in civil matters. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of this document. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy concluded that the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters did not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreed agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u31	Thank you. People's deputies would like to sign up for the faction. There are those who want to discuss this issue, and we will follow the Rules. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Hennadia Zubka.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u33	Pass it on, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! We're just starting to discuss the agenda of the day, aren't we? The issue of ratification of the Arab Emirates Agreement and between Ukraine. But please, let's, before we get into the order of the day, give a word for the reason of the order of the day. Why? Because yesterday a day was formed, with a very important question. One of them is the question of pedagogical licenses, which was excluded from the Budget Code. For this reason, the head of the district council and the national deputies addressed you. I have a big request that, in fact, ratification is needed today, but today the question of the pedagogical licenses, which today 56 direct and an extra 100 will go without funding if we don't consider this issue during this session. So the request to join the agenda today or tomorrow morning to put the question first. With regard to the ratification between Ukraine and the Arab Emirates, our faction will support this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u35	Thank you. Party of regions. National MP Soloshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The bill proposes to ratify the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates, signed in Abu Dhabi on 26 November 2012. Ratification of the treaty will enable citizens, as well as legal persons, to defend their civil and legal rights in the territory of the country where they will be located. The Foreign Affairs Profile Committee invites the MP to ratify the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u37	Freedom Union, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxenthyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u39	Please pass it on to Shevchenk, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u40	Alexander Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction will support the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters. In our view, the ratification of this treaty will ensure effective cooperation between the relevant authorities and Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates, which are parties to the treaty, to provide mutual assistance, including legal assistance, in civil and commercial matters. The mechanism for recognition and execution of court rulings, in particular, may be defined. With this in mind, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom calls on the rest of the deputies to support the ratification of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u41	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u42	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, electoral district 144, Poltava. At that time, the deputy minister said that the relationship between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates was not dealt with in law at all. And this is the country that is the key player in the region. A country where, as everyone knows, even taxis are used by Ferrari cars. Which is a powerful energy player all over the world. So we can boldly say that there is no foreign ministry in our country. There is absolutely no foreign policy by the President and the Prime Minister. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has turned into a group that invents a complete lie for the President and the Prime Minister that they seem to want to join the European Union and at the same time play with Moscow. This has to be stopped. Tax payers should not finance an entity that is simply a phantom that does not pursue a policy that should protect a national producer abroad. It does not pursue policies that protect national interests abroad. And it just eats up the money that ordinary Ukrainian people earn by working hard. We, our political power, will, of course, support the ratification of this treaty. But I'm stressing that it's time for the government to come to their senses. Appointing ministers, particularly foreign affairs of those who will be statesmen, who will not be the lacquers of Prime Minister Azarov, who destroy the national authority of our Ukraine abroad and who will in fact destroy everything that can today lead to a real breakthrough in our country’s foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. People's deputies please sit down, get ready to vote, don't run around the hall. Prepared? I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0021) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:45:01]] For the 320. Against - 0, held - 0, not a vote - 67. Decision taken. The factions. The law is passed. A draft Law (No. 0022) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is being introduced. How do we view it? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. [[10:45:48]] For 172 Against 40, held – 6, not voted – 168. Decision taken. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. It was also signed in Abu Dhabi in November 2012. But unlike the situation of legal relations in the execution of civil and commercial affairs orders in this area of legal regulation between our countries, there is an international multilateral instrument, such as the UN Convention against Transnationally Organized Crime and the Additional Protocol thereto, concerning trafficking in human beings. As this treaty becomes effective, legal grounds will be created for joint action by the competent authorities of both sides on crime prevention, criminal investigation and confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means. The amount of legal aid to be provided in accordance with this Treaty will include obtaining certificates or applications, providing documents, records, items, searches of persons or objects, serving of court documents, temporary transfer of persons in custody for the purpose of giving evidence, conducting searches and arrests, confiscation of proceeds derived from criminal activities, as well as other forms of cooperation within the framework of a treaty that does not conflict with the laws of both parties. Request to uphold the law and ratify the treaty. It is extremely important for both of us, for Ukraine and for the Arab Emirates, it will create a legal basis for the execution of legal aid requests in criminal matters, and adopt this law, both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat. The report is the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. We've been waiting for you for half an hour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u46	Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the Ukrainian President’s draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (Registration No. 0022) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the treaty signed between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates. The purpose of the bill is to implement the internal State procedures necessary to establish the validity of the contract signed on 26 November 2012 in Abu Dhabi. The treaty aims to create legal grounds for joint action by the competent authorities of both States on crime prevention, criminal investigation and confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no objection to the ratification of this international legal treaty. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy concluded that the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters did not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. So please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreed agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Have a seat. Do you want to talk about it? Yes. Please register with the factions. Please, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u48	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Company of Ukraine has carefully considered the bill. She considers it an important element of our interstate relationship and suggests it to support its ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u49	Freedom Union, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u51	Please, Chevchenko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u52	Shevchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction advocates the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Today, Ukrainians have the opportunity to visit other countries freely, including the United Arab Emirates. But there are people who commit crimes who go abroad. And these crimes are of an international nature, they go beyond a separate state. Well, crimes like drug trafficking or human trafficking. Therefore, the mutual assistance of countries in eliminating such illicit trade, the persecution of those who violate national and international law will enable them to arrest, for example, by carrying out proper investigations. Then, too, it is for the benefit of citizens who have suffered damage or physical harm from the proper wrong actions of individuals. Therefore, we welcome the conclusion of such a treaty and urge those present to ratify or vote for its ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u53	Party of regions, National Deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u54	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Crane Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u55	Please, Žuravsky Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u56	This bill is against transnational crime. This bill is against trafficking in human beings. And this law will help you get revenue, confiscate the proceeds that you get in the criminal way. This will benefit the two nations. A party of regions will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u57	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku, the main anti-corruption officer in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u59	Please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u60	Victor Chumak, 214th constituency city of Kyiv, political party, Vitalia Klitka. The strike party faction will support the draft Mutual Legal Assistance Act in criminal matters with the United Arab Emirates. I would like to say that the international agreements in this area are really an effective tool for preventing international crime and preventing organized cross-border and transnational crime. But I would like to point out that we still have some doubts about the effective implementation of this agreement by the Ukrainian side. And what I mean. Indeed, to this day, the level of professionalism and the level of confidence in today's Ukrainian militia have fallen below any limits below the plentuse. So we hope that our Arab colleagues will not be disappointed by the execution of this covenant by the Ukrainian side. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u61	Thank you. National Deputy Knazevitch, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u62	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The thing is, I think we will certainly support this bill and ratify it, because it is very important, especially for Ukraine. I do not know, to be honest, that the United Arab Emirates is trying to launder funds in Ukraine. But I know a lot of, let's say, cases where Ukrainian companies that are now active, let's say they're developing some resort areas in the Arab Emirates, they're building Arab Emirates, they're trying to supply food, grain and so on. Obviously, it will be an opportunity for us to examine in some way whether the funds they are making there are legitimately earned. That's a big success, actually, because the Arab Emirates is a country that's pretty closed. And what they're letting us do is somehow verify these things and then confiscate them in favour of Ukraine is certainly a big plus. And we certainly need to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law (Registration No. 0022) on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:56:24]] For 335 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 53. The law is passed. The draft Law (Registration number 0003) on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine is under consideration. Short-term procedure? Please vote. Please vote. [[10:57:10]] For 193 Against - 106, held – 3, not voted – 84. Decision taken. The factions. According to the law, Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Then it's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste of Kyiv. Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! I prepared a ten - minute, calm, normal report where I wanted to present all the facts, the arguments. Why are we hiding from this question? What will it be after? One wise man said this: there are "peacemakers" (and he took the word of a peacemaker) who feed the crocodiles in the hope that this crocodile would eat them last. I emphasize that he will eat them last. As a result, I usually have to mix up my arguments, my report. I voted in the same room to rent some sea bases to Sevastopol, to rent. We had a normal relationship with Russia, Yeltsin led it, and I worked on his committee as a member of the Soviet Union, in his deputy group headed by Sakharov and Yeltsin. There was a very normal situation, and very calm and normal we voted in this room at that time. I also voted in favour of the Transitional Provisions of the Constitution, which said that foreign military bases would stay in Ukraine temporarily. So the situation was very normal. Why did I ask that question now? Because we have completely different realities today. I'll just take the economic side. Here I have a unique document from the State Department of the Derhidrography, where they clearly write: "Inventory has not been completed at this time, and leases between the two governments have not been concluded." In fact, there is no such agreement. Russia owed us three billion. For several years now, I have been fighting over what is Ukraine’s debt, which seems to have been taken? I can't find out what this debt is. Who's got three billion debts? I, the MP at the time, didn't know about it, we never voted for it. And during, of course, signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u65	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondent is deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u66	Thank you, Igor Grigorovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian law on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine (registration number 0003) and decided by a majority to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject it. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be rejected because it is contrary to the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties of 1969, the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted that the bill had been submitted without complying with article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the adoption of the bill would result in a reduction in revenue to the State budget, and drew attention to the violation of the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Code of Budget. The National Security and Defence Committee has also decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject it. So the committee's decision in foreign affairs is to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u67	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. I'd like representatives of the MP factions to sign in two for, two against. Freedom faction, people's deputies Blawajki.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Mikhalchi's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u69	Pass the word to Mikhalchino. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u70	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Lviv. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Association considers the Kharkiv Accords an act of national disgrace and surrender. These agreements, which have been called upon to provide our nation with a reduction in the price of natural gas, actually legitimize the Russian military occupation of Ukraine. Moreover, the formula used in the calculations indicates the complete incompetence and non-professionalism of those who prepared the agreement, of those who ratified it in the session hall and of those who are its apologists today. We believe that the Kharkiv Accords have become the next act of national geopolitical catastrophe. They can be likened to the Regent covenants under which Ukraine lost its sovereignty. Such agreements are signed by nations that have been defeated in the great war. So we say that in 2010, Ukraine acted like a defeated state. This means that the occupation of a portion of the Crimean Peninsula of Ukraine has been legitimized to date, and significant losses have been caused to national interests in the form of a formula for calculation. From 2020 to 2942, Ukraine will not receive any funds at all. The fact that Ukraine is supposed to receive $100 million from 2017 is completely absurd, since the world’s leading nations pay billions of dollars for renting similar bases. An example here is the rental of the Manila Military Base in the United States of America. Then we believe that those who signed and ratified the Kharkiv Accords have committed a crime before Ukraine will be accountable to the Ukrainian people. Today, we call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to correct this mistake and break the treacherous agreements. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u71	The Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u73	Passes the word to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u74	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Look, Russia is planning to build a Black Sea fleet base in Novorosi. This year alone, the director of the Russian Ministry of Defence's Department of Capital Construction reported to their president, "It's all going according to plan." 2008 – the first phase of the construction of Russia's new fleet base in Novorosian, 2017 – the second phase ends, 2020 – the base will turn into a key. It's a question. In connection with the construction of a new Russian fleet base in Russia itself, why should the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation remain in our sovereign territory until 2042? First question. Ukrainian President Yanukovic answers that question? He won't. At least we didn't hear him speak. The other one. Why doesn't the Black Sea fleet pay rent? He's not paying Ukraine. According to expert estimates, at least for a year, $2.5 billion should receive the Ukrainian budget. How much does the Russian fleet pay? Zero. He's paying $97 million a year on what debts, who, who, when, who, who, who, when, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, The second question. Is President Yanukovic answering him? He won't. Question three. Gas discounts. Listen, where are the discounts? The third wave of gas reductions from Gazprom all over Europe began. In fact, the de facto discount is not given to Ukraine alone. As a result of those contracts signed in Kharkiv, which Ukraine seems to be expected to receive. But they're gone. So the way out is one. First, the inventory of all Russian fleets in Ukraine, especially in Sevastopol. The other one. Setting fair rent rates. And the third. Instantly, without any conditions of annexation or support, as the Bolsheviks once said, denunciation of criminal, harmful harqa treaties. Then there will be a real work for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u75	People's Deputy Kilinkarov, faction of the Company of Ukraine. He's giving the word Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to inform you immediately that the Company's faction will not vote in favour of such a draft decision. And we believe that making such a decision is an adventure that will necessarily lead to an exacerbation, with a sharp increase in the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. This is not for the benefit of Ukraine. Because today the same “natygalics” did not answer the question: who will finance the budget of the city of Sevastopol so that the city of Sevastopol would at least be able to provide at least one measure for the normal life of its citizens? The question is, of course, what will happen to the Ukrainian manufacturer. These are gas price policy issues. These are issues of the Ukrainian producer's market in Russia. These are indeed many other problematic situations that will lead to reckless, adventurous decision-making, as suggested by the “nattigaliki”. And yet I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the next question. We're talking about the Black Sea fleet. And when do we talk about the Ukrainian fleet? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Ukrainian fleet today we have a red frigate called Sevastopol, attached to the ship, so to speak, do not be offended, sailors, Sagajdakny and also attached to the pier of the 1973 diesel ship Zaporozhye. At least the names should be taken from them so as not to dishonor these bright names and cities of the unique glory of our Ukraine. Therefore, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we must speak very seriously today about the security of our country and the fact that the Ukrainian naval Power does not have the naval forces. The State of Ukraine today has virtually no military air force. You go to Ukraine and see, there's at least one airport where we actually have Ukrainian aircraft flying in terms of preparing the country's defence capabilities. There's no missile complex! Today, no tank has been bought to ensure the country’s defence capacity! And here's those natigalikis again today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u78	And I would like to emphasize once again that these nattigalics are curing their cheeks just to strengthen their relationship with the Russian Federation and to exacerbate the situation within Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u79	National Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u80	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] The Bender takeovers during the war claimed that we should destroy half of the Ukrainians, but our power would be terrible. Today we see the same thing. Why? Yes, because the presence of the Black Sea fleet primarily ensures the defence and security of our borders. Second. For the people of the town of Sevastopol, there are more than 20,000 jobs. According to the latest European standards, some $90,000 is needed to create one job. Are our national fascists ready to make a billion dollars today to create jobs in Sevastopol? And the answer is obvious. They are more likely to destroy Sevastopol as such. They're not gonna make it! Next. The question of debt. Indeed, the Black Sea fleet today compensates Ukraine's debts by gas of more than three billion, even without a percentage of the rate of interest, it was just such a good relationship between Ukraine and Russia. Third. The issue of defence. Today, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, the Ukrainian naval forces are jointly patrolling and ensuring the security of the Black Sea region. Do we have security problems? And I'll remind national fascists how they sold Snake Island, how they're selling the Danube today, and how we're losing the Killian Straits and our factories today! And on Romania's side, shame, 30 battalions, of them 3 battalions of specialty, and on our side only 3 small-staff battalions. Whether or not we have questions about territorial claims. As long as we keep chewing thanks to the Fascist nationalists, of course there will be problems. That's why the fleet was, the fleet is, and the fleet will work, because, since 2017, the obvious things are that the rent price is rising, where we'll already be getting living money. The Black Sea fleet is being inspected and its presence today ensures the independence of our Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u81	It's the "hit" faction on the ground of the vote. People's MP Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u82	Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies, I have the text of the Kharkiv Treaties in my hands. I read them along, across, from the front, from behind. And I wanted to understand why this deal was signed. And in this case, I would like to draw attention to the economic aspect of the agreement. We're said to have gotten a $100 discount per thousand cubic meters price. I read to you article 2 of this covenant. "At $333 and higher than a thousand cubic feet of gas, the decrease will be $100." But perhaps few have been able to read the following sentence of the covenant. I'll read it to you. "These additional costs are calculated on the basis of an increasing summary every calendar year and are recognized as Ukraine's liabilities." I'll explain it in human language. We're going to give you a discount, but we're going to give you a debt from Ukraine to the Russian Federation. You go to the store, buy a TV. It costs 2,000 dollars. You're told, and we'll sell you for a thousand dollars, but we'll give you the debt you're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u83	Ten seconds. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u84	An abnormal article in this covenant provides that repayment takes place in sums that are undetermined. So this is a dollar, $10, $100. This is an example of the unique unprofessional nature of a treaty that does not have the right to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u85	Thank you. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting in motion a bill (registration 0003) on the denunciation of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine for adoption as a basis. Please vote. There's no procedure. [[11:13:57]] For-152. The bill was rejected. The factions. Region Party 3, Fatherland 71, Vitalia Klicka Strike 34, Freedom 33, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 11. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The draft Decree (Registration 2164a) on the Commission for the Future of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:15:00]] For-151 Decision taken. Lilia Mihailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, the draft of this decree has been drafted on the recommendation of committee hearings since 13 March of this year: "On the state and legislative provision of scientific and scientific and technical activities." I'm going to point out that the situation in the science and technology spheres and in general in the economy of the country is precisely due to the lack of a strategic perspective on Ukraine's future based on scientific and expert analysis. The absence of an active and calculated, well-balanced strategy on geopolitical and geoeconomic issues of the state inhibits the development of Ukraine and causes negative effects for most sectors of the economy. In this regard, it is proposed that a future commission be established at the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a advisory and advisory body to assist the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the formulation of a state development strategy based on objective laws of nature and society, new advances in science and technology. Such committees now exist in the parliaments of most developed countries in the world, such as Britain, France, Germany, Finland, the Scandinavian countries, Israel. This is also the case with the European Parliament. Such committees are usually made up of national deputies and independent scientists. This enables independent expertise in state decisions in terms of their impact on the future of the country. In the second and fourth vocations, attempts were made to establish such an organ. We are now mature, and there is an absolutely critical need to grow up to be such an advisory body at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In conclusion, I want to introduce myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u87	Let me finish. Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna is both the author of the bill and the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u88	According to estimates published in May of this year by the Global Institute of McKinsey, by 2025 the world’s economic impact on the development of the knowledge economy is between $5 and $7 trillion. It's that reserve. Which can allow our country to make a good leap, because the heritage-eating resource is already exhausted, the highest potential for growth, obviously lies in the area of innovation. That is why it is so important for the legislative body of our nation to create one that will correctly determine technological and scientific priorities and make important and correct strategic decisions. Someone said, "The future belongs to someone who sees opportunities before they become obvious to everyone." Ukraine must be adequate to world trends and threats. Let's set our priorities, figure out where our opportunities are, and where our threats are. The Committee on Science and Education reviewed the draft decree and asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it. I'm sure we're as young as we are, but we declare democracy as adults to the ideas that academic Yukhnowsky proposed to Parliament 20 years ago and that have long been implemented and are working successfully in Europe. What is more, we absolutely need to re-establish our country's state development forecasting system for further development. Of all these tactical and strategic considerations, I call on all deputies to support this draft Supreme Council Regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u89	Have a seat, Lilia Mikhailna. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we discuss this? We will. Please sign up: 2 for, 2 for the MPs. National Deputy Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u90	Vladimir Bondarenko, united opposition to the Fatherland. The bill, proposed by Mrs. Lilia, is really European, is really one that raises a set of moral and ethical norms that would be true in society. I understand that many of our colleagues, especially the factions that are more concerned with the economy today, but with their own economy, not with their own, not with the state, are speaking today from the communists who say they're fighting for the people, and they're actually keeping the system of looting Ukrainian money through Cyprus, those speeches that have just been made to defend Russia's occupation of part of Ukrainian territory, they're refusing to pass this bill. Nevertheless, we will be today and tomorrow, and continue to make sure that Ukraine is a state that is respected in the world, not as a country where the racket is luxuriating today, where there is no real legal system today, where God knows what is going on in the courts, and every man does not know how to protect himself. And this bill also speaks of another aspect of our lives, another aspect of our lives -- the rise in moral standards. So I'd like you to think about it, dear friends. Our children and grandchildren need to have a state that meets the standards that are accepted worldwide. Do not reject this bill simply because it is presented by a representative of the united opposition, the person who may be in different positions with you, in the political assessments of the events that are taking place. Let's support this very needed bill by Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u91	National Deputy Butkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u92	National Deputy Butkovsky, 29th constituency, Dniproperty. I'd like to give the word to my colleague, Dzoz Vitalini.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u93	Hand over the word to the People's Deputy, Dzos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, after a professional committee on science and education, where the question of the creation of a commission for the future of the Supreme Council was being considered, I've been thinking for a long time whether it would be the same way that it would come out of the corner of our world, or whether it would give the same strategy for the development of education. I don't think so. You know, as historian Vasily Klutevsky said, there are people who are like windmills who are always flapping their wings but never flying. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are committees, working groups, expert councils, like mills, we're just waving our wings, that is, we're sitting, we're talking, but we're not doing anything. I think that the creation of another committee is not a solution to problems, it is not constructive action, it is just another body that will talk. The Commission, which will work on a public basis under the patronage of a special committee, may be established without a decision at the Supreme Council level. Both the Government and the Supreme Council are always open to expert proposals, comments. And we have enough public committees, commissions to discuss this issue. Deeply convinced that it is necessary to start making specific cases, not to sit down and set up regular commissions. The faction of the regions will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u95	People's Deputy Palamarczuk, Vitaly Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u97	Chumaku is given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u98	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kyiv, Dniprovsky district, political party "Klitka Vitalia." Dear colleagues, I propose that we all support this bill. I would like to say that perhaps all of our problems in the country today are due to the fact that in 20 years of independence Ukraine has not been able to produce a vision of its future. In 20 years, neither the political elite nor society has been able to make Ukraine able to find its own competitive advantages, to identify its weakest places that could somehow be made the most powerful, unable to make us see our place in this world. To date, even the strategy in Ukraine is happening or the construction of the state budget takes place at the shortest possible time. Because today, no one can determine what the most priority measures are needed for the country to make itself competitive in this world. I just want to say that countries with such commissions, countries that clearly see their place in the future, have moved on to completely different terms of strategy. No one does budgeting and does not develop a strategy in the short term for up to three years, as we do. What should be the least time to see the country's development as 5 years is the medium-term perspective, 10 years as well as once again the longest of the average term, or 20-25. The leading countries of the world are now making their vision of their development by about 30 years, or 90 years. And that's how, assuming the greatest risks in the world, the greatest risks in international politics, the greatest risks in internal politics, assuming that, by agreeing on the position of all the stakeholders in the country, how different spheres of public policy should be developed, we can build a normal European, I would say.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Freedom faction, National Deputy Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u100	I beg you to pass the word to Irina Farion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I have abstained on the committee about voting for such a draft order, and here are the reasons. Not just those motives, not just those reasons that this decision has a declarative character, but above all, that everything we create should be uniquely based on a professional basis, not on public principles. I'm very skeptical about any social organization, especially in the context of the outcome of their work and also in the Supreme Council. Third, we have a sufficient number of institutions in Ukraine that make predictions and analyses. The other thing is that the state absolutely does not support it, especially in the context of scientific forecasting. So we need to focus on the adoption of a budget that would support this direction of research rather than create so-called "advisory and advisory bodies on public principles." And finally, one more. If we want to know what we're going to have tomorrow, enough to analyze what we've done today. All self - sufficient and enlightened people know that. And one of the best times is called Present Continuous, which is the current duration. And if we were really able to focus on today's political moment, this political moment today would draw us and our worthy future. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will abstain from voting on this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u102	For reasons of vote, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, the national deputy of Zubcevski. This is a faction that did not participate in the discussion according to the Rules. Copy that. You signed up. The faction of the Party of the Regions is written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u103	Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. The Communist faction would not support the bill, as it did not in fact solve the educational problems. [[B in m in s a l in]] It does not answer the question of where to take the funds necessary for normal living in the educational system. It does not answer the question of access to education, the fight against corruption, how to raise the level of students and students. In this case, it is a matter of establishing an amorphous consultative structure that does not commit or resolve anything. We can create a mass of commissions, calling them whatever: the future, the modern, the past. However, problems remain unresolved. And more. This is the case with the copying of European commissions. Experience has shown that the more we copy everything that goes on from Europe, despite our rich experience in Soviet times, the worse the education situation in our country will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u104	From the non-faction Grigory Smoky, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Grigory Coward, 17th constituency, Winnitzkin. I want to make your point that only a state can have a perspective when it develops intelligence. And it's only through intelligence that innovation can come. And innovation can create personality. And if there's an intelligence, there's innovation, there's personalities, there's definitely an investment. The investment goes where the mind is. And we must all support today's proposal to create a commission. It is this commission that should involve the most experienced people and the elite of our Ukrainians, and offer new approaches to solving both economic problems and problems that shape civil society. I am deeply convinced that many countries in the world today that have demonstrated their successful development have not had such great potential: both scientific and natural.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Hanna Herman, National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Here, during the discussion, representatives of the law-radical party expressed the skepticism of their political power towards public organizations. It's a very dangerous statement in a society that builds civil society. This is a very dangerous statement in a country that wants to follow democratic development. I draw attention to this statement by representatives of foreign embassies, all representatives of public organizations, journalists. And I ask that we all unite to join forces to ensure that the political forces that are skeptical of public organizations do not have a future in an independent democratic Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u108	Thank you. I'm betting on a draft Decree (Registration No. 2164a) on the Commission for the Future of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[11:32:12]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. There's no motive. This is not provided for by the Rules, honourable national deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, by factions, please. Region Party 3, Fatherland 61, Vitalia Klicka Strike 32, Freedom faction 0, Ukraine Company 0, non-fractional 11. A draft Order (registration number 2964) on the placement of the city of Chortkov in the Ternopil region into the category of cities of regional importance is being introduced. Damn it, I repeat, Sons of bitches. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Government Affairs, Gladys Vasil Ivanovich. I'm making a proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:33:27]] For 139 The decision is not taken. The reporter is Gladys Vasil Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u109	Dear fellow MPs! The Ternopil district council appealed to the Supreme Council for information on the placement of the city of Chortkov in the Ternopil region into the category of cities of regional importance. The Curts are a city of regional importance, administrative and industrial, the cultural center of the area of Ternopil. Today, 30,000 people live in the city of Chortkow. In the Ternopil region of Chortkow, the population of 30 towns is second to none. The main sector of the city’s economy is the industry, which is represented by large industrial enterprises and other enterprises that provide processing of agricultural products in the southern region of the Ternopil region. There's a network of socio-cultural, medical and educational institutions developed in Crckov. The city has considerable potential for tourism development. The question of the placement of the city of Curtkov in the Ternopil region in the category of cities of regional importance is agreed in accordance with the legislation of the Chortkow district, the Czartkow district, and the Ternopil district councils. The Committee believes that placing cities in the urban category will increase the rate of development of the territorial community, increase the financial and economic autonomy of local self-government, contribute to the investment attractiveness of the territory, which in turn requires new, more efficient organizational and administrative forms of local self-government. As a result of the discussion of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the city of Chortkov in the region of Ternopil district should be assigned to the category of cities of regional importance, taking as a basis and as a whole the corresponding draft decree (registration number 2964). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u110	People's deputies please sign up for questions. Wait for the rostrum, please. National Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please return to the rostrum. Vasil Ivanovich, please return to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u111	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please tell me, is this Ivano-Frankov region? If this city is proposed to be a city of regional importance, given the philosophy of the regional council, is there a Pantheon on the territory of UN-OPA, Bandera, Shuhevich and others who cooperated with the Collaborant movement? Because if they're not, then there's no need to consider comparing a small town like Chertkov to a famous city like Ivano-Frankow, where all these memory complexes already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u112	Well, first of all, I want to say that the city of Chortkow does not refer to the region of Ivano-Frankow. The city of Chortkow is the region of Ternopil. In the Ternopil region, the only city of regional importance is the city of Ternopil. I spoke in my statement that the city of Chortkow is the second city in terms of both population and administrative importance, cultural, industrial development, economic development in general. So when the committee considered the issue, we considered the whole complex of issues related to the development of the city of Chortkova. The committee therefore unanimously recommends that the bill, the city of Chortkow, be supported by bringing the city of Chortkow to the city of the Ternopil region.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u113	National Deputy Dry, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u114	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, well, I shall personally urge the Ukrainian national deputies to vote in favour of this decree. Because the city of Chortkow will thus be given a chance to become what you said it was, where there is a great industry. There was an industry. There was an auto factory, there was a puh-pero, there was sugar, there was a meatcombinate, there was an air conditioning plant, there were huge military parts. But please tell me if he really gets the city of Curtsa a chance to regain the former glory of the industrial center, or whether the changes to the budget will not be able to do without the economics and the economy in the city of Chertkov itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u115	I agree with you, you said very correctly that this would be an opportunity for Czartkov to develop the city and not only the city, but also the entire area of Ternopil. I didn't call it a list of those industrial enterprises that are and operate in Curtkov today, it's really a real and big industrial center. Thus, all the information provided in the package shows that giving the city of Czartkov status to the city will necessarily lead to the development of the city of Czartkova, to the creation of new jobs, to the development of the city’s investment attraction. That's why I support your position. I also call for a vote on the basis of this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Have a seat, Vasil Ivanovich. Please sign up for the factions. People's MP Medanik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u117	Please give the floor to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u118	Pass the word Chechetov to Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u119	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] As far as this bill is concerned. You know, we've looked very closely at the content of this bill. It is a matter of preparing a major administrative reform of the territorial system in Ukraine. And there is a suggestion that all issues related to the surrender of the status of cities of regional subordination are already being addressed in the context of this reform. When a new territorial reform was undertaken, administrative reform was under way and the status issues were under consideration. The fact is that the status of the city of regional jurisdiction entails additional costs from the budget. In this situation, therefore, the faction has decided to draw a line, and to date no decision has been taken on the legal status of the city of regional subordination, regardless of whether it is located in the East in the Donetsk Region or in Western Ukraine, in the South or in the North, as this entails budgetary costs. Well, once again, before administrative reform. The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore requests the MP Corps to support our position and to highlight the status of regional subordination to human settlements, regardless of territorial affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u120	National Deputy Bondarenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u121	Please give the word to John Stoick, the representative of Ternopilska.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u122	Pass the word to John Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, "Fatherland" faction for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it has happened, unfortunately, that Ternopolska alone in the area has no cities other than Ternopol, a district value. And I think today we're going to fix this, despite the opposition and the majority in Parliament, even though something seems to be dividing us ideologically. But we're all Ukrainians, we have to take care of our cities. The Chortków population is an ancient city founded in 1522. It really belonged to various historical formations, and it has its historical path. But today it's one of the biggest cities, and if you're right, it's the second largest city since Ternopolis. And it has the right, like other cities that have, say, the right to call themselves a district city, today is a great potential just like cultural, educational, industrial and so forth. As far as industry is concerned, Mr. Jaroslav spoke, but it may have been said inappropriately. You know, the sugar plant is the largest factory in Ukraine. And it works today, as well as in the machinery industry, in the light industry, and in the food industry. I'd like us to take the step that we should have taken in the heat of the day. Because this is the future of Delilah, of South Delhi, this is the future of our region. And I think that the Party of Regions, regardless of the provocations that came from Vadim Kolesnick, will vote for the status of the city of district importance. If you want a replica, I'll tell you what it is: there are monuments and soldiers of the Soviet army and there are monuments to UPA soldiers. And for the communists to understand that there are monuments there by the Hero of the Soviet Union of Lavrinenka, there are monuments called the "twenties" of the guerrilla movement. And there is no surprise, for Western Europe lives in a civilized world, a European category, no one shares it, but they honor each other’s memory. And that is why there are monuments, and Jews both, and temples are different denominations, the church is, is a synagogue. But, dear colleagues, if there are such provocations, of course, there is nothing we can do for the development of both Ternopolska and Ukraine as a whole. So I ask you to support the committee's decision and vote in favour of the status of the district significance of the city of Curtkova. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u124	People's MP, Vitaly Klitschak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u125	I'm asking you to pass the word to Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u126	The word is passed on to Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u127	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to the fact that together we all support the position of the Vitalia Klicka faction. I am convinced that all the other factions in the Supreme Council, the position is that every Ukrainian city, every community of every Ukrainian city, has the right to state support, has the right to live with dignity and justice. So in support of the decision to grant district status to the city of Czartkov, we would like to focus on the fact that local communities and the region of Ternopol have to be eligible for election to the Ternopol District Council. They finally have the right to control both their own budget and financing libraries, and schools, and to create additional jobs. This is the kind of public attention when people are given the right to choose for the district and district councils of their representatives, to delegate authority to them, and to be able to build local infrastructure is a national approach. With such a national approach, we propose that both the city of Chortkow be given the status of the city of district importance, and those initiatives of the local communities that are now important in the lives of the people and the great walker, both Nastasova and Courtkova and Berežan and Ternopol have finally received support from the district and district councils, have received due national attention from the administration of the district, city and district. We regret to say today that both the district and the city’s public administrations have been cut off from the real needs of the people. I'll tell you from the high hall of the Supreme Council that the entire Nastasova community is against the illegal construction of the farm, essentially near the home school in the center of the village. Water disappeared, smell standing in the middle of the village, protecting people with no one. The same is true of the Great Walkers, where a huge bird factory is built. Similarly, the administration has moved away, and people are forced to protect themselves and themselves on earth. I think that this approach should be stopped when uncontrolled administrations create what they want, through corrupt mechanisms they promote businesses and industries that destroy community life in places. Please support, and we suggest that we support this decision on the Churches and that we pay more attention not to illegal decisions being made, that there are no illegal oblivions in places and places where people live in villages, in our areas and in our cities. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u128	The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u129	Alexy Qaeda, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, Ternopilish. Dear fellow MPs, I probably won't get too far apart, aggrieve in view of the fact that the level of some deputies, especially in geography, wants to be better, at least. If they've taken the Churches to the Frankish district, if you'll excuse me, I'm sure you'll have to set up some kind of lycnep. And the question of risking the issues that should be decided in principle by local governments. I would like to remind you of 2010 when the current current president of Ukraine spoke of strengthening local governments. Similarly, we were told in 2012 that they would leave taxes on the spot, that district government administrations would be eliminated, that since 2010 they would only have oversight functions. Instead, it is just talk. Chortkov's people have decided: give the city the status of the district. In order to really strengthen local self-government in some way, to strengthen the rights of the community. And last year, in July, the Ternopil District Council, which I was leading at the time, unanimously, unanimously, all factions, including the faction of the Party of Regions, supported the decision to grant the status of the city of Chortks the status of regional importance. So what's changed since then? And it just changed: we don't want to, we don't want to. Since no one is going to cancel the regime, no one is going to deprive the district authorities of those influences. Why does no one say that 20 deputies have been unable to join the Ternopil district council for two years? The territorial electoral commission, consisting of most representatives of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party and the so - called Block of Lithuania, does not vote for the admission of deputies to the district council. The district attorney's office is silent, the courts are being rebaptized. Because it's clear that they're you and the courts that you bought, that are regulated and run off Bank Street. And that's why we understand very well that this question is probably not going to go away. But I still, it's my duty to urge all factions to vote in favour of this issue and to give, in the end, to the community the real importance of the influence on power. Please be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u130	The people's deputy Kolesnichenko, the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Company of Ukraine have the word for replication. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet, please. The name was in the address of the national deputy John Stoick. Please turn on Koleschenka's microphone. Look at the transcript, please. After that, we will be recorded by the National Deputies. Quiet!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's hard to say. The minority representative is provoked. When we all know clearly that neither the Ternopol region nor the Ivano-Frankov region nor the Lviv region would ever have been part of an independent State of Ukraine if, in the time of the Great Homeland War, the Red Army had not liberated those territories from the German-Fashistic occupying forces, and subsequently from the poor and the collaborators. [[B in m in s a l in]] It is therefore an honor and praise to those who, in these difficult circumstances, contain monuments to the great warriors who won the Great Homeland War. [[B in m in s a l in]] And when I asked if there were any monuments to UN-OPA soldiers, I wanted to clarify how people viewed the outcome of the Great Homeland War. Nothing new, but if it's hard for a man to agree to lose, it's his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u132	National MP Simonenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u133	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state that the faction supports this bill, but I also want to address the citizens of Chortkowa: you will get nothing from this status, and I'm speaking frankly about it now. Yes, the officials will have a slightly higher salary, they've solved the question for themselves, and your life depends on whether or not we have an inheritance from the Soviet era. And you look around at what's left of you in Cortkow? Where are the factories that the Communists built so that you could have jobs so that you could have kindergartens to work in hospitals, schools, there would be roads for you to have jobs? These "snake"s are in power in the Ternopil region for 20 years, and what did they do? Only destroyed, the poorest made the Ternopil region in all of Ukraine’s years of independence the poorest area! And once again, I draw attention to the fact that the budget of the Ternopil region has not yet been approved. And that's the kind of "snake" they're offering today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u134	People's deputies please sign up for the speech. National Deputy Sabay, Freedom faction,
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u135	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u136	Dear MPs, Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This is a problem that has occurred in Ukraine today. In the Ternopil region, it's really not easy, because behind this scenario are the actions of the Party of Regions and the heads of the administration of Valentin Hobtian, who heads the Party of Regions. At his direction, indeed, the work of the district council is being blocked today, no deputies are being introduced. Representatives from the Party of the Regions, members of the Territorial Commission, do not go to meetings or participate. That's it. A district and representative body in the area is being deliberately destroyed. Realizing that the Ternopil area is really the opposition where the candidates are. and the deputies became representatives of the exclusive opposition, and this may irritate some authorities, so there's an instruction from the head and the administration that it might destroy our country. And we see, in fact, that today this leader, the district manager, is not responsible for all the criteria. He, like the deputy minister of finance, likes to come to meetings with a college or other representative body. And we see that this abuse of our country should stop. Therefore, the granting of the status of the Czartkov City to the area of regional importance is strategically important to our country. This will allow this, by the way, the city to develop additional financial revenues, people will get new jobs. Because really, this is the great city of our district, the second city after the city of Ternopolis. And that's why it's fundamentally important for us to get a new stimulus for our country, because the town of Kremenec, by the way, also claims to be of this kind of regional importance, and we're going to raise this question so that not only the Cremenets but also the Kremenets and the Coastans get the status of regional importance, because these cities have to get additional funding and the opportunity to develop for our country, and people have to get the benefit of that. We therefore call on the Party of Regions to support and still give the status of the Czartkov district, not to destroy the Ternopil region as an area of opposition, and to give a proper assessment to the head of the Hobtian district government to stop this drunkenness that he has led in the area today. And stop the abuse of our country. And finally, to bring the deputies into the district council so that the district council will start to work and protect, to defend the interests of the ternopolans and our country. So we call for support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u137	Dear National Deputies! Let us consult with you. Are we going to work until this is over or are we going to call it a break or are we going to vote? Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] The people's MP Melnik, the Freedom faction, is invited to the floor. He's giving the word "Michaelchino."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u138	Yuri Mikhailchisin, Freedom, city of Lviv. Here, from the representatives of the party of Gulag and Holodomor, who turned into a party of offshore fortunetellers who chewed the finches and had no conscience to repent of the history of their crimes, there was a thesis. As if all the good things that are in this country have been built by the Communists. So it's like 20 million normal people weren't driven to the gulag, where they worked in slave labor and built everything for "thank you." I'm not surprised by the geographical cretinism of some people in this session hall, for which the Churches are shown, in the Ivano-Frankow region! To them, Moscow is the capital of their family, and Sevastopol is a city of Russian glory. So there is nothing strange about dealing with such people. They say the Communists built everything?Oh, my God! Let them remember how in 1932-1933 people were taken away from everything that was valuable through "Tergsins" and built the Dniproges, Magnitogorsk! I'll tell you separately! Then they have a conscience, instead of repenting and kneeling before the Ukrainian people, they blame everyone. Because, you see, they're being prevented from working! You better remember the promissory notes as you vote! About your offshore companies, registered as members of your families! Remember who did the Holodomor, organized the gulag! And admit that you are their heirs both legal and genetic! Then you'll have the right to make claims in this room. As far as the matter is concerned, make your decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your fellow members of the National Deputies to support the granting of the Church's status as a city of district importance. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a 30-minute recess, until 12:30. The next one will be Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u140	Invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the national deputy Oleg Lašek. Please, Baby, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, you know, it would seem that the issue is not very important to the country -- giving the status of regional importance to the city of Chortkov, but its discussion shows very unfortunately the dangerous trends that are in our country. This effort, even on such matters, would be to split the country apart. I think it's a big mistake. Our Parliament, we are different people here, we represent different political views, but I think most of the people present in this Parliament are thinking about Ukraine and looking after its future. Yes, Ukraine will be a strong country when we are together. Because when you and I take care of you or the Sons or something. Only our enemies rejoice in this. And that's why I don't think we need to go east or west, but we need to take and do what's in the country's best interests. Because in Czartkov and in Chernigov and in Donbas and in Bilukurakin and in Svetgorsk and everywhere in the world there are Ukrainians, people who have chosen us here to lift Ukraine from our knees. I will vote in favour of this draft decision in favour of granting the status of district importance to the city of Curtov. But what I'd like to say is that those of you who are speaking are saying that granting this status will give you a chance to survive, to develop throughout the city. On the one hand, they're right, and on the other hand, they're not. Because it's really the Screws. And all of Ukraine will develop and survive under one condition when we radically change economic policy in the state. When we radically change political policy in the state. Why don't we do it from the point of view of the Cortovs as a district center, or do people get pensions, or will social protection get up there? Oh, no. As long as the government of Azarova sits in Kiev, as long as we have the kind of authority that we've had for the last 20 years, which has cared only for ourselves and not for the interests of citizens, there will be nothing in the country until then. That's why the Radical Party is proposing radical political change -- it's the elimination of district administrations, it's the elimination of district administrations. In order to restore agricultural production in both Courtkov and other cities and villages in Ukraine, we need to radically reduce taxes, reduce loans, deregulation of the economy, reduce the number of civil servants, eliminate any arbitrary procedures that lead to corruption. And then production and industry and agriculture will be restored, both in Czartkov and all over Ukraine. Here's what we have to do. The radical political, economic changes in our country's life will only save Ukraine and lift it from its knees.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u142	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Bukhovets.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u144	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u145	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished listeners! I would like to state once again on behalf of the faction of the Company that, by making this decision, unfortunately, it will not change the real conditions of life for the citizens of the city of Curtkova. And that's going to affect, first of all, the increase in the wages of officials and, obviously, it's not going to affect all of the improvements in the living conditions there. All Western investment expectations are illusions. And unfortunately, that's an illusion that people who fought for the mandate of a national MP are talking about, that is, they turn into liars. Investments will only be real when it's government policy, when people have jobs, wages and their rest of the funds that are free, they trust the state to implement this investment policy. That's all there is to it that we really need to implement the program, the anti-crisis program of the Company, which provides for the support of the Ukrainian producer, the protection of the Ukrainian economic space from the excitement that has taken place today. And, of course, it's also fair for a Ukrainian producer to have an external economic policy. There are no jobs, no wages, no taxes paid, no income taxes, and that's the limitation of local budgets, and then it's impossible to finance programs that are needed to change the status. The county budget has not been approved yet. Financing of budgetary institutions and social programmes in the amount of funding for the 2012 budget rather than 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ternopil region, listen to who you've chosen and who's bossing you there when the county's budget is still not approved and thus is limited to funding other programs?Oh, my God! I also demand to limit state budget subsidies because they are used in the Ternopil area to pay additional payments to SS troops Galicina, Nakhtigal, the police. This indicates that government funds are ineffectively used. I also want to confirm, and especially after one of the "instigators"' last speech, the faction has reconsidered its position on supporting this draft decision. And for the rest. When I'm in the Ternopil area, I want to remind you once again. When the Ternopil region became part of the Soviet Ukraine, there were prisons, brothels, and train stations in Ternopolis. Everything else was built in Soviet times for the people, Ukrainians living in the Ternopil region. And you didn't build anything there, and you're still robbing, stretching, stealing and destroying what the Communists built.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u146	Thank you. The Motherland Union, National Deputy Orobec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u147	Good health, fellow believers! You see, there's already so much of our discussion. First, it turns out that the Curts in the Ternopil region. But it's not just a point on the map. For me, this is my hometown. I grew up there. That's where my mother lives, and that's where my grandmother still lives. And many of you who said that with Soviet power it was easier, right, because there were 14 companies of republican importance in the Soviet government in Czartkov. One second: a confectionery factory, a distillery, a meat plant, a colindian concentration kit, a sewing factory, a craftsman, a conservatory, a tobacco plant, a bird factory, and many others. Now it's one sugar. That's true. But is it just the fucking government that is responsible for this? But I'm afraid the whole state is in this state right now. In the early 1990s, there were a lot of conflicts on religious ground. There were five churches and it came to the point that as children, the elders forbade us to communicate with each other because he was from that patriarch and he was from that patriarch. But we've been through this, too. And the community got together, and somehow it's trying to survive. Then came another calamity. People don't have jobs and they leave. And now it's rare on which street you can find young people, but a quiet city is being rebuilt. And I'm not standing on this stand in vain, and I'm going to ask each of you to maybe change your mind and vote in favour. So it has happened that the Ternopil region is the last region in Ukraine where only 1 city of regional importance is Ternopil himself. All the other areas have two, three and more of these cities. What does that do? When budgeted, such a city is set separately, and it has its own standard, that is, the minimum security, below nowhere else. These are exactly the paid salaries for teachers, for gardeners, they're definitely found money for at least minimal repairs of roads and utilities. The city needs and suffers from several very important problems. First of all, the utilities have been completely destroyed. For years, no funds have been allocated and no sewerage is actually available, and all the streams go into the river. And the longer the lack of funding gets, the greater the likelihood that it could just end up as an environmental disaster. A particular question is that of kindergartens. Moms in Western Ukraine continue to give birth, and to be able to go to work, gardening is very important. So colleagues, maybe for someone, it's just a point on the map, and for me, it's a wonderful city, where 40,000 people live in the middle of the city, where an old Cossack church is built without a single nail, where there's a huge congregation built by community funds, especially my late grandfather. I'm asking you to look at this. over them, think about what is true, the last area where there is no other than the district center of the city, the district assignment. And let's try to make both the city and the area win.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Showtime's over. The closing word is asked by Vasil Ivanovich Gladys. Please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u149	Dear fellow MPs, I invite everyone to the hall and ask, regardless of our affiliation to a faction in Parliament, to vote in favour. Perhaps if even from this rostrum some offensive words were spoken during the discussion, I ask you to forget them, to reject them, because the Ternopolska community and the Church community have nothing to do with it. First, when we do that, we'll support local self-government, not just declaratively, but real affairs. We're going to maintain a basic level, namely the local community, the fucking city council, the fucking community. Secondly, we will express our respect and respect for all of Ternopil, specifically the fucking community. Once again, we'll show that no matter what question we're considering, and where is one or the other city that specifically claims to be district status, we're the only one that we're voting on. And thirdly, let's be consistent. Let's think about how well we supported the Herson District Council initiative on granting the status of the city of district subordination, the regional significance of the city of Roast Lip. What I'm saying is that the Sons don't give in to anything, all the indicators that are in the Devil are the same as they were. I think that our sequence will be the right thing to do. I ask everyone to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u150	Thank you. I beg you, Hanna Hermann, a minute. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u151	Dear friends! Here is one of my countrymen who tried, who essentially ruined the compromise in this room and through which the Party of Regions, the faction of the Party of Regions, and the Communists would not be in favor of this law, tried to put the deputies on their knees, he said, you should kneel before the people. If they were as Shevchenko said, if you were to learn as you should, wisdom would be your own. If they read something, they would know that one of the parents of American freedom once said: The highest is the politician who can stand before God and the people on his knees. But they don't know that. They can destroy, they can destroy consensus. And today, unfortunately, the citizens of Czartkov should blame them for not having two large factions to support this decision because of such destructive statements. Instead, we will insist on accelerating administrative reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u152	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. It's not called anything, no lines. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please calm down, vote for yourself, personally. I'm voting on the draft Order (No. 2964) on the placement of the city of Chortkov in the Ternopil region into the category of cities of regional importance for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:48:05]] For 155 Against – 2, held – 27, did not vote – 184. The decision is not taken. One minute from each faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since it has happened that we have not been able to unite, I have a great request from the inhabitants of the very city of Courtkova, who have been waiting for such a decision for a long time. To vote that this law should not be rejected, but to send it back to the first reading. If such a compromise is found, I will be grateful to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u154	Thank you. From the faction of the Party of the Regions, Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u155	Despite the fact that my landlady has ruined the positive vote on this issue, we will ask the Parliament of the whole and also of the President of Ukraine to speed up administrative reform and so that all of these cities, such as Chortkows, can have more support than the state as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u156	From the strike faction, please, People's Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, it is not the first time we have seen, unfortunately, that Wednesday, which is supposed to be the day of voting for the opposition's bill, is turned into a campaign when the opposition votes for the ratification of the laws that the President of Ukraine is submitting for those laws if they are necessary for the country if they are submitted by the majority in independence from the name of the majority. And we see a different situation where our colleagues from two factions of the majority vote not for what voters need, but for the fact that they live not in the same region of Ukraine, but in 25 regions, depending on the name of the person who submitted it, depending on the factions that have registered the bill. Dear colleagues, this is a very unconstructive position, and it continues this subject, which, unfortunately, took power over the division of the country. And we address and appeal to you. We can't find a political relationship with you right now, depending on our names, our parties, and that's why the voters are suffering. Mr. Head, please go back to this bill, show that you are the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, and that this is the Parliament of the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u158	May I have the Freedom People's Deputy Kyle? You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! You know, well, once again we're looking at the farce that's happening in this part of Parliament: first they're talking about what they're willing to support, but after their oligarchs have given them instructions not to do so, they start manipulating consciousness, telling them that they're not going to vote for an important question because of someone. And the honorable, let's say, "earthmen" is what I'd like to point out is that your "director" who's engaged in handcrafting and indicates how, whether to vote or not, from the very beginning said that your faction would not support, is a stenographer, will not be supported because there's administrative reform and that there's probably some kind of reform. We don't know what the reason is. And so I would like to stress once again, don't do any handiwork or manipulation, don't do our Ukrainian people's propaganda. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u160	I beg you, Vladimir Litwin. I'll be with you in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u161	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Well, what's the point of finding out what we're dealing with? This is about 40,000 people living in this famous historical city. If it's a city by all parameters. This town deserves the status of the city, and we are obliged to make the right decision. And I would ask my honourable colleagues not to refer to administrative reform, and in the bright future, it will not be. That's equivalent to not voting for any law, they say, we're going to be looking at it in a complex way. Then let us decide that we are not considering the subject at all. And we make selective decisions about cities that don't reach that status, and here, where 40,000 people live, we don't make decisions. Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm asking you, let's go over our ambitions and make these decisions, go back to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u162	All the factions have spoken. The Communists stayed. Please, Martinyuk, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u163	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. First and foremost, the electorate and Ternopilska, and the city of Curtkova! I want to repeat the words that the leader of our faction Simonenko said. From what will be voted on or not voted on by the decision to take the city away, I emphasize that the city of Czartkova to the category of city of district subordination, the inhabitants will not win at all. Officials are going to win, because they're going to get paid and so on and so forth. So let the people of the city, any city, including Czartkova, think about whether they deserve their employees to raise their wages, whether they work well or perform their duties? That's the first one. And the second. And the others. Thank you, citizens of the city of Czartkova, for their undersecretaries who caused such a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u164	Thank you. Everyone made a statement. There was an offer to return to the subject. So for the sake of keeping things calm, I put the vote back to the draft decree. — No. 2964. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:55:06]] For-152. Against – 2, held – 24, not voted – 191. The decision is not taken. The factions. I'll bet you another vote. Return to the committee for re-read. People's deputies please vote, return to the committee for re-reading. [[12:55:46]] For-167 Against – 1, held – 14, not voted – 186. The decision is not taken. I think faction leaders, deputies need to work, and we can break the Rules and come back again. But do your job. Hear each other out. Let's move on. The draft Decree (No. 2063a) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" is under consideration. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Irina Igorovna Sekh, reports. Please. Short cut? Short cut? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:57:09]] For the 120th. Against 81, held – 12, not voted – 151. The decision is not taken. Let's look at it as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u165	Dear fellow MPs! Brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! Dear niggers! In line with the Supreme Council Order of 18 March 2013 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "On the state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." On April 17, 2013, there were parliamentary hearings on "The state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." More than 500 participants participated in the hearings, including the National Deputies; representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers; intelligence; local executives, scientists, public organizations; and Chernobyl from all parts of Ukraine, both from Lviv and from Donetsk, both from Kharkiv and Cherniv; public organizations that hurt and help us solve and overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster; and women from Japan came to care for our sick Chernobyl children. In this room, unlike today, there was really no place to sit. This indicates that so many people, there are 2 million people affected, 2,300 even, and 112 thousand people with disabilities of the first, second and third groups sincerely believe and hope that we will help them, friends. Since 2011, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster have unfortunately been overcome without a government program. The Supreme Council of Ukraine Order (since 15 October 2011) (No. 4035-6) has not yet been implemented with regard to the submission of draft laws on the State programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2014-2018 and on the listing of the population of Ukraine's radio-pollution zones as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. An analysis of the medical consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, their dynamics, and projections show that efforts to minimize medical consequences are insufficient. Increasing the effectiveness of medical care for those who have been exposed to radiation should be a priority in the years to come. During this time, Ukraine has experienced a very tense housing situation as a result of the Chernobyl disaster because of a lack of funding from the state budget of the Housing Programme for Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The housing issue requires nearly 40,000 families, some 10,000 of whom are disabled by the Chernobyl disaster. According to Ukraine’s 2013 national budget, 157 million dollars, taking into account the average cost of housing in Ukraine’s regions, will settle housing issues for some 56 percent of the Chernobyl disaster families. The current problem remains the provision of guidance for the recovery of adults and children as the provision of sanatorium services, compensation for the cost of sanatorium treatment for people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, the Chernobyl AES natural and technological complex, the Hidden Area, remains the epicenter of the Chernobyl disaster. According to the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System, the activity from the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the Protection to an environmentally sound system requires a period of about 100 years (paragraph 5 of the General Position of the Program). Therefore, the program contains a plugin where the activity is detailed in terms of tasks and actions that need to be carried out over a period of time. That's right, during the 2009-2012 period. Unfortunately, the program is funded at only 57 percent. As a result, the planned tasks and actions were not fully implemented, which in turn did not allow the main, society, the result: to stop the operation of the first, second and third energy clouds of the Chernobyl AES. The first step of the program is to start working with their final closure and preservation. This is the second phase of the program. This underfunding does not allow the necessary work to be done from the power supply of the Chernobyl AES. It complicates the co-operation of international projects and is generally insufficiently cost-effective. Since 12 years after the station’s final stop, the main costs are to support the station’s safety rather than to remove it from operation. In view of the fact that the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster are one of the main priorities of government policy in Ukraine, members of Parliament's hearings recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine based on data on the dosimetric passporting of population sites to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a project of the State-wide target, socio-economic programme "Overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster". Design and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the List of Populations assigned to Radioactive Pollution Areas on the basis of District Council Decisions. In the actions of the project of the National Targeted Social and Economic Programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the draft State Budgets for the following years, foresee solutions to the problems of improved health care, the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the acquisition of medicines; the complex socio-economic development of areas affected by the Chernobyl accident and the places of compact migration of citizens; the radiation protection of the population and the ecological recovery of contaminated areas; socio-psychological rehabilitation and information of citizens on the radiation state of the territory and the safe residence of citizens; the provision of employment and information systems. Also, in preparing for the budget changes, it is necessary to anticipate the cost of comprehensive health care and treatment of oncological diseases through the use of high-value medical technologies for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster; radiological protection of populations and ecological recovery of areas affected by radioactive pollution; scientific provision of work and information systems on the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster; support for the safe state of energy and the shelter of the Chernobyl AES; Ukraine's contribution to the Chernobyl Foundation for the shelter and nuclear safety of the EBRD; preparations for the preparation for the removal of atomic blocks and the handling of nuclear fuel and radioactive waste in Chernobyl. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting considered the draft decision and suggested that it be adopted as a decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u166	Thank you. Is there a question for the committee manager? None. Is it? Please sign up. Please, the Fatherland faction, the Dirov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u168	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u169	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, the city of Kiev. Your Honor, Mrs. Irina! Tell me, please, as head of the committee, young committee head, do you know anything about the unique invention of a Ukrainian scientist who proposed a completely new approach to speeding up the period of decay, arresting that fuel that was left in the fourth reactor, and he allows, if there are some radioactive materials that have a period of half-life or decay for centuries, its technology shortens this period, let's say there are tens and some radionuclei literally cancel the period of decay hundreds of times? He can't break through with his invention, he's being blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u170	Let me finish. Draw up a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u171	It is usually blocked by official science because it is an unconventional approach. Do you know anything? And if you do, will you support these new approaches, such as with me?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u172	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. All desiring to participate in the parliamentary hearings held in the Supreme Council took the most active part in these hearings. We made the most of it and took part in the discussion. You didn't name the scientist's last name, unfortunately. He didn't address me as head of the committee. I hope that you, as an experienced ex-committee head, will help me, young committee head, and organize a meeting with this scientist. I think that our working together will be good for both the problem and help solve the problems of the Chernobylites and the Chernobyl AES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u173	Last question, Fatherland faction, Vladimir Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u174	The United Opposition of Fatherland, Kiev, Volodymyr Bondarenko Dear Mrs. Irina, I realize that the problems of protecting people’s health and, above all, the young children at the time are of great importance. I realize that there are technical problems in protecting our country from possible disasters on this subject. I also realize, of course, that there are social issues that need to be resolved long ago. But what I'm curious about is was was in the course of these hearings, are they somehow reflected in the documents on the unique historical and ecological complex of Chernobyl? It is an ancient area that has preserved the remains of cultural objects of such a complex until now, and there are natural objects there today. And were these aspects, apart from those I spoke, in the view of those who had considered the matter at the hearings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u175	Thank you for asking. Yes, I know that the Recommendations of previous parliamentary hearings will reflect this issue. I also met with the head of this institution. I made the right calls. Is it about creating a museum? Yeah, I know that problem. The Committee on Environmental Policy is dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Time's up. People's deputies please sign up for a faction statement. Please sign up. Please, Freedom Union, the People's Deputy of Kyde. Please, National Deputy Mohnik. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u177	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear National Deputies! Dear Niggers! As a person who has seen the fourth reactor fire with his own eyes, as a person who has many friends among his acquaintances, with very many victims, with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, I can say that the main problem of the Chernobyl family is not the problem of legislation. This is the problem of what is happening in Ukraine today, how the authorities are now completely deliberately destroying both the constitutional field and the legislative field, and completely disregarding all the prescriptions of Ukrainian legislation. The same is true of Chernobyl. Because it is absolutely unacceptable that the Chernobylites who tried to enforce legislation, the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, who passed all the institutions, went through all the courts, won those courts, received the corresponding pensions, and then the government of Azarov had these pensions, literally brutally cancelled their letters, which included the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy, in social services, in the administration of social protection, to stop paying the already paid pensions. And those pensions that people have already received, some of whom have been able to receive for several years in a row, have brought them back to that pitiful state when they lack even a cure when they lack adequate rehabilitation for the lost health provided by Chernobyl law. So the question is very simple. To look forward to this authority, that it will in some way improve the situation that it will carry out legislation does not need to be done. Today, in fact, the entire army of Chernobyl is this protest electorate, that protest base against this power to actually change the situation in the state. Because without a change in the situation in the country, it is not possible to deal with the issues of the Chernobyl disaster, with other questions in Ukraine. Therefore, the All - Ukrainian Union will support this resolution of parliamentary hearings. Instead, we urge the Chernobylites not to despair, to remember that they were a serious, powerful force that had influenced politics in the Ukrainian State before, and today they are going to join the ranks of those who would change the situation in the Ukrainian State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u178	Petrenko, the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u179	Paul Petrenko, "Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u180	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u181	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Dear Chernobylites, liquidators, and those who have suffered that terrible disaster, who have protected our country with their lives and health! You're suffering the most right now. And they suffer precisely under the government of Azarov, who tried to limit social pay and social assistance to the Chernobylites and other socially vulnerable categories of citizens last year. And we remember here in the Marien Park, across the street from Kabmin, there were a number of times when these black people were starving, as they and the Afghans were filming the fence and storming the Supreme Council because they wanted to defend their social rights. They wanted to hinder the disgraceful bill, which was number 9127, just foreshadowed the limitations of the social rights of 13 categories of citizens. So what do we have now? That Mr. Azarov and his majority of Janukovich in the Supreme Council adopted this 2013 budget, where the Transitions have effectively suspended the 13 laws on social protection of Chernobyl, Afghans, war children and others. So the struggle, the nobles, for your survival, continues. I want to be grateful to those black people, those community organizations, the Union of Chernobyl Veterans, who are really fighting for their rights. It's not the strikebreakers that Kluev bought, it's the ones who are really fighting for their rights. And I'd like to finally point out that now there's an article in the Ukrainian Truth called "The Yanukovich Family Eats Blackwater Children," because those firms that have won a food supply tender in schools where most black people live have a profiled attitude towards Janukovic's son Alexander and provide inadequacy, poor nutrition for these children. And that's why Natalie the Queen needs to take care of the food for these poor children who have suffered from Chernobyl, not to think about the food, the cats and dogs she's been talking about. So, niggers, hold on and count only on your own strength! You and I will drop this criminal regime and you'll get what's rightfully yours!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u182	Vitalia Klitschka, People's Deputy Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u183	The Vitaly Klitschka faction, Paul Rosenko. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the social rights of the Chernobyl people and about the fact that they are not in Ukraine today. Of course, the question is that the government keeps telling us that there's no money, there's no money, there's no money, and that's when they're going to be there, and then all the black people are going to be provided. So, about the funds, I'm going to start with what Andrew Pavlovsky ended up with today's article in "Ukrainian Truth," which actually writes, journalists are doing terrible journalistic investigations. When asked by journalists, they found that food for the Chernobyl children today is actually used by construction firms, such as a tender for the feeding of the Chernobyl children in the District of the Plains region! I'll bet you don't. Where is the Plains region, and where is the Donetsk TOV? And how will it feed the children in the Plain region? So they won with a higher offer than the local society. After all, it's the Donetsk T.O.V. that hired this Equinox Society with limited responsibility as performers and put 3.5 million dollars in their pocket. So, at this approach, there's never going to be any money for Chernobyl children and for the solution of Chernobyl problems. At least in this power. Now for the second question. Court rulings on Chernobyl payments. You know, mass appeals to the court and the Chernobyls win in the courts. And the final decision of the Constitutional Courts. The Constitutional Court, that's right, that the government restricts the pensions of the Chernobylites. This is what the Constitutional Court has decided. And a week ago, the same Constitutional Court admits that the restrictions on pensions for judges, including the Constitutional Court, are unconstitutional, manifest. That is, the restrictions on pensions for Chernobyl, according to the Constitutional Court, are constitutional and the restrictions on pensions for judges are unconstitutional. I'm going to the Party of Regions, which is in control of all the courts in Ukraine today. Ladies and gentlemen! Stop the license of the Constitutional Court and all the courts of Ukraine, because they will bring you together with this Constitutional Court in villas for such decisions against the people. What should we do next? First. Changes to the budget. Applying changes to the budget immediately to increase all social benefits based on the sums of the 1st quarter. It's a requirement of the impact faction. And the second requirement of the impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u185	To the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today's article in "Ukraine's Truth" is to be discussed at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the invitation of the Minister of Social Policy of the Kingdom. We need to put order in this ministry and put it in the hands of officials, corruption officials of the Ministry of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u186	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Sameilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u187	Deputies! Parliamentary hearings have been held for 20 years. And every time there are measures to improve the situation in the Chernobyl area. Regrettably, this is evident in specific examples so far. Today, we have also heard in the report that such measures are being planned and that they will be carried out. Measures, in particular, speak of improving medical care. This subject is indeed relevant today. And if you look at our area of Zitomir, not just in general in Ukraine, you see that hospitals are being closed in particular in the Chernobyl area. I personally had to spend the last two weeks in the Chernobyl area in the Ouratsky and Malin region. In the Ovrutsky region, the last four hospitals are closed, including in the villages of Prvotravne and Napol. And literally that week, I went to Czopovich, where there are more than 6,000 people, and the city hospital is closing down. More than 600 attended the meeting. People were surprised by the decision to have the hospital shut down. In addition, almost all of Chernobyl’s obstetrics will be closed down throughout the Chernobyl area and not just across the Chernobyl area. Because the decision is that where the field office serves 100-300 people, it has to be closed. This is how we improve the conditions of our neighborhoods. Let's take another question. These are the benefits that the law and state today guarantees, food, wages, and pensions. Today, it's almost impossible for the black people to get it. In one district alone, the state owes people 150 million dollars. People don't know where to go and they're looking for bailouts, in public, they're going to the courts, the courts are going to make the right decisions to pay off these underpayments. Sadly, though, these payments are not paid either. And here on this Chernobyl disaster, which is scary, is the profit of crooks who make lawsuits in court and earn up to 30 percent of the amount they have to pay. There are many other problems that we need to resolve today. So I would like these decisions and the measures that we have made today to really make them happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u189	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand that the Freedom representatives are already talking about how we should vote! You've already been burned once before when you did everything you could to keep the document from being voted on! You're down! And now you're doing it again to get this document down! God is your judge! Hit it! Knock yourself out! Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Chernobyl's tragedy will not remind us of a decade. Hundreds of thousands, millions of people and heroes have been killed by soldiers, firefighters, builders who have eliminated the threat of a nuclear disaster in both Ukraine and the world. And millions of people who lived in Chernobyl who, too, were also affected by the Chernobyl disaster. But today's paper, which is prepared in the committee, if you read it, gives the impression that it's written brilliantly, flawlessly, but not in the committee, but in the office, in the office of the opposition party, some political power. But I think it's inappropriate, cynical today to try to make cheap political dividends on people's woes. Once again, if I look at the draft regulation, it is not a draft parliamentary order, it is a draft regulation prepared in the office of a certain political opposition force, and it can be considered at the assembly. This is brilliant for the convention, but not for the country's parliament. It is not the Parliament of a political party, it is the Parliament of the Ukrainian State and decisions must be taken in the interests of the State, taking into account the interests of the Ukrainian people. We therefore propose, and the Party of the Regions calls for no vote in favour of the party document to be accepted at the assembly. With regard to Chernobyl, both the President and the Government are under constant control. You know what's going on, building a "Hidden" facility. We will make changes to the budget, adjust this year's budget and the corresponding amount will be invested in increasing social benefits. The following year, even higher payments will be made to those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. But these will be real financial resources that result from the country's real financial capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u190	Honorable deputies who still wish to speak? Yes. Please sign up. Please, Vitaly Klitschka faction, Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u191	Sergey Kapplin, 144 constituency, Vitaly Klicka faction. I'd like to say, on this subject, not as an opposition MP, not as a person who is a strong objector of the majority. How about the son of a man who was one of the first suicide bombers in the Chernobyl nuclear power plant who died after a very serious disease -- oncosa. You know, it's a complete lie, manipulation and disrespect for the neighborhood and their families, the fact that we're saying there's no money right now to solve their problems. The whole world, in particular, Ukraine most of the people of the Party of Regions of each individual MP, and now I was just sad to see Sergey Tihypco applaud Chechtev. Sergey Tihypco as a financier should know that 1 million dollars per day is spent on the President. The party of regions is well aware that the President was spent 150 million on flights last year. The party of regions and communists is well aware that 250 million dollars were spent last year to build additional state funds for the DUSI, the Ukrainian President's Administration. The party of regions and communists is well aware that, through the Ukrainian border, as a smuggler, who is hiding and leading the well-known political power in Ukraine, which is part of the majority and because of corruption in Ukraine, which is led by the well-known political force in Ukraine, which is part of the majority, has been exported abroad to the sums that cause the whole world to shudder at the scale of the theft of our country by well-known politicians and oligarchs. All of these costs, the tenth part of these costs, are enough to at least nominally return some basic funding to sustain the Chernobylites. In order to increase their pensions, to at any rate decorate the rest of their lives that the Lord God has given them. Because they put their lives in place so that you, including Communists and regions, and as independent MPs, would sit here healthy and continue to organize this robbery of the state. I recommend that the issue of Chernobyl be resolved as quickly as possible, that the money be taken from the President and the Prime Minister, and that these unfortunate people be returned. Otherwise the opposition will come to power and build the biggest prison, right there at the sarcophagus, and you'll be sitting in it for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u192	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u193	Dear friends! Mikolo Vasilovich, please tell us, what difference does it make to the Chernobylers, who is involved in what political power? Please tell us what was wrong with people who were not asked to go to Chernobyl or not? They were also soldiers, they were just men and women to whom the country then said, "Save the people of Ukraine!" Please tell me, were the Chinese responsible for the demonstration with the children? It's politics, it was that former Communist party. I went with them twice to the Cabinet of Ministers for strikes. Please tell me, all of you, regardless of the parties, do you know that all the women in Pripeta who came to the strike at that time had stage IV cancer? And they asked the Prime Minister, who said that they would get a decent pension, as far as possible, with stage IV cancer, and one dropper cost 1,800, and they received 1,084 a month’s pension. Please tell me, how can you live with a black man who is a representative of the opposition in Donetsk, who was discovered only because he picked up the donnies, the criminal case, and a sick man two years ago is being wasted in Donetsk and said that he beat up such a healthy member of the Party of Regions? Please tell them how to get up when they're asked why they, the 2 million Chernobylers, won't come out and put up, they won't ask Mr. Azarov: How could you pass 63 decrees in 2011? Now answer for yourself. You and I have now received a bill from the Supreme Council from a government that proposes to cancel the government's debt to war children, to the black people, to those who have been able to win the courts. So we have no moral right today to say who was preparing what decision, which party to which. If we have an understanding of responsibility, we must support this decision and control the execution of each of its points. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u194	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, the Zabzaluk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u195	I give the word to Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u196	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u197	United Opposition, Fatherland, Vladimir Bondarenko I want to tell you that I have a direct bearing on these problems, because in 1986, when I was acting as deputy head of the then Leningrad district, I used to go to the Chernobyl area every year before, we made an agreement on our joint activities, because we were chiefs of this area. And in the Sanhedrin area today there's a street called Chernobyl, which is far and wide from the crash, it's in the Sanhedrin. In my area, we received accommodations for practically all the toasters who had arrived. And I was giving them warrants for apartments that had already been issued to the Chinese. It was a terrible, conflicting situation, but we got out of it, and all the people were satisfied, because a year later, those kyans that had these warrants were compensated by other apartments. I want to say that in my constituency, there is a so - called Allied Center of Radiation Medicine, which has been fueled by this very expensive equipment, which, unfortunately, does not work in the majority because our Ministry of Health thinks about how to buy new and new equipment for $50 million or $500 million, rather than how it works for the health of people. So when we talk about what's happening today, as a deputy, I accept practically every reception of people who come with original documents, travel documents, reward documents at work, especially automobiles, and say the courts expel us because we don't have the original documents from our ATP. And the ATP is gone, it doesn't have the system that it was, and it doesn't have these ATPs, and people are just chasing them around. I have the impression that today's government has swept this whistle around the Chernobyls and other alcohol categories in order to achieve that the problem itself has sucked. It disintegrates when new and new rows of portraits are added near the monument to the Chernobylites in the Most Holy. Look, there are new and new rows of portraits that are no longer among us each year. So I would suggest that not only do we approve the documents, but I would ask the government today to think about it, we can close with a one-time subsidy for local budgets on the issue of Chernobyl's 40,000 apartments that are needed today. A special health care program for Chernobyl could be developed once, including those outstanding buildings that I talked about that don't work. It would be possible to remove the problem of the benefits for the children of the Chernobyl family once, but it would really be a benefit for those who have suffered. And so I would like to encourage you, dear friends, not to make us enemies in this room, but to think that we are all representing the Ukrainian people, and there are those who have suffered in particular, and today need our attention. Instead of turning it into political battalions, it is the issue of the Chernobyls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u198	Freedom Union, national deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u199	Please pass the word to the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u200	Peaceable People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u201	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. When our column was moving towards Pripeti, we had a quick ride, a few quick rescues, where the firemen were taken to the airport, and then Moscow. And you know, when we were driving the cement to those who were flooding the reactor, driving the lead, there was no one who could even think about what was going to happen, when officials who weren't there would come and tell those people who came to them with help, because unfortunately, those people who actually had their chests closed that fire could now come to the officials. No one could have imagined what these officials would say to their faces, and we did not send you there. We didn't go there either! But we did our duty, we protected our children and yours, and we did not equalize or distinguish each other! What do you say now?Oh, my God! What will your government say now?Oh, my God! Think about it! Remember, unfortunately these people cannot protect themselves! Remember, if we do not mention them, they will indeed die! But you will look into their children’s eyes. And what do you say now, really, the judge has no right to get rid of the pension, and the black man has?Oh, my God! Think about what you're saying, please! Really, please! Because there are no other options. You won't think it'll come back to all of you. What do we have to tell these people right now, how can we protect them? That there's no money in the budget? That you can steal from the budget?Oh, my God! So maybe we shouldn't do the things we do?Oh, my God! Should we not spend the most expensive time in the Euro - 2012 world?Oh, my God! Don't you have to buy trains that don't drive?Oh, my God! Don't you have to spend money on roads that don't exist?Oh, my God! But money is stolen and built most expensively in the world. Maybe we should just mention that we're a sick nation! To remember what we've protected the world, we've protected Europe! To remember what we must do for those who are still alive, and the main mass of people, indeed, should deserve to receive pensions! You're hiding from what the crowd attributed. Yeah, sorry, when you fly over the war zone and you become a part of the fighting, is that what a private person can do, or is it what an official and the highest officials in the state do?Oh, my God! Surrender! I propose to vote in favour and to support our proposals! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u202	A party of regions, a national deputy of Hanna Herman, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u203	From this rostrum, some who, according to our friend Boris, did not build a doghouse in life, threatened to build a prison in Chernobyl near the sarcophagus. You know, Basil Stus said prison doesn't grow up to be heaven. We don't have to build prisons with you, we have to build shelter for the neighborhoods, for their children, for their grandchildren, and that's what we have to take care of here with you, not prisons. You know, they used to be like that. Prisons built where they were, you know. So I urge you to ask this question differently. And to talk about how we need to change this approval in order to make the lives of black people easier. You haven't done anything yet. And so you didn't mention that at the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, by gathering a representative world forum in Ukraine, the President of Ukraine had attracted 4.5 billion dollars of money to our country. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is 550 million euros that the President of Ukraine has gathered to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. He did it. What did you do? You want to build a prison, and we want to build a place. You want to plant people and make politics scary Ukrainian, and we suggest you redesign this project of adoptions, decisions in such a way as to throw out all the populism, all the dirt, and identify the basic tasks for the state at this stage that we must do together. This is suggested by us, people who are used to working specifically and working for results. Populistic things and jails must be thrown away, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u204	I beg you, Irina Igorovna Sech, do you have a closing word? Please, the closing word, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u205	Two million 300 Chernobylites can't understand where populism in parliamentary hearing recommendations, namely the draft of a state-wide targeted socio-economic programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, is it not necessary? Ukraine's Bill "On the List of Populations Concentrated to Radioactive Pollution Areas Based on District Council Decisions", is it not necessary? Speed up preparation and introduction to the Supreme Council of a draft Ukrainian law on the state-wide knowledge programme for the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES? Where is populism? A draft amendment to the Act on mandatory State Pension Insurance on the payment of pensions to persons who worked in areas of radioactive pollution under the tax conditions provided for in the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is not necessary? Where is populism? The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on General Principles for Further Exploitation and Exploitation of Chernobyl AES is not necessary? Measures of the Public Target Program project, social measures. Measures to improve health care, sanitation, child health. That's all right. Where's populism, Mrs. Hanna Herman? You're a mother, you're a woman. Where populism is in the process, tell me. To ensure that the 2008 Supreme Council Regulation on the state, measures and prospects of the Chernobyl disaster that has been approved is implemented? Is it not necessary to ensure the proper implementation of Ukraine's international obligations to pay Ukraine's contributions to the Chernobyl Fund? So it was very clear, very balanced, that the committee approached the decision. The proposals were taken into account by the Chernobyl organizations of all. Very much -- once again, I emphasize -- it's been weighed down. These measures are very necessary long ago. And so, you know, you can't politicize this issue right now, but you need to help people who cry for help and who don't come here because they don't have the strength or the health or the festering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, a replica. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u207	Populism is that all of the items listed here can be implemented, and there are all the legislative reasons for that today. The Party of Regions proposes, the faction of the Party of Regions in Parliament proposes to return the project to the committee, to create a joint general-parliamentary working group, and to make such a concrete draft decision to Parliament, which would indeed be working towards the realization of the tasks facing Ukraine in facilitating the lives of the Chernobylites and eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-06-19-m0.u208	Who's yelling so loud? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's prepare and vote. I am voting on the draft Resolution (2063a) on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The state, measures and prospects of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." For adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:49:50]] For-154 Against – 1, held – 18, did not vote – 150. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's gone. The factions. A suggestion was made by the German people’s deputy to return to the committee for work, to read again, and to make a concerted offer. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:50:51]] For 242 Against 0, held 0, didn't vote 90. Decision taken. The factions. Vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I want everyone to part in a good mood today. We have so many questions. There is one decision that I think can unite us all. Let's take a look at the draft Decision on the preparation and marking of the 200th anniversary of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. Let us accept this decision without discussion, and I think this decision can unite us. May I put it to a vote? The author is national deputy Yatzenko, and the February 6th committee did not consider this question. Can I put it to a vote? Well, let's not discuss it. I'll put it to a vote. Let's vote! Do you want this decision to be overturned? Let's vote! Put it in? Let's do it! I'm betting on the vote of the Order (number 2211) on the preparation and marking of the 20th anniversary of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:53:08]] For 245 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 86. Decision taken. The factions. The factions. I'll take the order. Dear friends, there is a statement by the National MP. He's asking me to read it. This is Kaltsev Sergey Fedorovich. On the question of the denunciation of the agreement, he accidentally pressed the pros button. Please call back when you consider the matter. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite you to the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all for your work.
