ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. Good morning, guests invited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:07:44]] There were 248 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Maria Vasilovna Matios. Let's say hello to Maria Vasilovna for everyone's birthday. We wish you success, all good things. She was born on a very important holiday — today the Christmas miracle worker’s day. Let us sincerely wish all our fellow countrymen good, warm, and comfort in every family, and we wish all of us to continue to feel the love and care of St. Nicholas and the realization of all good plans and dreams. With a holiday! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an announcement. We have now consulted with faction leaders and are making a proposal because we have very important issues for today’s consideration, these are also the State’s budget, these are very important laws. So there's an offer to agree on the order of the day session to take a break. I'll take a break in 14 hours so the committees can work so the MPs can work on the laws you have. We will now gather, faction leaders, in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to consider all the issues and at 14 o'clock we will consider the issues that we will define with the faction leaders. An interval of up to 14 hours is announced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a working day of the day until 6 p.m. Negotiations are very difficult. I think we'll find an understanding soon enough. We have work for about an hour and a half. And so that we don't get together on this issue tomorrow, we're going to look at all the questions. So I'm asking everyone to stay in the session room. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u3	I'll do it when we start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u4	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Volodymyr Vasilovich, invite everyone there to the session room. Is Petrenko in the session room?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u5	Where? I don't see Petrenko. Invite people's deputies, dinner, lunch, it's over, then they'll have dinner. Caplin's been sitting, having dinner, all right. Replica, who's asking, Capplin? Yeah, where the reporter is, I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u6	Where? Let's get Petrenko over here. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm still inviting you. Not everyone's here yet. I don't see them all from Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, we've opened a morning session with you today, so I'd like to close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and open the evening session after the registration. I'm asking you to prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:55:37]] There were 367 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to make an ad, read out the application. A statement. I'm informing you of my exit from the party of the Party of the Regions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. People's MP Melnichenko. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have held a meeting of faction leaders. Many have considered various suggestions and have made decisions: now the first question is to consider the draft Law on the Elimination of the Negative Effects and the Inadmissibility of Persecution and Punishment of Those What Happened During Peace Meetings. We agreed to listen to the people’s deputy Petrenko. Please, National Deputy Petrenko, two minutes, and without discussion, make a decision. Then consider four more laws and listen to a presentation about 20 minutes of the budget, the State budget for Ukraine for 2014, please. The draft Law (No.3787) is therefore under consideration. Please, National Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u7	A bill on the removal of negative consequences and the failure to prosecute and punish those involved in peaceful meetings is being reported. Article 1. To relieve persons who participated in protests and mass action against their actions and decisions from 21 November 2013 until the date of entry into force of this law. Article 2. All criminal conduct and conduct in connection with the commission of administrative offences revealed in connection with the events defined in article 1 of this Law are subject to closure. Article 3. New criminal conduct and conduct in connection with administrative offences cannot be detected by reference to the events defined in article 1 of this Law. Article 4. Persons who are criminally held responsible for administrative offences in connection with the events defined in article 1 of this Law are exempt from liability and are recognized as having no jurisdiction and responsibility for administrative offences. A decision has been made by the authorized body under this law within 10 days of its taking effect. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. This law is a requirement of millions of Ukrainians. I'm asking you to uphold this law in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u8	Thank you, sit down. May I have your attention, please? Prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law (No.3787) on the elimination of the negative consequences and the non-persistence of persecution and punishment of persons in connection with the events that took place during peaceful meetings – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:00:27]] For 339 Against 2, held – 1, not voted – 62. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 176, Fatherland - 75, Vitalia Klicka - 31, Freedom - 36, Company - 0, non-fractional - 21. Draft laws (registration numbers: 3757, 3757-1, 3757-2, 3757-3) on the amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code on individual taxes and taxes are under consideration. How do we view it? We agreed to consider the procedure and not to discuss it. So I'm going to give my word to the reporters for two minutes, and I'm going to put a committee proposal to the vote. Please, the head of the Vitaly Juryovich Homutinnick Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! The draft legislation before Parliament is part of the next year's review of the Ukrainian State Budget. For us, it is necessary to settle just the questions that stand in time, considering that the New Year is near. Bills submitted by the National Deputies: the first 3757 is a committee bill, the authors are members of a committee; the 3757-1 is a national deputy of Omelchenko; the 3757-2 is Senchenko and Terjohin. According to the first bill, to which members of the committee met, to support it on the basis and in general. Why on the foundation and in general? Because we realize that we don't have time to go through a full procedure. What is proposed? A very concise list of tax standards is proposed, which are in principle consistent with all parliamentary groups and governments. First. It is proposed that the entry into force of the reduction of the tax rate be reduced to one year’s added value. That is, if 17 percent since the following year, it is proposed that this position be postponed for one year. The income tax also offers a reduction of 1 percent per year, i.e. in the following year it will be not 19 percent, but 18 percent, in 2015 17 percent, and in 2016 we will be 16 percent. Also, a 14 - percent increase in excise duty on alcohol and other alcoholic beverages is agreed with.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u10	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u11	This position is also in agreement with the professional associations and the government. Continued exemption from tax on the added cost of unprocessed skins, metallurgy, macular and wood operations for the following year, for 2015, cancellation of the import tax on Ukraine’s natural gas customs territory, and double the collection rate for the special use of forest resources. This bill generally gives the State budget plus 35. About 35 billion dollars. Without this bill, it will be difficult to consider, of course, the State budget of Ukraine for the following year. With regard to other bills, the next bill 3757-1 was also proposed by the committee to accept as a basis if the first one was accepted as a whole, if such a procedure was acceptable, and to continue to work on it in the following year, in the next plenary week. The third bill is accordingly proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I want to focus on the need to adopt it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u12	Thank you. Have a seat. The national MP, Omelchenko, will report on his law? No, it's not. People's deputy Sanchenko? No, it's not. No, it's not. It's a deal. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. The committee made a proposal: The Law (No. 3757) is to be adopted as a whole. So I'm voting on draft Act No.3757 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for individual taxes and taxes) -- to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general. Please vote. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general. [[17:06:45.]] For 241 Against - 3, held - 4, not voted - 92. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 192, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. Next. A draft Act (3769) is under consideration to amend the Ukrainian Act on State Service (on taking effect). How do we view it? Short procedure, no discussion. Please vote. Please vote. May I have your attention, national deputies? [[17:07:51]] For a hundred and Against 46, holding back - 3, not voting - 104. Decision taken. Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki, 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! A new edition of the Ukrainian State Service Act, registered number 4050, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 17, 2011 and signed by the President of Ukraine on January 10, 2012. In doing so, the law provided for its entry into force on January 1, 2013. On 20 November last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act (No. 5483) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which was transferred to one year from 1 January 2014 to take effect in connection with the need for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities and ensuring a simultaneous and coordinated introduction of new laws. The absence of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government can lead to differences and contradictions in the legal regulation of social relations in the conduct of the service in local self-government authorities, since such conduct is ensured by certain rules of the current Ukrainian Act on Public Service of 16 December 1993. In addition, the implementation of the new Ukrainian Public Service Act will require an increase in public budget expenditure to pay for the work of civil servants. The introduction of a law without financial security will result in debt from wages, further reductions in the number of government officials, increased social tension, and so forth. With a view to fully implementing the administrative reform initiated by the President of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the simultaneous and coordinated implementation of Ukraine's new legislation on the State Service and Service in Local Self-Government, the only reasoned decision remains the postponement of Ukraine's State Service Act (No.4050) as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u14	Thank you. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Prepared for the vote? What do you do in the end? What kind of meeting is that? Sit in your seats and vote. Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 3769) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service (on taking effect) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:11:12]] For 240 Against 0, held – 22, not voted – 98. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 191, Parenthood - 0, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 19. A draft Act (No.3766) on amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is under consideration (to clarify the revenue of the State budget). Reported the chairman of the committee, Geller Evgeny Borisovich. There's a reduced supply procedure. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:12:11]] For 190 Against 44, held – 8, not voted – Decision taken. The factions. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 18 December, considered a bill amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013 under number 3766. Presented by the national deputy Paul Constantine Yuriovich. The bill provides for clarification of the revenue of the State budget in order to properly implement the expenditure of the State budget by the end of the current year. The main scientific and expert office notes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of statements, observations and corresponding conclusions of the government. The Ministry of Finance is proposing a bill for consideration and adoption. Since there are other bills on income change and government budget financing on the Supreme Council's consideration, it is necessary to clarify the relevant indicators if they are to be adopted before the bill is considered. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on number 3766 to be adopted on the basis and as a whole, taking into account the need to clarify the indicators of the State budget and the state debt in the bill and the additions thereto in accordance with the current drafting of the State Budget Act and the bills to be adopted by the Supreme Council under the bill. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should be prepared for the signature of this bill if adopted, should carry the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications related to the approval of the committee's decision under the bill. Please support the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u16	Can I have five more seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u17	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u18	This law is necessary in order to get a loan from the Russian Federation of three billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u19	Thank you, sit down. Dear National Deputies! The proposal to vote on the committee as a whole, as a whole. But the national deputy Lazko is against voting in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've announced you. He'll be a minute. One minute, Easy please, and I'll put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to be screened, Vladimir Vasilovich, to report that I am against the adoption of this bill as a whole. Because there are a number of very important points to be made before this bill. First of all, the bill that is proposed to cut the state budget's spending by 18 billion dollars, 20, to raise its income by 14 billion, is the whole government issue, it's not a question of the people's MP. This shows the unprofessionalness, the inability of the government of Azarov to plan the budget, predict economic development, economic indicators -- this shows the bankruptcy of the government of Azarov. It's a reduction in expenses that you're now offering on the social sphere, on pensions, on wages, and so on. So I firmly deny the adoption of the law as a whole only in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u21	Thank you. I'm asking the chairman of the committee to explain, and I'm betting on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u22	Your Honor, Mr. Olege, the MP has the right to submit a bill, so don't pry, please. Therefore, please support the hall as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act (No. 3766) amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 (for the clarification of the revenue of the State budget) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:17:17]] For 243 Against 15, held – 3, not voted – 89. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 195, Parenthood – 0, Vitalia Klitka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 17. A draft Act (No. 3768) on the amendment of the Law on the judiciary and status of judges (on the official salary of judges) is under consideration. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Martovický Artur Volodymyrovich. How do we view it? Please vote on who supports the reduced procedure. [[17:18:17]] For 190 Against 45, held – 3, not voted – 112. Decision taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Judicial and Judicial Status of Judges (Registration No. 3768). According to the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, from 1 January 2014 the minimum wage of judges should be increased from 10 to 12 times the minimum wage. The implementation of this law requires some 600 million dollars of government funds. At the same time, the country’s economic situation, continued instability in the world’s commodity and financial markets, and the fragile development of the world economy pose risks to macroeconomic projections for 2014. Under such conditions, it is not possible to foresee a higher salary for judges. The introduction of the "On the Courtship and Status of Judges" conditions for the work of judges without financial security will result in debt from salaries in courts and a corresponding increase in social tensions. With a view to balancing the state budget and avoiding additional public budget expenditure for judges' work in the amount of about 600 million dollars whose sources are not available, the draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary and the status of judges and excludes the rule for an increase in the salary of the judge from 10 to 12 times the minimum wage from 1 January 2014. The adoption of the proposed draft law will avoid the negative consequences of the introduction of Ukrainian law on the judiciary and the status of judges in part of the payment of judges' work. In view of the relevance of the bill, I propose to adopt draft Law No. 3768 as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Prepared for the vote? Everybody ready? I'll bet you a vote. The committee's proposal what? Based on what? And the whole thing? I am voting on draft Act No. 3768 amending the Law on the judiciary and status of judges (on the official salary of judges) to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:21:29]] For 245 Against - 3, held - 5, did not vote - 97. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the specifics of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2014. How will we consider this provision? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:22:24]] For-200 Against 48, held – 4, not voted – 101. Decision taken. The factions. Report the draft decree to the head of the Committee, Guiller Eugenius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council a draft State Budget Act 2014 under registration number 3000. For the time being, all the terms of consideration and acceptance established by the Supreme Council Rules have passed. However, taking into account the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code, and taking into account the Government's proposal to use such a bill, it is proposed to deviate from the established procedure for considering the bill and in accordance with article 50 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure to adopt such an ad hoc procedure. The government today submits to the Supreme Council a bill on the State budget for 2014. After that, considering. New Year's Eve, the National Deputies are given the opportunity to consider such a bill within three weeks and to submit their proposals to the Budget Committee no later than 8 January. To entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs with the participation of authorized government representatives during the week to consider the proposals made by the National Deputies and to prepare proposals for the bill and to submit them to the Supreme Council by 10 a.m. on 16 January. Accordingly, the Supreme Council will have the opportunity to consider such a bill on 16 January on the proposals of the Committee on Budget Issues and to accept it as a whole. Please support this procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat. I am betting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (No.3000P) Resolution on the features of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's State Budget 2014 – for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:24:55]] For 246 Against 8, held – 3, not voted – 94. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the introduction of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2014. You've got your budget. The first deputy minister of finance for Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, is given for the report. 15 minutes to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u29	Dear people's deputies, there will be more votes, everyone will remain in place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u30	A decision has just been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u31	Another law is for us to adopt.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u32	The Supreme Council's decision on the 2014 draft budget procedure has just been taken, and that is why my presentation today concerns the presentation of this draft law for the following year. I'd like to say a few words about the conditions that we have, the development of the world economy, and in Ukraine, what's happening in 2013 and, of course, what's affecting the forecast for next year. The instability of the world economy this year is characterized by indicators that, overall, Eurosona's GDP in the third quarter of this year fell by 0.4 percent. World steel prices dropped by 7.5 percent. The International Monetary Fund in October reduced the outlook for the global economy this year from 3.1 percent to 2.9 percent. That is, external factors have a negative impact on the development of the economy and Ukraine next year. Yes, especially during this year, exports of goods decreased by 9 percent by 10 months. In particular, metal exports are 8.8 percent. Internally, there are positive factors that affect the dynamics of the economy next year. And this is about implementing energy efficiency and import substitution policies. The coordinated policy of the National Bank of Ukraine and the government. Continuation of social standards and wage increases stimulate domestic demand. So the average monthly nominal salary in January-Yellow increased by 8.2 percent, including 8.7 percent real. The volume of retail trade increased by 9.2 percent in 10 months. There are also positive steps and positive trends in the banking sector. Of course, in these circumstances, compared to the macro-indicators forecast, which were based on the preparation of the 2014 budget in September, we adjusted and the corresponding nominal value of GDP fell by almost 42 billion dollars to 1.653 tenths*** trillion dollars. We're predicting an increase in real GDP at 3 percent. And the development of the economy will also be affected by the external factors that we expect with regard to the gradual recovery of the world economy, the improvement of relations with trading key partners, and the restoration of dynamics, positive dynamics in exports. And we also see the development of internal factors related to the further implementation of economic reforms, the development and implementation of the National Economic Revitalization Programme, the continuation of deregulation policies and the improvement of the investment climate and the development of the internal market, and the further promotion of domestic demand by increasing basic social standards and guarantees. With regard to budget income. In general, we're predicting a consolidated budget of almost 500 billion dollars. The level of redistribution through the budget remains at 30.2 percent of the gross domestic product. So it's practically in the historical framework. The state budget is estimated at 389.7 billion dollars next year, and the general budget is 344.8 billion dollars. In the forecasting of the income part, those legislative initiatives that were envisaged by the government in the Final Positions are taken into account, but today they are implemented by the Supreme Council as laws and will accordingly be removed from the Final Provisions Act of the State Budget Act for the following year at its final adoption according to the approved schedule. An existing tax system is included in the budget for the income part. Well, especially social tax benefits and it's 4.6 billion dollars, tax credits on the income of individuals, and other tax preferences today. In terms of budget deficits, next year the draft Law provides for a deficit of about 60 billion dollars or 3.6 percent of gross domestic product. Ukraine is moving in this direction in synchronized dynamics with foreign countries, particularly European countries, where overall deficits are declining compared to 2013 and Asia. In most European countries, in addition to reducing budget deficits, there is a reduction in expenditure. Well, in Spain, for example, you know, the expenses of revenge, salary payments, frozen salaries in the holding sector, and other costs that don't have social orientation. In France, subsidies are also cut short by territorial formation. In Portugal, cuts in the budget sector. In Greece, too, there is a similar reduction in the budget sector. Under these conditions, i.e. the reduction of the deficit in 2014, compared with the expected deficit in 2013, the government and the President are planning to increase social standards. Of course, it's not as big an increase as it was in 2010-2011. But these social standards will rise almost twice as high as the average inflation rate. So with inflation, the average 4.3 percent, all of the social standards will grow by 8.1 to 8.2 per cent year-on-year, depending on the type of percentage. The budget provides for the following year's income from the privatisation of 17 billion dollars. There is an appropriate approved list of enterprises that will be subject to an appropriate privatisation procedure. State guarantees are projected for up to 50 billion dollars next year. Priority innovation projects that are of national importance will be selected. And according to the procedures, funding will be provided for these projects. In addition, it is planned to issue domestic government bonds with the aim of completing the statutory capital Naftogaz Ukraine, almost 15 billion dollars. Unfortunately, we're still going to have this company subsidized. As well as 5 billion dollars for the development of the Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the aim of implementing state-wide programmes and projects aimed at modernizing industry. State debt will be 35 percent of gross domestic product at the end of the year, with up to 40 percent of GDP considered safe for emerging countries. At least. contracts provide for this ceiling to be up to 60 per cent of gross domestic product. The expenditure of the budget is projected at $562.9 billion. So almost 500 plus deficit is exactly the amount of expenditure. The government budget is 328 billion dollars, local budgets $234.9 billion. The following year, three, in fact, are planned to increase the minimum wage, i.e. to extend from 1 January the minimum size that was set in December, as well as two iterations in the following year, is from 1 July the minimum wage of 1.250 dollars, and from 1 October of 1301 the gross, i.e. the average growth per year will be 8.2 percent. The increase in the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the ECSC will, in general, be in December. By December, 18.7 percent. So we're going to get closer, equalize the gap between a single tariff charge and a minimum wage. In general, it is envisaged that in the following year, 10.7 billion dollars will be spent additionally. Similarly to the minimum wage, an average of 8.1 percent of the living minimum is achieved. In addition, in the following year, expenditure of 11.4 billion dollars is proposed for the implementation of budget expenditure related to the minimum cost of living. The following year it is also envisaged to provide funding for the President’s social initiatives. In total, this amounts to 42 billion dollars, of which the socializations that began in 2012 increased and accounted for 36.9 percent. billions of dollars. The new socializations announced by the President in 2013 are provided with a financial resource of 5.1 billion dollars, including an increase in the level of subsistence allowance for children during the assignment of State social assistance, an increase in the level of children's enrolment in extra-school education, the provision of summer schools for gifted children, an increase of 25 per cent, an increase in the level of child support for children with disabilities, the modernisation of children's sports courses, an increase in the number of children with disabilities, and the implementation of the "Intellectual Future of Ukraine" programme. The State budget subsidy, one of the largest amounts in social spending, aid to families with children and low-income families, disabled children and children with disabilities, will be increased by 8.8 billion dollars next year, or by 22 percent, and will amount to 49 billion dollars. Thus, the budget provides 6 billion dollars to compensate for lost savings. This amount is foreseen by the program, number 351. 13.50, you can find it there. In the following year, there was also an increase of 4.1 billion dollars in the transfer to the Pension Fund, which is 5 percent of the increase and total amount of funds that will be counted from the State Budget of the Pension Fund, which is 87.4 billion dollars, which will be able to fully finance pensions next year. With regard to the additional expenditure that has been foreseen according to individual priorities, I would like to point out that there will be an increase in the size, the average monthly minimum pension size, of 72 bracelets. There will also be payments to more than 30,000 multi-child women who are assigned the honorary title "Mother of Ukraine", the total amount of payments is 12,000 180 dollars each. Payments to disabled and unemployed persons – over 14,000 in the amount of 485 dollars. For those who have suffered from human trafficking, the average payout will be $147.5. There will also be increased scholarships for students who are learning differently. There will also be new social initiatives aimed at expanding the network of preschool institutions. Similarly, funding will be increased under the "Money Gossip Baby" subsidy. For the first time, it is also envisaged that young workers who have completed their studies and have worked in teaching, medical, and pharmaceutical jobs in villages and villages will receive 100 million dollars. In addition, financial payments will be made to medical personnel in the emergency health care system — 400 million dollars; and the staff of the ambulance will charge an additional 300 million dollars. Overall, financial support for the health system in the pilot regions will be provided in an additional amount of 0.7 billion dollars. In addition, the State budget provides for the financing of nearly 100 million dollars of the Institute of Hearts of the Ministry of Health for the provision of oxygen medical cardiosurgery. The capital expenditure for the following year is concentrated by two budget programmes – centralised capital expenditure (3.5 billion dollars) and Regional Development Fund (also 3.5 billion dollars). And the stated priorities that will be provided by financing these funds include the acquisition of school buses, computers, textbooks, the construction of perinatal centres, housing of vulnerable categories, including military personnel, members of the military and the primary staff, and so on. As far as local budgets are concerned, improvements in the current system of calculation of inter-budget transfers are envisaged next year, namely equalisation and subsidy grants. In general, the State budget will be listed.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u33	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u34	In general, the national budget will be listed in the local transfer budgets of $128.4 billion, including the levelling grants of $63.2, additional grants of 1.2 and grants of 63.9 billion. And I've already pointed out that the Regional Development Fund is 1 percent of the revenue -- 3.5 billion dollars that we're going to use -- that we're going to distribute, taking into account the proposals of the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat. Questions. When we consider first reading, there will be questions. The submission of the draft State Budget Act for 2014 has been completed. In accordance with article 154 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the State budget is considered to be accepted by the Supreme Council for further work. We made a special decision with you and wrote questions, reports, and so forth. Next. A draft Act No. 2737 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code (consolidated group of taxpayers) is under consideration. How do we view it? I'll bet you a reduced vote. [[17:42:46]] For 175 Against 42, with negative 1, there was no vote of 114. Decision taken. Please, report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Valeriyovich Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u36	Good evening, dear fellows! Good evening, Your Honor, Volodymyr Vasilovich! You see a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code Amendment Act (consolidated group of taxpayers). The adoption of this bill is subject to the adoption of the Ukrainian Transfer Price Act, because international practice shows that a consolidated group of taxpayers is always within the consolidated group of taxpayers. What does that mean? These changes are called upon to optimize and facilitate the administration of these taxes accordingly to increase the investment attractiveness of our economy and to raise our country in the "Doing Business" rating. It should be noted that a consolidated group of taxpayers came into existence at the beginning of the 20th century, with a very rich experience. There are three groups of taxpayers in the world. Group loss method, full consolidation method, and group income method. In your opinion, we suggest that we introduce a method of group damage. One of the provisions of this bill is, as I pointed out, first of all, this is the exemption between the members of a consolidated group from the transfer. from the application. appropriate reporting. It has to be noted that large taxpayers, because they are the ones who are going to create these consolidated groups of taxpayers, will have to provide very large amounts of tax analysis in a large number of controlled transactions, as opposed to small taxpayers. It should be noted that international practice testifies to the fact that the institution exists in almost all Western European countries, and it exists in the United States of Japan, New Zealand, Australia, Singapore, and so forth. It is clear that a consolidated group of taxpayers is aimed at creating an economically fair model of taxation that is kind of legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u38	The conglomerate of the consolidated group is a separate unit. It has to be noted that this bill is not a know-how in the Ukrainian tax system, because the consolidated payment of payers is already foreseen at the level of separate departments and legal entities. It should be noted that when a general tax base is defined, all members of a consolidated group will be held jointly accountable for all the appropriate assets. Thus, the interests of the budget toward the State will be preserved. That's all. And in connection. Vladimir Vasilovich, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u39	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u40	In this regard, the bill is discussed with the committee, as well as with government officials. We propose voting as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u41	The committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u42	I propose as a whole, and the committee's decision will be made by Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u43	Right. Please, the head of the Vitaly Juryovich Homutinnick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u44	Honourable Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, a bill submitted by the people's deputies of Dudenkov, Glazonov, Firemark foresees, in its essence, the establishment of a consolidated group in which it will be possible to make profits for one enterprise, if it is within a group, to deal with the losses of other enterprises. For this there is a list of criteria. The first criterion is to have a significant shareholding in equity. It should not be less than 70 percent in order for a member of the group to really be considered a member of a consolidated group. The second criterion, that the total amount of income tax paid by all members of the group, should be at least 4 billion dollars in the previous reporting period. And the total annual minimum income tax to be paid by the group members after the group's registration should be at least 2.5 billion dollars. Also, the total amount of proceeds from the realization of the goods and services of the aggregate group should be at least 5 billion dollars respectively. And the assets have to be at least 10 billion dollars. This experience of creating consolidated groups is an international practice. And in the drafting of this bill, committee members have studied this practice carefully. And they take the most working standards that are in Europe and in the world. The only comment that was accepted on the committee, and I'll give him a voice. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u45	Finish up. What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u46	I'm going to make a suggestion to change one point. And with this change in mind, we will recommend voting in general. Therefore, for the transcript, a bill was adopted in general with the proposal to change the figure of 4 billion by 500 million in sub-paragraphs 1 to 152 to 1.4 of article 152-1 of the Tax Code of Ukraine of Section I of Part Eight of the Bill. In order to get as many groups as possible under this bill. In our calculations, it's going to be about 10 financial and industrial groups that are going to fall under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Have a seat. We have an agreement, please prepare for the vote. Well, am I supposed to put the committee to a vote? Sit down, I'll give you a minute. Sit down, I'll give you a minute. Please, please. Sit down, I'll give it to you. One minute, Pinzenik. And I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich! The Impact faction proposes to rename this law and call it "For the Liberation of Ukrainian Oligarchs" from paying taxes to profit. A vote is made to amend the list of oligarchs to be extended. Dear colleagues, you have just voted to stop the increase in salaries for judges, how to stop in other areas. Now you're making a decision to exempt yourself from income tax. Look at the law. In this law, non-residents are included in a consolidated group, it's an offshore way, it's a way of taxing other countries. You've just been looking at a budget, a budget that has a 100 billion dollar hole. I can only say one thing. Surrender! Don't lead the country into disaster!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there is a point to be made in the National Deputies. That's why I'm not going to draw the conclusions of the committee: I'm going to take it as a whole, but I'm going to take it as a basis, so that the MPs can work with the committee. I'm betting on a draft Act (No. 2737) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Establishment of a Consolidated Group of Taxpayers. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:51:45]] For 234 Against 50, held - 0, not voted - 48. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 185, Fatherland, Vitaly Klicka Block, Freedom 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 18. The last draft of the law, and I'm going to continue to look at it for 15 minutes, is the bill on hunting and hunting (No. 2264a-d). How will we view it? Please vote. [[17:52:48]] For 171 Against 42, held - 0, unvoted - 102.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u50	Now. Decision taken. The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u51	It's all right in the daytime. How's that? Yes. It's written down. Well, they've been in the daytime all Sunday. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Victor Volodymyrovich Butkovsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] On Monday, Monday, I say again, we took a decision at the Conciliation Council. Butkovsky reports. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Today we're looking at Law 2264-1. This law lays down the basic principles of government regulation in the field of hunting, conservation and rational use of the State Hunting Fund, the order of relations between public authorities and local government, operators, social associations, and individuals engaged in hunting and hunting. In this. We've been looking at this bill on the committee on a number of occasions, it's been unanimously supported, it's all regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u53	I'm asking you to sit down. I will now give the floor to the chairman of the committee. I'll give the floor to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u54	What did you say? Listen. The rapporteur, who reported to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter by committee, was appointed by the People’s Deputy of Butkowski. Head of the Sekh Committee. What, what question do you have? What's that? The committee decided to report to Butkovsky. There's the committee manager's signature. Nate. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to. So you have to. We've been out all Sunday. So either you sit down, I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, or I put the bill to the vote now. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u55	Yeah. It's also the MPs who raise this question and the MPs have to be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u56	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me, listen to me! I will now give the floor to the chairman of the committee. We need to talk. Let's talk. Have a seat. You don't need it. People's deputies raised this law, made an offer. We have to go, we have to go to the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u58	Don't tell me what it is. Monday at the Conciliation Council. Well, I'm telling you. Well, what are you telling me? Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down. I'll give you a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u59	Sit down, I'll let you talk. I'll continue for 15 minutes. Deputies have the right to laws? They asked questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u60	We agreed not to block Sunday, but we blocked it. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, they prepared for the vote. You don't want to discuss it, then I'll put it to a vote. I'm betting on a bill of the Law (2264) (Deputy) on hunting and hunting – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Well, please. You don't want to. You don't want to hear it. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:58:14]] For 202 Against 8, held – 1, not voted – 92. The decision is not taken. A rejected project. It's a deal. Have a seat. Let's move on. I'm making an announcement. Is that all you've got? We're working on it. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, in accordance with article of the Rules and the application submitted, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Demedyuk Vasil Haritonović, as part of the Communist Party's parliamentary faction. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want us to consider tomorrow. At the Conciliation Council with the faction leaders, we agreed that tomorrow at 10 a.m., we should hear the information of Attorney General Pshonka Viktor Fedorovich. There is also an offer to consider the assignment of local elections at 150 locations. Consider the questions. I'm asking the faction leaders or factions to speak after tomorrow and we're adjourning today's meeting. Please, after tomorrow of the strike faction, who will it be? After tomorrow's discussion, no. Is there anyone here? People's deputy Qaeda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It was definitely agreed that tomorrow there should be Pshonka in the session hall, but let's not forget, let's not forget the Law of Ukraine on the Rules, about our Calendar Plan, there should be an "hour of questions to the government" tomorrow, and we want to see Prime Minister Azarov's session room with a "command" and let them tell us what agreements were signed in Moscow. We want to hear it and see them in the rostrum tomorrow. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u62	Dear, very distinguished deputy of Kyle! We have to do this Monday at 11 o'clock. You didn't make any invitations, no offers. Come to the Conciliation Council and we'll decide everything. Which one of the Communist factions? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u63	Respectable voters! I wish to take this opportunity to make the following statement on behalf of the faction. In view of the developments in Ukraine and the numerous appeals of citizens to the Central Committee of the Compatriots of Ukraine, the faction of Communists in the Supreme Council considers it necessary to state the following. We reaffirm our position on the analysis of the developments in the country and on the assessment of the Kabmin Compartium of Work. We believe that we must accept the demands of many citizens to postpone consideration by the Supreme Council of the Resolution of Distrust to the Government. We share the outrage of citizens by acts of vandalism, organized charges and members of the pro-fessist Freedom organization, including the MPs, as well as the cynical statements made by the people's deputies of the Fatherland leaders. We support the view that the Government's position on the non-signatories to the Association Agreement with the European Union and the conclusion of a promising, beneficial country and agreement with the Russian Federation on the deepening of the expansion of markets, the reduction in the price of gas to $268 per thousand cubic metres, the acquisition of the current 15 billion dollar loan, give reason not to consider the resignation of Kabmin. We cannot and will not vote with vandals, nationalists, neo-fascists, oligarchs working for the US and West, who are in power to establish a fascist regime in the country. And in that regard, we fully agree with our people. Moreover, according to available information, the leaders of the so-called opposition are planning a coup d'état on the Syrian scenario. Use the signatures of members of our faction to that end and announce their so-called Government of the Vandals and their accomplices outside the Supreme Council. We know about your plans, we won't let you implement the American plans, as it was in 2004. This would be a flagrant violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, a criminal coup d'état and inevitably lead to a renewed escalation of tensions and strong ways to resolve the conflict between the oligarchic groups fighting for the presidency and, in general, for power in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u65	Given that the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine unanimously decided to withdraw the signatures of its members and requested the Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to delete their respective documents, we would like to stress once again that this decision is due to the critical nature of the situation, the explosive nature of its development, the sudden and cynical pressures of American and European politicians. We look forward to understanding and supporting our position as citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Allow me from the faction of the Party of Regions to thank everyone for their fruitful work and to congratulate everyone on the holiday of Santa Claus. Happiness and well - being.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-12-19-m0.u68	I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed.
