ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:46]] A total of 366 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, statements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. The Fatherland faction, the Briginian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u2	National Deputy Brigine, Obolonian constituency. Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Soboljev. Turn the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I would like to address, in my opinion, a very serious subject with which we now have a problem of tens of thousands of businesses in Ukraine. What does this have to do with anything? At present, the business activity of a number of enterprises, both small and medium - size and large businesses, is virtually stopped because it is impossible to register tax returns in a single register in the new Ministry of Income and Congregations. What does that mean? This means that a number of businesses in various fields of activity are effectively blocked because they are not actually able to carry out their business activity today. What is this novel created by the Ministry of Income and Congregations? Now, in order for the actual enterprise to continue to claim taxes at the proper time, timely tax compensation from the state budget, these enterprises have to register, as this in principle has always been, in the single registration fee act. But strangely today, the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations refuses to register. On what grounds? As a matter of fact, all businesses are told that due to a change in legal address, we cannot register, and thus you do not have the right to conduct business. Well, it doesn't happen in the state that thousands of businesses suddenly changed their legal address. Moreover, there are now dozens of court decisions that have confirmed that no changes in the legal address of enterprises have been made, that this is actually an obstacle to the business’s activities so that they are not able to carry out a completely normal business activity, to pay the value added tax, and to pay other taxes. The state of affairs is now effectively blocked by the activities of entire sectors of the economy in view of the fact that the Ministry of Income and Congregations has thus decided that taxes may not be refunded at added cost and that direct duties may not be fulfilled. That is why our faction claims that the Ministry of Income and Assembly has actually stopped the business activity and we demand an immediate report from the minister and information on why it is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u5	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, please pass the word to Oleg Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u7	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, on this day in 1991, the Ukrainian State Flag Order was adopted in this Hall, and the status of the State Flag was officially approved. Let's start this day, let's say hello to each other and to those deputies who have adopted this downright decree. [[Applause]] But now I have to talk about something else. About what is now happening to the state budget of Ukraine. On September 3rd, on this rostrum, the President of Ukraine sent a message to us, to all the Ukrainians, and we listened with great care and power. In this decree, he spoke, including that he had the government make urgent changes to the government's government budget, which had been allowed to increase social benefits, social standards. And what do we see? It's been two weeks, no change to the state budget of Ukraine, which the President has been talking about, we don't have. In general, the state budget, which President Janukovic has repeatedly entrusted to this government to change, has not been changed to increase social standards. In fact, the system of local self-government is now paralyzed by the fact that the State Treasury does not properly pay for local self-government, local communities. Billions of dollars depended on treasury accounts because the government stole money from local communities. A huge debt on payments to people who are unemployed. It's a huge hospital debt. How can that be? A person comes out of a hospital where he can stay for two months, and he can't get what he's got under the law. This is because the government is not able to tell itself that there have been problems, going to the Supreme Council, making a government budget sequestration, reducing government budget spending, and making it a fair budgetary system in this country. We urge the government to make changes to Ukraine's state budget to the Supreme Council so that we can consider these budget proposals so that, according to the calendar plan, we can consider the 2014 State Budget, which the government has introduced and is sent back to it in a matter of hours. Because you can't go on living like this. In the country, there is a budgetary crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u9	Thank you. The faction of the Party of Regions, the National Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u10	Thank you. Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich, great colleagues! The integration of Ukraine into the European political, economic and legal space with a view to the future acquisition of membership in the European Union in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy remains a strategic task for our country. And during this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is every reason to look forward to the most important stage of this long process: the signing of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine during the summit in Vilnius, which will facilitate the entry of our state into the free trade zone with the EU and will open the way for us to visa liberalisation and, in the future, to the visa-free travel of our citizens to European countries. At the level of the President and the government, there is the political will to implement the agreements reached between Ukraine and the EU at the February summit. In this direction, all branches of our country's authority work in close interaction with the EU, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. And the task is to ensure that the modernization program of the country that we started to implement would bring together the political forces around us, and we would move Ukraine step by step to a cohort of highly developed countries with high standards of living. Only a few steps remain that depend entirely on the productivity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as we have recently demonstrated progress in fulfilling our commitments to the Council of Europe during its accession to this organization in 1995, when, after a long break over the past two years, we finally adopted a new Criminal Procedure Code, new laws on lawyers and legal activity, on the integration of citizens, we developed an effective mechanism for the implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, etc. And at this point, there is a 1995 commitment -- only the new Prosecutor's Office Act remains. As well as the fulfilment of the basic conditions that have not yet been met but are necessary for the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU, it is necessary to find compromise between the various political forces in Parliament. In doing so, it is necessary to maintain and continue to deepen relations with Russia and all our neighbours, with the countries of the Eurasian Society, with world leaders and new economic development centres. The level of political statements not only shows the determination of the authorities to carry out the tasks ahead of the signing of the agreement, but more and more recently there has been assurances of readiness and opposition to take concrete steps towards consolidating efforts in this direction. The Party of Regions welcomes these statements and calls on all the political forces in Parliament to make fruitful cooperation and a real step towards this consolidation in a state of government approval today of the draft EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. And it takes not so much Parliament and government as Ukraine and our multiethnic Ukrainian people, who deserve better living conditions and a secure and happy future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u11	Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u12	Yury Bublik All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Poltavščina. Dear Head, honourable deputies! I want to focus your attention on the problem of shutting down preschools, schools. From the areas of Ukraine, like the fronts of the war, reports of closures by packs, dozens of schools and preschools, Johno-Frankish, Volin, Kharkishte, Poltavščina and so on. The size of the closure has grown large, and for today, four bills have been registered to impose a moratorium on the closure of preschool and school institutions. One thing is, in a remote village, two or three students learn both the territorial community on the ground and find a common language with their community, and with power. And when they're offering to give the kids a lift, that's one question, but scary optimism got to the district centers. We have in Poltava, in the village of Red Road, a primary school where full classes were closed, and potentially preschool children are filling classes in the following year, year and so on. Most cynically, this was done by our Poltava authorities in charge of our urban head, Alexander Mamay. At a time when parents, at their own expense for the past 10 years, have held up schools and prepared schools for the new school year, in July the marauder robbers, at the direction of the city's head, robbed the school, ripped off circuit breakers, roses, chandeliers, took the decorative panels off the walls. Of course, the territorial community has not been silent until today, unfortunately, on the 18th calendar, and the children still don't attend primary school in Poltavian. So I would like to ask the distinguished benefactors of the Party of the Regions to somehow try to influence their Greek chosen, Poltava city head Alexander Mamay. So he can finally find a dialogue, a constructive dialogue with the territorial community, so that he can finally go meet the territorial community, and resume the work of the elementary school. Because the kids are still at home, the kids are far away from going to school, and the school bus that the authorities gave, they're stuck with parental support starting with fuel oil and finishing with spare parts. So today, many requests are made for these bills to vote and impose moratoriums on the closure of schools and preschool institutions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u13	Thank you. May I have the floor of the people's representative of Martinjak, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u14	Sergei Martinjak, 20 constituency. Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u15	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u16	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We hope that this week a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act will come before Parliament. And the way we're going to accept it will depend on whether or not this document will again become a debt receipt to the Ukrainian people, by which another time the state will forgive all the debts to the Ukrainian people. In past elections, there was no political power that promised to pay off social debt, but the elections were over, and the promises remained. What do we have now? The state seems to have forgotten about the children of war, the Chernobyls, the heroin mothers. After the children of war, payments have been suspended since 2011. The total amount of debts owed to the Chernobyl court decisions for today amounts to one and a half billion dollars. In only four regions of the 23th Voter District in Volina, debt accounts for more than 95 million dollars, whereas the government has not made monetary indexation in this category since 1996. Today, Chernobyl payers receive two bracelets in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, who have been elected in the districts, know what these payments are called. The people in the districts call them "burial" is 2 bracelets of grave funds. And what cynicism must manifest, which cynicism the government must go down to today to initiate the local authorities to cancel the first, second and third Chernobyl zones, where 90 percent of people live, who suffer from the Chernobyl accident. Heroin mothers are in general faced with a frenzy of bureaucracy, even at the stage of assigning this honorary title, not to mention mandatory one-time payments. The state now owed heroin mothers 385,000 million dollars. I'd like to look at a minister who came to give a certificate to a heroin mother, and the kids told her she died 96 years ago, 96 years old. She gave birth to 14 children and didn't get a name for just one reason -- not to pay 10,000 dollars. I can give a lot of examples and figures. They all testify to one thing: the principle of social policy failure in Ukraine. We have the left side of the social pay goes to those who are far from poor. So, dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the State Budget project, I would like to stress that the issue of paying off the state's debts to these categories of citizens should be given priority. We don't have to run those debts under the carpet again. The artificial limitation of payments, the failure to execute court decisions, is the launch of a social explosion mechanism that may be unforeseeable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u17	Thank you. The national deputy of Labunska is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished listeners! I want to address the entire Parliament, especially the MPs who have been elected to major districts. No matter what political power they represent, where the factions are, I want to ask you. Come on, you've been chosen. Let's see, all the speakers today have raised all the very painful questions that are in the country today. Well, tell me, please, what difference does it make what political party we're in today? Look what's happening in the districts today, see what's starting today. There's a new heating season, see what's going on in schools. Please tell me, are we going to charge and file criminal cases against teachers? When today, I don't know, I think in every district, I have teachers and school principals today collecting money from my parents to start a heated season, which is not the money today at all to start a school year! Tell me, please, do you all know very well what we're talking about, what budget for next year? We don't have a budget today. Please tell me all the budget organizations today. In the last quarter, there is not enough money to make payments under the protected budget. Let's see what's going on in the district of hospitals. Please tell me we're talking about roads, excises. I think that even if someone is in their districts, that today's road and distance is very different things in our country. What do we say about medical reform? How do we have the moral right to vote today and to shut down doctors and FAP? If there's any, if you'll excuse me, norms, norms, when do we have to get there quickly, and how fast can we get there when there's no roads? So, maybe we should do other things today? Look what the Treasury is doing. What kind of development budget are we talking about? That everyone today knows that utilities, unfortunately, are not protected by the budget today. I don't know how you guys are in the county, and I'm in the county today, unfortunately, for June the salary goes. So what are we talking about, what kind of budget? I don't know how my colleagues will vote for a cat in a bag again. If we're going to have these budgets for 2014, we're going to have to run the whole Supreme Council. No MP has the moral right to go to his constituents and look them in the eye, what we do here, what budgets we receive, and how everyone will be raped again. I just encourage all my colleagues to do something with the budget redistribution for this year and to adopt the 2014 budget with completely different indicators. And to remind us that humans did not choose us to.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Party of regions, National Deputy Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u20	Ponomarov, Party of Regions, Donetsk. Please pass the word to Balitski Evgen Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u21	People's Deputy Balitsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u22	Dear President, distinguished deputies, are invited! [[B in m in s a l in]] This year, since August, at the initiative of the Party of the Regions, the Memorial of the “Pride of the Great Victory” begins. With the release of the city of Harikov, the first capital of Ukraine, the release of the whole of Ukraine from the German scoundrel begins. When a number of decrees were adopted yesterday at the initiative of the Party of the Regions aimed at worshiping on a public scale a number of cities released 70 years ago, such as Nicole, Ordzhonikidze, also forcing Dnepra. The 70th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Melitopol, which cut the artery leading to Crimea, is particularly important. German troops were forced to leave Crimea, Soviet troops were given strategic airfields that allowed them to bomb Plöesti, a place of birth in Romania, which hurt the German economy. Our troops, freeing Melitopol, broke into a powerful engineering fortification called "Watan", a line that the Germans called impregnable, second Stalingrad on Dnepre. The city was strategically important and the decision of the Party of the Regions on 3 July enabled a number of reconstructions at the State level. With our reconstructions, we remind the world of what has been happening on our earth. About how the city was liberated. The third of the Soviet Union's heroes, i.e. 87 Soviet Union heroes, received soldiers and officers from the Soviet army, an army where Russian and Ukrainians fought with their shoulders, Belarusians, Tajiks, Chalmaks, Jews, all the nationalities that are today. including those who live in the territory of our country today. With our memory, we remind everyone that we remember the creation of a Soviet soldier and that we will remember them, and we will forever carry them into our hearts and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u23	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, National Deputy Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u24	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Central Electoral Commission's decision of September 17, 2013, which it refused to register to the citizens' assembly in the initiative group to hold the U.S. referendum, is an absolutely ordered decision. And its customer is the oligarchy regime and so-called opposition, which is a loyal ally of this regime in terms of robbing the country and usurping power. The refusal of the CLTC to register the initiative group has deprived people of their lives and is of little importance in supporting them. whether they support the introduction to the Customs Union or to the European Union, their constitutional right to come freely to the polling stations and express their will for Ukraine's future. From the very beginning, as soon as the Company announced the need for an all-U.S. referendum, the authorities and the opposition worked together, using dirty information technology, pocket court, administrative issues, to prevent this referendum. Why? Because I knew that most people do not understand the euro of values that undermine the spiritual principles of Ukrainian society and that they do not want the fate of jobs in European soil. Ukraine claims not to refuse, does not refuse to hold an all-U.S. referendum on the choice between the Customs and the European Union. What we do is we do all the available legal mechanisms, all our organizational resources, and human resources, and human resources. We are convinced that if an association agreement is signed with the EU without a national mandate that can only be obtained through a referendum, such an agreement should be regarded as a national betrayal. And let Europe finally see how Ukrainian Euro-Integrators begin their European so-called movement by gross violation of citizens' rights to express their opinion. And let Europe think carefully about who is going to sign the so-called association agreement. We say, yes, a referendum, no, a national betrayal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u25	The Fatherland faction, Mikola Tomenko's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I want to share the discovery I've been thinking about for two years. He tried to find out what the formula for improving the lives of Ukrainian citizens was. In the first phase, I came to the conclusion that life is improving only among members of the so - called family. In the second stage, I added improvements to the lives of businessmen from the Party of Regions. On the third, officials close to Yanukovic. It doesn't work either, because there are real citizens whose lives are getting better. And I figured out what this formula is all about. Our oligarchs buy football players in Brazil or Serbia, hockey players in Russia, pay millions of dollars or tens for them, and then make them citizens of Ukraine. I think why does the Presidential Administration issue passports to these Ukrainian citizens so quickly? Not because no one takes them to play for their congregation. And because they're implementing the President's task of improving Ukrainian citizens right now. But, seriously, my friends, in the budgetary process, the government put Parliament outside the law. We're not told how the budget is being prepared, we're not told at all what's going on with the budget. I've heard from people in regional language that we have the most exciting government in the world. She's always doing what she's doing with the money. And not only does it keep taking up money, it's already forcing local authorities to take loans. You know that since October 1, most local councils have taken loans to pay off their salaries since October 1. Pay teachers and doctors because there's nothing to pay for. In Chercas, I was approached by the City Council, and they're stopping the scheduled operations from October 1st, because they've made life so much better that there's nothing to do with the operation. Instead, the government did not give any warning about spending or rubbing. Thus, Governor Sergio Tulub’s Cerkas district administration began repairing the floor where the governor lives or works. He says, "What's 17 million?" People are poor, they can't work in the Church district administration. I have a proposal for governors, ministers, if you want to repair your apartments from the budget, go up, see the parents who fixed your schools before your school year, preschools and cultural buildings, collect your money and repair your money, and don't abuse people. That's why we demand, Vladimir Vasilovich, that we don't hear what the budget is going to be in 2014, and we hear how the budget is going to be executed when the treasury debts are paid, when local authorities have money to pay teachers, educators when people realize that before winter the country is preparing for a difficult period, because it is time to stop improving the lives of governors, ministers and footballers, it is necessary to improve the lives of ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u27	Freedom Union, National MP of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u28	Please give it to Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u29	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head! Mr. Deputies! Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Recently, on Monday, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Arbuzov assembled an interdepartmental anti-rider commission to report in the future on what sort of raids companies are in Ukraine. But as head of the committee for the fight against organized crime and corruption, or every day, I send such appeals to the same Arbusov, to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to the Attorney General. Some notes and nothing else. I would now like to draw the attention of Mr. Arbosov and the Attorney General of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is now in the Plains region, particularly the Smigatorf State Enterprise. Six months ago, the State Enterprise Smigatorf was a profitable enterprise that had over 3 million dollars in it. Now it's kind of a raiding business. Employees have been on strike for the second week, no response from ministries, no government. Workers demand that they have and keep their jobs so that they can work and supply briquettes to schools, hospitals, clinics, kindergartens. And now there's no reaction to that fact. Workers are also required by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to direct the state-owned enterprise to the Ministry of Coal Fuel and Energy. It is also required that the Attorney General’s Office deal with the loss of tens of thousands, hundreds of tons of briquettes, and no one before that. They change to a business manager who has no share in the business. And we demand that the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, react and save room for the workers, because this is the kind of legacy that is currently taking place in Ukraine, not only with Smigatorf, but with other businesses. I can also name a number of companies by equality. Clearly, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President, has the right to react.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time for speeches is up. I would like to inform you that today there is a National Deputy of Ukraine, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Is it? No, he's in the hospital. Wasadze Tariel Shaković? None. The fallen man is on vacation, absent. On September 18, Ukraine’s national deputies were not on board. The list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today is open to the deputies. So let's move on to their consideration and consider ratification issues. The Law, the draft Law (Registration No. 0032), on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets, is being introduced. The First Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Romanov Mikola Ivanovich, should report. The minister is on his way out, negotiating abroad. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Mikola Ivanovich Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u31	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. On July 5, 2011, the convention was signed by the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the Council of Europe, Mikola Tochitsky, on the basis of an order from the President of Ukraine. The European Convention for the Protection of Domestic Animals has been developed within the framework of the Council of Europe to ensure the protection and humane treatment of domestic animals. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruelty, measures are being taken to implement state policy in this area. Legislation has been developed and approved, which has been adopted in accordance with the provisions of the relevant law. First. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the rules for the transport of animals. A program to build animal shelters in Ukraine has been initiated, including by the State and local environmental funds. A centre for the rehabilitation of bears has been established on the basis of the National Natural Park "Sineveir" and a memorandum of cooperation has been signed in this area with the international charitable organization. With the validity of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets, modern legal standards in the field of animal protection will be introduced. The convention’s principles of maintaining animals take into account modern trends, and the main aim is to ensure normal conditions for animals. The adoption of the bill will bring national legislation closer to the legislation of the member states of the Council of Europe and demonstrate our State's willingness to adhere to European standards for the purpose of protecting and ensuring universal standards for the treatment of animals. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u32	The question is to the reporter? None. Any questions? Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u33	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavska District, Poltava City. I don't have as many questions as a reference in the context of this subject as we are considering to our Poltava voters. Then yesterday, I learned that in the background of the problems that are in my district today, namely, three times the salary increase. There are national MPs who choose from Poltavščina, and instead of defending the position of ordinary citizens of Poltavščina and, in particular, Poltava, in solving their communal problems, they make bills that are like increasing a fine for dogs that are out-of-house dogs leaving their excrements in their backyards. So I would like to ask the MPs from the Party of Regions to finally start in their majority districts dealing with the issue of their electorate. To stop the genocide of Azarov, which has been going on for more than five years, and then to deal with all the other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u34	Why are you just talking to the Party of Regions? All deputies, please contact. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. This question does not apply fully to me, but I will answer it. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of affairs for today has been organized and 44 shelters for domestic animals are being built, and eight more shelters for domestic animals are being built for today. And five draft laws have been registered to date, including increasing the administrative responsibility for illegal treatment of animals by national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u36	I see MPs asking questions. Please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to speak to a representative of the Ministry and the government in general. Ukraine is facing a catastrophic situation in dealing with homeless animals. They are cruelly destroyed, digested, killed, and neither by the Ministry nor by the government. I get a lot of references from environmentalists who talk about the horrors that occur with homeless animals, I'm sending these calls to the Ministry of the Environment, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the government, and I get a write-off. Stop poisoning, bullying homeless animals, because next time I'm going to bring you the poison that you're going to poison homeless animals with so you can feel the torments like those miserable, defenseless animals. Stop poisoning, stop killing, stop bullying! I demand of you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u38	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u39	Listen to the questions, answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any evidence of animal cruelty, I think we need to give these facts, we have a state environmental inspection, we have a law, and we will definitely take action on this issue. By accepting this convention, we will further strengthen our efforts to protect animals from cruel behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u41	The Fatherland faction, national deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It was much more important for us today to discuss the issue of protecting a Ukrainian person from Ukrainian authority. But that's also important, and that's why I'm giving my word to my neighbor, the head of the European Party, who understands this, Mikoli Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party, Fatherland faction. Dear First Deputy Minister! I have three questions for you. The first question that our colleague raised in part about the practice of destroying homeless animals. It is, especially before the euro-2012, it has gained a frenzy of such a turnaround. The second question. What do you know about dog fights that are conducted illegally in some way? And what do you know about training dogs to hunt bears? All these questions were asked by the four paws and SOS international organization. You know that, the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. We work very closely with the international organization SOS, Four Paws. She's been working with us for the Euro-2012 training and she's working now. And the facts that have been revealed by this international organization have been handed over to us as part of what was unlawfully digesting a bear in one of the private zoos. This issue was resolved, and the animal was transferred to the park created by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. He's in there right now. So this is a matter that we have to settle according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u45	Yatzenka, the Party of Regions is the last question. And time will be run out.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, indeed, a very important problem. And in principle, in all civilized countries, animal treatment is one of the indicators of social development. In our country, unfortunately, we do have wild phenomena, such as dog fights. So I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Vasilovich, and you, and Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemyakin's profile committee, to include and consider the draft law that I have passed, to increase the responsibility for cruel treatment of animals and for carrying out dog fights. I think it's in unison of this convention, which I'm sure we're going to ratify with the whole hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. In my speech, I focused on the fact that the bill is registered, and we support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u48	The Freedom Union, the Peace People's Deputy, has been missed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Oleg Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u50	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u51	Oleg Pankevitch, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear reporter, of course, our faction will support this bill, I think, like most of the factions of the Supreme Council. But we do have questions that relate to the observations of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In fact, the main observation is that there are some differences between the convention and the legislation of Ukraine. Are you aware of these differences, or will this situation be rectified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. There are three observations of scientific and expert management, but that's not against our legislation, so the adoption of the convention will be governed by a convention for the protection of animals against cruel behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u53	Thank you, sit down. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemiru, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Aristotle defined man as a political animal. Moreover, this definition has something to do with politicians and, in particular, with national MPs. Today, as political animals, we have a chance to do something good to protect pets. The Convention for the Protection of Pets was developed in 1987. Ukraine signed this convention in July 2011. This is a document that has something to do with the Council of Europe. 22 countries, members of the Council of Europe, have already signed and ratified this convention. Among these 22 countries, 18 countries belong to the European Union. In addition to Ukraine, which I hope will also ratify this convention today, in the Eastern Partnership countries it has ratified the situation for today only in Azerbaijan. The ratification of this convention will allow for the introduction of legal standards in the field of protection of countries from cruel conduct. There have been questions that have been raised, such as the regulation of the excessive number of homeless animals, and this has been done in an appropriate humane manner. This is governed by the principles set forth in the convention. The High Council Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on September 4, a draft law and decided to bring it up to date with a recommendation for adoption as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u55	Any questions for Gregory Mikhailovich? There's a question, write it down, please sign it. I beg of you, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u56	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I thank both the committee and the initiators of this ratification for asking a very important question. Because you remember, indeed, the scandals that accompanied the brutal treatment of animals that accompanied the Euro-2012. And despite that great publicity, we still have examples in Kiev today, where housing and utilities continue to digest, unfortunately, animals and continue to use such Nazi methods to our smaller brothers, as it were. And unfortunately. Not only do homeless animals suffer from this but also domestic animals that are on the farm. So this is the right absolute solution, the strike faction will support Ukraine's movement in this European direction with regard to animal treatment in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u57	Thank you, dear colleague Rosenko, indeed, you have drawn attention to one of the problem sectors regulated by this convention, such as article 12 of the convention. I want to quote it as "Additional measures in relation to homeless animals," where it is noted that the party is taking appropriate legislative or administrative measures that are necessary to regulate the number of homeless animals that do not cause pain, suffering or depression that can be avoided. And measures, in particular paragraph 1 of this article, indicate that these measures should meet the requirements and, if necessary, should be carried out with minimal physical and mental suffering. I think it's not just a question of humane treatment of pets, it's also a question of morals, raising an atmosphere of society that shouldn't have elements of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u58	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u59	Please give the word of Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, who is proud of the Trinity.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u60	Please, an MP from the Trinity of Jaborowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Gregory! I imagine today, after the ratification of this Convention, that all Ukrainian dogs all over Ukraine -- slaves, sorghums and so on -- will feel that they are treated quite differently. I am leading this to the fact that, of course, this convention, none of our peasants, who are holding one or two dogs on the chain, of course, will study this convention and tomorrow will stop treating them differently. I'd love to, having one. If you have the opportunity to answer, name at least the most important things that are set up today in the Convention. It's also that only a professional animal doctor has the right to put a dog to sleep, that he can't trim his tail, that he can't, let's say, fight dog fights there, that kind of thing. If possible, count the number so that people can hear how to treat their dogs.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u62	Dear colleague Yavorowski, the question is quite right, because it is the adoption of the Convention as a framework document that does not guarantee that appropriate implementation without the adoption and enforcement of appropriate legislative or administrative acts will benefit where necessary. You've been paying attention to two things. The first thing that's going on is the question of putting pets to sleep, especially when you're talking about dogs. There's an article here that says that. And, indeed, it must be carried out by a veterinarian or a specially authorized person. In particular, there are ways that the convention’s authors believe are in line with the principles of humane conduct. And the second thing you've been paying attention to. These are surgical operations that are performed in order for a household to have an animal that he thinks is consistent with its taste or absence. And really, it's a ban on buying ears, taking out voices, removing teeth and claws. It's also about buying tails. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat. Thank you. The pro-national deputies sign up for the factions. I'd like to invite you to the address of People's Deputies of Averchenk, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u64	Sergey Averchenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear colleagues! The classic once said that an honest man should be ashamed even in front of an animal. Therefore, it is our responsibility to establish, implement, humane standards of animal treatment. The European convention, which was now under discussion, took effect in 1992 and was signed by 22 States of the Council of Europe. Ukraine joined in July 2011. All we have to do is ratify this convention. And I want to point out that ratification doesn't need to be changed to actual legislation. This is another step towards European integration. The strike faction will support ratification. And I'm asking all the national MPs to vote in favour, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u65	Party of regions, Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! I hear when the discussion started, among some colleagues there's some misunderstanding or skepticism about how much you can talk about such a non-serious question, I even hear things like that, when it comes to dealing with animals, that's not the main thing, that's third-rate, that you can move it somewhere, and so on. Well, in this regard, allow me to have a little nostalgia. When I was in school, I remember being, like, a little cult walk to a movie where our class was watching the movie "White Beem Black Ear." I remember the reaction of my classmates when all the girls were crying and the boys were just holding back the tears. This tells us that despite all the features of today’s era, the cruel era, and other things that our people have left that allow them to be called human beings, human beings. And in this context, I'd like to quote a little bit, but I like it very much, it belongs to a well-known public figure in the United States, one of the U.S. independence fighters and anti-racial discrimination is Benjamin Rush. He said, "I am so convinced of the close connection between the morality of man and the humane treatment of animals that I will always bow to the legislation that first creates a system of laws that protects animals from stupid and harsh behavior." I think the very aspect of how we treat those who can't protect themselves is that animals are litmus papers of civilization, of human humanity, of what is human. Therefore, all the measures proposed in this case are proposed by the President of Ukraine regarding the humanisation of Ukrainian legislation through the ratification of the Convention on the Normal, Civilised Treatment of Animals, regardless of who is in the faction. And what's proposed in this agreement, and that's not something that's meant to be said here, very specific things that don't allow you to basically rip your teeth out into dogs that don't allow you to do surgical surgery in order to make the dog more comfortable with the host, that's humanistic stuff. And last but not least, to be so pompous, I'm going to give you another quote from Mark Twain, she's humorous, but this humor is fair: "They accept in paradise, not for merit, but for protection. Otherwise you'd stay behind the threshold of paradise, and you'd let your dog in." That's what Mark Twain said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u67	Freedom, National MP of the Yanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Oleg Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u69	Please hand it over to Oleg Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, our faction supports the ratification of this convention. Of course, this is also a step toward our European rapprochement. But what I want to point out is that ratification required some kind of change to actual legislation. And unfortunately, the executive branch of the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant ministries did not, along with this bill, submit appropriate amendments to the Supreme Council to the current legislation, as provided for in article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. In fact, we should also accept changes to legislation today. If we don't, there might be a situation that, unfortunately, this convention could be, well, just a declaration in some of its positions and not be carried out, on the one hand. On the other hand, the absence of appropriate legislative changes and the presence of norms in the convention may cause problems for Ukrainian citizens. And so once again, I'm calling attention to the executive power, to the compliance of Ukrainian legislation, to the fact that it's not just necessary to adopt conventions that can be empty, but it's necessary for legislation to be implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u71	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Kupreyczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u73	We convey the word of Volodymyr Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, everyone knows that the moral state of society is determined by how it treats younger brothers — animals. And in this case, well, it's interesting to know how the Head of the Ukrainian State first does this golden rule. Because journalists, for example, have long been unable to get to Medjugorje and see the condition of the local kangaroo, which has been described repeatedly. But if you're serious. So we can conclude from the way that animals are treated in today's government by the example of the Euro-2012. Anyone who wants to go to YouTube can get a bloody Euro and look at the facts that happened in preparation for the football championship. Actually, I can name the President's subordinates who did it in Kiev and in Kharkiv. The city of Kiev: the mass destruction of animals The city of Kharkiv: the mass destruction of animals. Little has happened in Kharkiv that, despite the adoption in 2006 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law, which prohibits the cruel treatment of animals and criminalizes them, and the control of homeless animals is possible only through sterilization, the animal sterilization program has been done in Kharkiv, beautifully written, and as a result, they have simply been destroyed by animal sterilization in mobile limb cells. And they wrote that they were sterilized and released. These are, unfortunately, many examples throughout Ukraine. And I think, first of all, Ukrainians need to start with themselves. And I know that most Ukrainians, most Ukrainians, treat animals as they do and as they say in famous terms. I ask one thing: let's support this ratification. But it's very important not only to support ratification, but also to do it, because it's the enforcement of laws, which is what Ukraine is now different from the civilized world, because the laws are not being enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u75	From the factions all came forth. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech. Please, the Fatherland faction, the Zabzaluk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u76	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u77	Please, the national deputy of Yavorowski is invited to speak. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u78	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, in 1989, in the rank of the National MP of the Soviet Union, I first went abroad, well, I was released abroad. And it happened that he flew to America and was there somewhere, I think, for two weeks, he went around virtually all Ukrainian communities, America almost everything. And when I got home, my wife asked me, "Well, tell me in one, in two words, what's most impressed you?".. And I honestly said, "I didn't see any bad faces in America." I just got on our plane, saw our flight attendants, and I realized that I was coming home, and that I was in our usual Soviet environment. Because I said this to someone that this bill might seem really funny to someone, because when we think about human rights in Ukraine today and what it takes to take power today to protect every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian, to discuss the problem of protection of rights, so I would call them, dogs today really might look a little strange, at least for our audience and for our current Ukrainian situation. Because of this attitude, of course, to animals is the level of humanity of society, the level of goodness of society, if you want. That's why I would very much like to use this time to really bring to many of our people who might be listening to us today that it's not just ratification of themselves, you know, mechanical, and this is the level of humanity of human beings, of society as a whole to one animal or another. This is where Lord Ariev, my colleague, said about the President’s kangaroo, evidently the same thing to ask, and from what were the President’s shoes that he had worn for the first time in America and found that it was not acceptable to wear, say, such expensive things. That's why I really want our people to know, it's really slow even to implement this convention that we are today, I believe, ratifying, even slowly implementing it, is actually the humanisation of Ukrainian society. And what he's talking about here, calling the main posturings of this convention, is that even putting a dog to sleep today can only be a professional veterinarian in specially equipped things there and so forth. And this is something that you can't abuse yourself, let's say, by cutting off her ears, her tails, and so on, it's very important to our society. And I'm convinced that humanization through the animal world of man is very useful and necessary. Fatherland will support the ratification of this charter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u79	Faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Chechetov. Please, National Deputy Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u80	I listened so carefully to the writer, but I still can't understand what a poor calf, whose skin he wears shoes from, is worse than, say, an ostrich that other people wear shoes from sometimes. I think all the animals are the same, and let's walk in rubber boots, and that's also going to be the way out of the situation. It is good that dogs, or calves, or ostriches, or other animals do not vote. For if they were to vote, I imagine that the representatives of the opposition would speak here, accusing power of all mortal sins. You see, this authority is not the best in Ukraine, but it is this authority that deals with such an important issue of humane treatment of animals. We, not you, when in power, will ratify this convention. Yeah, maybe we're not dressed like you sometimes, fancy, yeah, maybe sometimes we don't know how to quote classics so well, yeah, maybe sometimes we don't take advantage of choosing animals who don't vote and who aren't guilty of our political bickering. But we're doing a lot, and we're going to do a lot of voting today, and we're going to confirm that Ukraine is going to Europe civilized, with a high human culture, with high humanism. Yeah, it's us, not you bringing Ukraine to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u81	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Sergei Sass, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u83	Please, Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u84	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. I would like to comment on the proposal for a vote at the convention, to draw attention to what my colleague Zarubinsky has said, what the unkind owners of animals use today to create some comfortable conditions when they keep them. What the tails buy, the ears buy, we understand, the exterior, the terrier there, and that's when they do special surgery to keep the dog from barking, or removing teeth, claws. You know all these things, they're the same thing as torture. We are thinking a lot about how to make our population more good, tolerant of one another, and how to treat animals from childhood, when an animal appears in the family, means that we can start this dialogue about kindness, about life, and about other things. I'm sure this convention should be adopted. And once again, what I wanted to say was that this convention took more than 10 years for all of our volunteers who work in shelters, who for their own expense do euthanizations, and they do all the necessary procedures for reducing homeless animals, those who feed, those who treat them, and these are a large number of people. And now I'd like to go to all the politicians. I think that now this information will put you in every program, in every political party, in order to have a separate point related to what policy will be applied to animals, including homeless animals. Each other Ukrainian family has an animal, and believe me, they are family members regardless of what the animal is. And it's the demonstration of politicians in the direction of humanization, not only to humans, but also to animals, that politicians have to demonstrate. The Fatherland faction will certainly support this convention. And we are confident that the constitutional majority will vote for it. Thank you, volunteers and the international organizations SOS and Four Paws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u85	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Irina Heratschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, it's probably a good thing that we're discussing this subject on a full-time basis, because it's a good reason to talk to our voters through the "Rad" channel, through radio broadcasts on important humanitarian topics. Indeed, our society today is aggressive. And this aggression is growing towards each other, very often it really is shown by people in terms of animals and home and, above all, to homeless people. And today much has been said about the responsibility of the local authorities. This is where the representatives of the Party of Regions spoke about the signing of this convention under your rule. You know, the opposition will give votes to ratify this convention. But it would be very important for all of us together to draw the attention of the local authorities to what is being allocated, such as money to keep these free. Homeless animals, but they are cruelly looted. We see in every city and town running a bunch of dogs with chips, like they're operational, but they're waiting for the fetus. We realize that this money is stolen, that no one has operated on it, that no one cares about it. And it seems to me that our next step in Europe is not only to draw attention to the humane treatment of animals, but also to increase the responsibility of the local authorities for the theft of those funds that are meant to be aimed at sustaining animals. Well, and certainly we want to turn from perhaps not only the opposition, from our political power, but also from the entire parliament to the citizens of Ukraine with such a request that, indeed, if we go to Europe today, if we have such a consensus on Euro-integration, we should start with internal reforms: the attitude towards neighbor, to mention to Saint-Eccupery that we are responsible for those we employ. And it's obvious that our faction will vote in favour of ratifying this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u87	Vitalia Klitschka, National Deputy of Tkaukuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u88	Please pass the microphone to Alexander Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u89	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to tell you that the strike faction will support the "On Ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Pets" in its entirety. I would also like to stop at specific things. For example, I made a parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the cruel treatment of animals, and I received the following answer: to implement the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea decree on non-admissible cruel treatment of animals and birds in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Also, the decision of the Yaltine City Council to ban the use of animals for entrepreneurial activities. We all know, see, and realize that animals are also used in business today, using them for photography, and making money on it. Also, if you give an example, the first resort season of 2013 in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is composed of 30 administrative protocols under article 88 — violations of the order of purchase or disposal of animal and plant products, the right to keep animals in captivity and in semi-arid conditions, violations of the rules on quarantine and other animal health requirements, violations of the order of business or economic activity. And what's interesting is what I got was 47 animals and birds were removed during the raids, including four ponies, 12 shingles, 14 pigeons, 4 owls, 2 apes, 3 falcons, 4 parrots, crocodiles and fakes. The question is, Where do these animals then go, and where are they, under what conditions? There's either information that these animals are then returned to entrepreneurs for, let's say, bribes back and they use them again in their entrepreneurial activities. This is a very important question and our faction will support this project in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u91	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi, last speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u92	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye I beg your pardon to pass the word to the German of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u93	We give the word to Inna to the Divine One.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Ratification of this agreement. In fact, it shows us in a little example what the Association with the European Union is going to be for us. This ratification sets standards that we'll go to for more than a year and that's what we need to understand. It's not just the humanization they were talking about. A lot of talk today. This is, first of all, a completely different approach to the infrastructure of any animal's life. Today, it's simple things like dogs outings and just simple garbage dumps that have to be thrown out after the dog has walked. It's definitely a shelter. This is a completely different approach to the veterinary service. It's a huge amount of money that's going to have to be sent to reorganize all the zoos and any places where the animals are. This is the beginning of a huge job, and I would say again today that it's possible to moralize a lot, but when you talk a lot about morality and you don't do anything, the price of this moralism is zero. Therefore, all of us today assume the responsibility of creating other standards in this queen. And this after we sign the Association with the European Community will relate to a huge number of different areas of our lives, individual types of population, individual standards. I would like to invite everyone to a normal professional discussion, because we need to understand that money for everything and at the same time we don't have enough to demand that what hasn't been decided for hundreds of years, and I want to remind you that in our territories hundreds and thousands of years, animals have been referred to as having neither the right nor the ability to be. Well, have human respect. It's a re-education of those guys who still cling to cat tails and so on. It's a huge process. So let's be responsible, and we'll understand that we're going to have to work for many years to get to the standards that we think are better standards today in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u95	Thank you. The statement has been completed. Any final words from the reporter? Reports? You don't? None. I ask the National Deputies to sit down and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Invite MPs, then they will give an interview after the law has been passed. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Law (No. 0032) on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets for Adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:22:20]] For 355 It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing for people to do. And when you look at the factions, the zeros stand as we vote. I'm not going to call the factions or the deputies. For 355, against 0, held-0, didn't vote-50. Decision taken. The factions. All right, let's do it, and we'll vote. Do you have a deal? Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act (No. 0034) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production is under consideration. How will you view it? It's proposed by a reduced procedure. Identify yourself, please vote. [[11:23:38]] For-55 Against the 78, held – 28, not a vote – 238. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 34, Parenthood 12. I invite you to report to Leonid Mikhailovich Novohatak, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u96	Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! The draft law introduced for your consideration has a cultural dimension for cinematography, for producers, for filmmakers, it has practical significance. What's the matter? In 2011, according to a presidential decree, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism was reorganized into the Ministry of Culture. Appropriately, it was confirmed that the Ministry had the right to do what it did not. At about the same time, the State Agency for Film Affairs was created and the situation was duly approved. And today, in connection with these documents, which I said came into conflict with the fact that these European conventions that we have already signed, Ukraine has signed, today is a problem. The proposed bill removes all these problems, because it clearly distinguishes between the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the State Agency for Film Affairs and clearly defines who might be a party to joint film production. I'm by no means an honorable national MP, already in the word "practical significance" at the beginning of my speech. Because after the 1990s and the early 2000s, which were practically a pit in our cinematography, we lost to a large extent a generation of middle-aged people who didn't make movies in the 15th century. And it's really not that unpleasant, it's very scary for any creative person to have no creative realization. In recent years this situation has changed in principle. We have joint film production, it's intensifying. And so today we have 10 film projects in common film production and with so many partners like: France, Serbia, Russia, Germany, Georgia, and Armenia Accordingly, in recent years, there has been a dynamic increase in the financing of the sector, in other words, we can join in joint production. Because this is today the reality of the world’s production. This is a world trend. I'll call you a few numbers. Of course, 2008 and the crisis hit both the humanitarian and the cinema. Thus, in 2009, only 4.5 million dollars were allocated to the national budget. It's nothing for movies, because it's a high-value production. But in 2010, when the economy went up a little bit, thanks to the policies of today’s government, 30 and 4.5 halves have already been allocated — and this government has done so. In 2011-2012, funding amounts to 94-96 million dollars. You see, it's growing three times. That's not what the movie makers dreamed of in the '90s. In fact, this year, the year is not yet over, and 90 million dollars have already been funded. According to these figures, there's an appropriate number of movies that are in production. By the way, I want to say that in a year, a movie, well, a game is usually not made. That's up to two years and a little bit more. But if in 2010 our entire Ukrainian state in its territory made one film, then in 2011 it's already 12 movies and last year it's 87. And today, this year, roughly the same number is either in production, or in production, or in production, or in this year, we're going to have a product. In this number, and this year, exactly, 84 movies, in this figure, and the films until the 200th anniversary of Longevk, and the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, and a lot of what we hope will be a decent place in international film festivals. At the same time, film festivals are both feature films and animations. So, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support this bill and this will allow you to improve the production of film in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u97	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Haydos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u98	Istvan Haydos, faction of the Party of the Regions. In support of the bill drafted to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree and approved by the government, I would like to point out that it is positive that there is a clear distinction between the Ministry of Culture and the State Agency for Film Affairs and the introduction of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production. Our faction supports this bill. Thank you. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u99	Please answer. Is there anything I can tell you? Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u101	Please give it to Andria Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u102	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Secretary, listen, please. We will support ratification, but the next question is to you as the minister of culture. You know very well that in order for the Ukrainian film industry to function, first of all, our viewers have to have access to our film and, above all, through cinemas. And now in Ukraine, there's this trend in the very destruction of the remains of our own network of cinemas. In particular, Kiev is a major situation that is being destroyed today. There's a question of what might be destroyed by the so-called reorganization of a number of municipal cinemas, among them known as the Kiev Russia, Florence, Bratislava, Russia, there's still a lot of them. And people have serious, actually, suspicions that this could be the raider's passion for these very cinemas. What's your position, and whether these cinemas are really going to work, and whether they're available to people who don't have a lot of money, but they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u103	An understandable question. Dear MPs, in their time, in the early 1990s, made one decision. Is it right or wrong? Well, not exactly, of course, right. The decision that all the theaters were then transferred was municipal property and according to the level of local self - government. And then, and today, the situation is: film production is the Ministry of Culture, and film production is municipal or private cinemas, which are more today. Well, in areas smaller, and in Kiev, you know, it's very large and modern. Not one, not two, not three halls, but five - room and seven - room cinemas, and they don’t. So the direct influence of the Ministry of Culture on film was then, 20 years ago, deprived. Well, as they say, I report what I have. About your question about Kiev. The decision was that of Kyivradya, a local self - government body. As far as I know, it's not about retraining or selling. I'll say it for myself. Two years ago, as deputy head of the Kyiv City State Administration, I introduced a project, along with a group of deputies, to the Kiyivrada session on a moratorium on cinemas and other cultural institutions, but it did not take on the majority. I think we're going to be following this situation along with you. But once again, in the legal sense, there's no record of any of these cinemas being re-profiled tomorrow. As far as Kiev's Russians are concerned, as far as I know, you had a question, there was a more difficult situation. Because for many years, not many, many years ago, more than five years ago, a decision was made on the deposit of this large film complex, so I would say, in a lease on conditions that I know are broken today. Because they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat. The report invites the head of the European Integration Committee, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. Please. And we're going to vote after the MPs' speeches, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is mainly a technical matter. There is a convention ratified by Ukraine called the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production. There's an appropriate structure of the administration that's been changed, that's what the Ministry of Culture used to do, that's where the State Agency for Film Affairs was created, and the question was to make only one change, just in one article, even in one paragraph. The competent authority for granting joint production status in Ukraine, instead of the Ministry of Culture, is proposing to designate the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs. That's all that regulates this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration discussed the proposed draft Law at its meeting on 4 September and decided to bring it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a whole. We would also like to point out that this convention is about a product of joint cinematographic production. The Minister of Culture called statistics that have a relative number of films, but the question is, how many times do we have real productions of cinematography together? So at this step: formal, technical, changes to the name of the competent authority should be the next step so that it is not so that we have a national film agency and there is no film. So I'm proposing to my colleagues, especially the committee of profile, to continue to monitor and perform the control function, to take a closer look at this issue, because film, cinematographic production is just one of the elements of what is called the soft force with which Ukraine could design its European calling, its European aspirations, not only within our country, but also outside, because it's about, inter alia, a convention on joint cinematographic production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u106	Please sign up for the question. Please, the Freedom Union, the Orotyuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u107	Oleg Orotyuk, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. We've talked about film theaters that are being destroyed in district centers today, but please answer the question, what is the situation and when the film network that was once in rural areas will be restored. Because, according to the law in force, rural theaters have the same attitude toward the cultural network and cannot be destroyed. So the big question is, when will the state pay attention to what is happening in rural areas, and when will the villagers also get the opportunity to see a Ukrainian movie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u108	Dear fellow Orphan, thank you for your question. I am also concerned about you, as you are when there will be no discrimination in the country and in the rural area and the possibility of having quality infrastructure conditions. At the same time, I must point out that more and more in today’s world, cinematographic products are being viewed or filmed not only in the cinemas but also in the home, and in other conditions, where there is a worldwide Internet network. But in terms of, let's not forget that the network of film clubs, film theaters, is a network of social infrastructure in villages. And so this is perhaps the only question that you haven't addressed to the European Integration Committee. I think you should address this as a question of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u109	Freedom Union, People's Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u110	I'd like a word with Oleg Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Reporter! Dear colleagues! We are looking at a really technical change to the current Ukrainian law, which relates to what was appropriate to the President’s decree of April 6, 2011 and the reorganization of that decree in the central executive branch. We certainly do not object to the adoption of this bill today. But is there any question if there's another president tomorrow? And it's obviously going to be that way. And maybe there's going to be another reorganization, and we understand that these reorganizations are being carried out quite often in central executive bodies, so it's going to be necessary once again to make changes to the law, if there's such a reorganization and the name changes, you could better write, for example, the central executive of cinematography is doing it, it's doing it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u113	Dear colleague Pankevich, thank you for asking. I think that in any case, it's a question of whether or not it's a question of whether or not it's an effective measure of implementation of a piece of legislation, especially how much Ukraine is implementing the European convention it signed and ratified. Instead, I would like to emphasize that there is a very important dimension that is regulated by the creation and strengthening of a single European cultural space. Because European integration is not just and not as much a law as it is, it's a culture issue, it's a matter of political culture, and it's a question of culture where film is. Clearly, then, from the point of view of management culture, the definition of a competent authority may not be so exciting. But I agree with you that if the competent authority changes in the system of state bodies, the central executive authorities, there will also be a need to change the convention. The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Time is up, please sit down. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the factions. National MP Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u116	Please give Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, once again, indeed, a completely technical change to the Law gives us the opportunity to talk today, to raise questions in the session room about the state of the Ukrainian cinema, and this is good. And it is very important that we today recognize this one competent body that will coordinate all the questions related to the cinematographer, and by using the presence of the minister of honor, we will raise the issue of the need to finance those films that will be cashiers or who will use the attention of the viewers, not to use the sympathy or antipathy of officials and their taste from the Statetelleria and the Derkkinematograph. The second question is that it is equally important for us to admit that not only in district centres, but also in Kiev, the question is, when municipal cinemas from Lviv to Donetsk are given for one bracelet, it is hard to understand why projects are not understood. And unfortunately, such examples can be cited in every city. In Kiev, there was simply an attempt to capture the oldest movie theater by one youthful party of one of the largest parties in Ukraine as if it were a party of power. You know, when we're protecting a movie, we have to turn it down. And it's very important that we really take a systematic view of the Ukrainian cinematographer. Because today the minister gives good figures, 78 films have been made in the last year of the Ukrainians. Please tell me, how many of them have gone to the Ukrainians? A few of them actually showed up at the movies and had a good ride, but they don't even go to UT-1. And that's what we need to do, is that those films that were made behind the budget at least on the channels that are funded from the budget had air. Because it's such a strange story, we film, you know, home video, which then even the minister can't look anywhere. The second question is, so that not only at the movies, we can watch this movie, thank God, Youth provides such a good venue for a demonstration of Ukrainian cinema, but we can support it in Ukrainian cinemas and then we will protect the production of Ukrainian, not only by creating the only organ we support today, but by looking at this problem in a comprehensive way. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u118	Party of regions, national deputy Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I have the text of a European convention in my hands, and what we have or, hopefully, we will do is change the law on ratification. And I would like to point out right away that those sensations and those words that are going on during the discussion on the technical, just the technical side, the technical component of this bill that we're about to vote on, they don't match the reality. It's not technical stuff, it's basic stuff, it's just paperwork. And the fundamental thing is that what we are about to vote on, I hope, is going to be done by all of us, regardless of party-fractional ownership, is about minimizing or limiting the hypothetical, potentially corrupt potential in this area. Why? Because what we can accept now reduces the creator's dependence on an official, makes it impossible for the government to allow or not allow the production of a cinematographic product. That's what we're going to ratify right now. And I would like to emphasize this in particular. And one more moment. You know how they say that a writer or a real writer is not one who writes a lot, but one who is read a lot. This is also true of cinematography. Not one who produces and by means of various legal or illegal moments is given the opportunity to make something that no one else watches, but one who is watched. Because you can split a commercial cinematographer and a non-commercial cinematographer, but a commercial cinematographer gives life to a movie. And that's why I'm going to say it as a consumer. Obviously, it is worth helping people, including the state, who can sell their product, because without it all, it will be no longer on secret drawers, as it was once, because censorship was (but there is no censorship) and because it does not want the consumer. And the fact that today the mechanisms for the distribution of cinematographic products are not just on the web, what they're talking about today, the cinematographers, and that's DVDs, and that's the Internet, God knows what he's talking about, and I'm going to watch, not what I'm being forced to do, but what I like. And for the rest. There are only a few countries that use cinematography to promote propaganda, just a few countries. In all lands a cinematographer is developed only by someone who is sold and bought. I'm not calling for commercialization. I want to notice what the creator has to do, not depend on the official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u120	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u122	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Welcome to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u123	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Well, it's a movie thing to do. These changes are also necessary. Although they only touch the name of the office, the convention is previously organized. But the main task of Parliament is to make the Ukrainian film appear and develop. If it is even assumed to have occurred, it is not widely seen by the Ukrainians. There are movies that are in production. But they are limited in their rental capacity. There is television, but it cannot reach Ukrainian television channels because politics and television channels, and very often movies, are directed essentially against the support of Ukrainian movies. There will be no Ukrainian film when on all the 15 most rating channels we see only Russian TV soap! What are we going to see? We'll see a Russian tax collector, a Russian policeman, a Russian border guard, a Russian investigator, a Moscow and a Tver landscape. But we will never see Kiev, Lviv, Donetsk. We will not even see our militiaman, let alone ordinary Ukrainian people! What a state policy! So if he orders, the TV canal is already targeting the Russian market. Or he's buying Russian ready. The Ukrainian movie comes out -- it either doesn't have a record, or it has a limited rolling history. Because anyway, it's cool -- it's not cool, it's low-budget, it's low-produced, it's not post-sales, it's now said, it doesn't have, it's moving this product. And Ukrainians basically don't know about these 84 movies that are in production. So the money has to be even bigger, much bigger than it is now. But we have to provide support for Ukrainian cinema itself. Hence, those who have these funds must pay to support the Ukrainian film. There has to be a conversation with a movie distributor, there has to be a conversation with television, and there has to be a conversation with cable operators. And there must be an accumulation of Ukrainian money and, sorry, a Ukrainian movie! Because in Russian, it's all over. If you don't turn on the TV, it's not ours, it's only one Ukrainian movie at night, and it's out of the last century of production. So, in summary of all these questions, of course, we should vote, but at some point, preferably sooner, we should have a debate in Parliament about whether there will be a drinking Ukrainian movie in Ukraine, whether we're going to pretend that there's only increasing costs, people, and there's no film, the theater, it's, it's, Benjuk standing and flourishing, and there's still no movie, because even when our best artists in the world are filming it, they can't bring it to the screen. And these topics should be violated soon enough, and now we will vote normally. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u124	Freedom Union, National Deputy Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u125	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Bogdan Benjuk. Dear friends! Dear Mr. Minister! I would also like to highlight, perhaps, the most important thing that we are raising here in the Supreme Council today is about ethics, about the spirit, about the things that are related to the people who are doing movies and the people who are doing it. And there's Ukrainian film, but it doesn't have space, it doesn't have air space, it doesn't have the ability to be shown at the time that we can watch it, and if we don't sleep with you at 2 p.m. and we turn on any channel, we can see Ukrainian movies with you, even those that make up the history of our Ukrainian, but only at night, so much the impression that we have all Ukrainians, those who can't sleep, or live only at night. But we realize that this is not today’s problem, and this is a problem that has been going on for years. And it's very important, Your Honor Leonide Mikhailovich, that this structure of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture or the new structure that is being written in the Ukrainian State Agency of Film, they're working pretty hard right now. The only trouble we would ask you to pay attention to is that there are things that don't allow the creative person to do all that the Ministry of Culture or, more faithfully, the State Agency of Films to do and continue to do, the funding is being cut off on the basis that the state is giving some part of the film. This is what happened to the beautiful Ukrainian director Yuri Illenka, Michael's brother, who is making a film called "Toloka." And the film that was dedicated and being made and prepared by 2014 is the 200th anniversary of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk, to mark this date. But in view of the fact that the state’s funding was done by the state, and those who were attached to the film did not add money, and the film thus stopped. And we realize that it's a very beautiful situation for the state to fund that kind of money for a movie. So there would be a guarantee because this movie is going to be. But there's another thing: who's going to make this movie? Because we know that there's a theater institute called Kargo Carpenka, which prepares young specialists. And those specialists who are involved in the film. Thanks because this institution is, because there are young directors who are directors who make a short meter of that film, we have a Ukrainian movie that knows in the world that it exists. We cannot boast of great epic paintings. Because quantity always produces quality, not vice versa. And so the increased funding depends on us, gentlemen, on the Supreme Council. How will we be able to set up future money in the coming year so that the movie will have these costs, and so that the Ministry of Culture can manage it. Because we narrow ourselves down, we make ourselves poor. And I think, dear friends, it all depends on what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u126	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u127	It all depends on the masters who beat our hearts in the heart. God grant it to be the heart that our land of Ukraine would want to prosper, culture, health, happiness, and all the things that are associated with our people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u128	Thank you. The faction of Ukraine, National Deputy Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, our constituencies. I want to state that the Company's faction supports these changes to the project that are being proposed. But I would like to suggest that we look at this problem more broadly and answer, and what happened to us in this area in 22 years of independent history in Ukraine. And first of all, you have to give an answer, and who did all of this, which is what some people are talking about right now, and who was comfortable with it. I'd like that. So that we don't forget that the system is destroying this sector, because it is not necessary for our people to grow spiritually, so that they know the history, are brought up in the best examples of our heroic people, and that these patterns are, as they say, for our young people, the guidelines they want in their lives. I'd like to remind Leonida Mikhailovich of how we at Komsomol's C.C. created the Youth Film Festival. And this film festival was about young performers, directors, operators, they just showed their talent. What did they turn into now? To play with the red track, no more, no less. When we talk about what is happening to us in Ukraine, what we join in to, we must join ours, our history and our wealth. What do we join in with? And where is the Yaltin Film Studio? Where is the Odessa Film Studio? Where's the Ukrakinochronic today? And where would all those archives, so to speak, have to be used in order not to see American movies on Ukrainian television channels, but Ukrainian? And when we talk about our history, we should say that Ukrainian cinematographers are known in the world just because they are cinematographers known in the Soviet world. Not an independent Ukraine. That is the truth that we need to talk about today! Because it is for the cinematographer to promote the education of people that clubs and theaters are opening up. You're talking about the movies we built, the communists, and you're turning them into brothels with red lights. You're doing all this! I'd like you to be held accountable for what's happening today. When, say, is the movie going to be brought up? When they're filming the government's orders. And today, the buyers are the oligarchs, and they are creating orders for those who are today performers to show in the worst condition both society and its problems, not to raise people up. And last but not least, Leonid Mikhailovich. I don't understand the position of the Ministry of Culture, Sizonenko Classic, but you know him well and he's done a lot in Ukrainian cinema. What it is, the Ministry has generally refused to comply with the Supreme Council's decree on the 90th anniversary of this outstanding man who shed blood.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u130	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u131	And another wish. When we talk about what we remember, I find it strange that Leonid Mikhajlovich, the decree of the President of the 1000 years of the Lyadian Rock Monastery, has been celebrated. And when the decrees are issued, the minister sends a welcome letter there instead of coming to our history to know and use this activity to educate people on these examples. So you and I are talking about what we have in the cinema, no more Ukrainian cinema.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling a recess in 12 hours 30 minutes. After the break, the deputies will speak and we will make decisions. Faction leaders, I ask you to come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council right now so that we can consider a very important matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u133	Invite MPs. We are continuing our consideration of the draft Act (0034) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production. We still have speeches and decisions. Members of the People's Party would like to sign up for this. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u135	Please hand over Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u136	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Really, it's kind of like, on the one hand, a technical convention we've, I think, turned into an accident discussion about what's going on in the film industry at all, especially in the film industry. Because there's a lot we can say which of the public authorities we're going to have to do what function of defining a common product, of producing a common product. But little, really, is said in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and where this national film product is going to be broadcast or distributed, and who will see it. I'm not going to talk about the infrastructure of cities and villages, because it's completely ruined, it's about theaters. What I'm saying is that we've had this last year in Kiev. Ten film theatres: Florence, Kiev Rousseau, Bratislava, Leipzig, Leningrad, Cracow, Shevchenka's film theatre, Gagarin's name is just the last year of the raid by the Kiev City Administration. Why is that? Because the city of Kiev today is governed by completely random people who don't care about the rights of kyans, where they will have cultural fun and watch movies. And that's why the strike faction in the queue requires that, and yesterday, there was an appropriate decree that the election of the Kiev City Head and the Kiev City Council should take place in Kiev on 15 December. The Chinese must have legitimate authority. The Chinese must entrust authority, not to the governor of the President's administration, but to the person who will be chosen by these Chinese. So we suggest that we immediately consider this issue in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u137	Does this have anything to do with ratification, Paul? Got it. Freedom Union, national deputy of Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u138	Oleg Orotyuk, Freedom faction. Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u139	Irina Farion is being handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u140	Mr. Minister, you may recall my MP's request regarding the notorious Mudaki and Ukraine Music show. I received an answer that was totally unsatisfying. I hope that this Parliamentary Hall needs to hear what the internal production of Ukraine is about, because today we are talking about joint production of cinematography. So, in the Mudak movie show, a respected society that supported the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs, we have a separate film novel called Mudaks. This individual film novel is dedicated to its magnificence to Ukrainian literature. The day before Taras Shevchenka's 200-year-old anniversary, it's particularly notable. In the context of yesterday’s decrees, Longevnik and Kotsubinski, this is also a sign. So what do we have in this movie novel, Mudaks? I'm sorry, but I can't even say it orally, but I can only read it. Thus, in the 8th - grade textbooks of Ukrainian literature, this textbook is presented as a tool for assholes. This textbook presents classics of Ukrainian literature: Taras Shevchenko, John Franco, Lesia Ukraine, and other crusaders — with their whiskers, horns, hooves (this is a black felter). As this motion picture shows, it's a bold pen that's drawn something that I can't even sound -- below the belt. So it must be a hint of who is stronger and who is weaker. What's scary is that this film novel got permission from the Ukrainian State Agency for film issues to produce this open Ukrainianophobic product. Of course, the Ministry of Culture says that it can only be seen after 16 years. But it's in open access on the Internet, and anyone can watch that obscenity. I recall in an undertone the words of our brilliant filmmaker Alexander Long: "How do we hate this people in order to bless such a product that would go into the widest possible environment? How is it necessary to solidarity with both the leading humanities ministries of education and culture in order to destroy Ukrainian literature?" Because recently, the so-called concept of Ukrainian literature, literature in general, was adopted. According to this concept, the leading place in the literary process is, of course, Russian literature, of course, the works of famine have been removed from Ukrainian literature. It's about the "Mary" of Ulas Samchuk. It's about the "Yellow Prince" of Barca. Even the Bojarina of the Forest of Ukraine hurt them. This is how we in Ukraine honor Ukrainian classics through the Ministry of Education and through the Ministry of Culture. So, Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, it's not honorable. I'm not talking to you like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u141	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u142	I'm just addressing you as a person with a Ukrainian name, maybe it's your real ID. Are you happy to watch such movies about Ukrainian classics? And to the end. You and the Ministry of Education want the truth, well, send you in Oreste Luto style, you just don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u143	Freedom Union, National MP Melnik. I gave the floor to the national MP, Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Honorable MPs, high-ranking TV sets, radio audiences! First of all, I'm probably talking to the media. I'd like to draw attention to what's going on in the session room right now. First, well, I'm going to point out that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union voted in favour of the previous law and will vote in favour of this bill. The last bill, 0032, sounded like "ratification." That's the whole law. We've been looking at 40 minutes. The current bill is "ratification" as well. Ratified, that's the same thing as 40 minutes. Now it's taking time. Why? Because the following drafts, four of them relate to education designed to establish a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions, both in schools and in preschool schools. And there's another bill that applies to the moratorium on the closure of hospitals. And so the Party of the Regions, more faithfully, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Communists did not support the reduced procedure. And now they're probably going to vote. Why is all of this being done? And in order for the five bills to be passed either by a reduced procedure or by a reduced procedure, and so that they will not be placed in the agenda tomorrow. Instead, next week's work in the districts will be. And accordingly, if the unrespected representatives of the majority come to the county without voting in favour of the moratorium on the closure of schools, medical institutions, they will have nothing to say. Instead of looking for money to pay the budgeters — the doctors, the teachers — they are now taking time not to vote today, once again. How will you look into the eyes of those children you are so concerned about? You give animals 40 minutes! We're animals. We're in! But we are in favour of dedicating to humans, to human destiny, to human health, to human well - being, no less than you are dedicating to animals. That is why we urge, however, if today is not enough to consider legislation on the moratorium on the closure of educational institutions and medical institutions, to move and tomorrow to include these issues in the agenda and to consider them fully. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u145	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, Deputy Zuravsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I'd like to answer to the honourable MP from Freedom. But you voted, and we voted, and the entire room voted in favour of a full discussion of the matter. And what did the speaker have to do, please tell me? He follows the road map set out in the Law on the Rules. That's it. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout! I asked this question how we would consider. Put to the vote a reduced procedure. The opposition factions without the Party of the Regions could raise 150 votes and consider, but they did not vote. Who do we blame, my friends? Whom do we blame? What's with the Party of Regions? I'm non-factional, you're all the same to me. You're all the same, but objectivity should be, my friends. We already have Igor. Please, National Deputy Igor Miroshnichenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u148	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Let's go back to the movies, the reverend society, the honourable voters! We're being offered today, and we're going to support it, to change the body that will determine the status of joint production, the production of film, from the Ministry to the state agency. In fact, we are very clearly aware that regardless of who is going to determine whether there is a status of joint production or not, as long as the Ukrainian authorities represent Ukrainians today, the film produced in Ukraine, but not having any Ukrainian substance, will be recognized as a joint production. And it's going to be on Ukrainian television. Because the values represented by today's power -- forgive me, Mr. Minister, I deeply respect you for coming to this Parliament as opposed to other ministers -- the values of today's power are determined neither by Ukrainian language nor by Ukrainian culture, but by Balajka, by chance, by chicken. And that's why they have all the movies that are being produced in Russian in Ukraine today, with Russian sub dance actors with Ukrainian employees who are trying to help make copies of these movies. By the way, on the streets of Kiev, where Russian numbers hang, not to show that it's Ukraine. Until then, we're going to have a television where we're going to have movies with joint production, but with the Russian essence and with the imperial subtext. Today, Ukraine has been deprived of the opportunity to watch Ukrainian cinema. Today, Ukrainian television promotes Russian culture through so - called joint production films, although there are Ukrainian films and are examples of successful Ukrainian film industry. Especially the movie "The One Who Went Through the Fire," which included spinning in the theaters that the current government is closing down. He's got that cashier level that can be praised except for the American blockbusters. But unfortunately, there's no room for this film on Ukrainian television, because today we have the heroization of Russian history, the heroization of KGB agents, the Russian ments, the Zekovi chancell and the gang. This is a culture that we're offered with joint production films. And that's why we insist today that movies that have a common production, mostly Ukrainian-Russian films, should only be given the status of a film that has Ukrainian subtext, which has Ukrainian meaning and has Ukrainian language. Because it's very important today that Ukrainian television, including the First National Channel, which is financed by the funds of Ukrainian taxpayers, turn it into a Ukrainian propaganda product, including the propaganda of Ukrainian cinema. And as long as we don't return the Ukrainian film to Ukrainian television, it won't be in the movies. Because television is the first place you can support a Ukrainian movie, promote it, and advertise it. I'm sure there's a great future in Ukrainian cinema. The time is near when this future will come true, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u149	Thank you. There's one minute to play. The national deputy Yavorowski. Time's up. And then I'll give you my word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I was next, and I was entitled to a full three - minute performance. Why are you depriving me now? Because of your mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u151	Miroshenko, why did he come to the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u152	Well, I don't know. But give me my legal three minutes. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u153	I'm sorry, you have a minute, don't waste time. Come on, come on, Volodymyr. I'll make it up to you on the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u154	Yes, on the third you're compensating me. Thank you very much. Today, we are looking at a seemingly formal question. Take responsibility for film production in Ukraine, record it legislatively. And from the Ministry of Culture for Film Management. It seems to me that even if there was an offer not to be made by the Film Management, but, let's say, by the Ministry of Agriculture or by Naftogaz of Ukraine, which would be responsible for the film, there would be absolutely no difference! We had some brilliant artists who were culture ministers. This is Duba, this is the same Bogdan Stupka. But there were just officials. As a result, today we should answer the question, Why is there no Ukrainian film in 20 years? And that's what today is.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u155	Give me one more minute. And finish, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u156	Fight! Fight! You see, there's something we can do. As a result, I am addressing Novahatka, whom I am deeply sympathetic to as a person. But you called it 90 million a movie. You know perfectly well that there's half the money, it's those debts from the past few years. What is the most important problem today? Why don't we have a Ukrainian movie after we had Long, had John Mikolaychuk, the same Bogdan Stupk?Oh, my God! In fact, we have nothing today. What films have been made in common over the past 20 years? "Merry boys" or "Cuban reptiles"? I think that's the only thing that's been taken in conjunction with other countries. As a result, today's main method of raising money is starting to make a movie, and half of it is missing money, and the ends are gone in the water, and the money is gone. I'm talking to the minister. Break this situation, well, we can't live in such a terrible vacuum when Ukraine is a huge country, Poles have, Georgians have, Ukraine doesn't have a movie, ministers change, and movies have never been. Because of that, of course, we vote, you take responsibility for someone else for the Ukrainian movie, but you have to think, and someone said right here, we have an anti.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Is there a closing word for the reporter, the co-rapporteur? Is it? One minute, please. Replica, National Deputy Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u158	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Your Honor, I'd like to give you an answer regarding those remarks that are echoing at our address on the side of the Natigaliks. We don't vote in favour of the short procedure, the faction of the Company, in principle, because we insist that every law be considered in full procedure in order for everyone to have the right to express his or her point of view and thus to present the problems that each faction considers necessary. And the relative talk about why we don't have one or the other, and because Ukrainian culture today is represented at the world level by the Gringhols. And I think we haven't forgotten about it, and we haven't forgotten that our artists are going to shoot in Russian shows, not Ukrainians, because they're invited there, and in Ukraine they've destroyed Ukrainian movies. And the film won't, as far as we can tell, come out of the discussion and what we've done in 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, let's work. The national deputy Yavorowski accused Igor Miroshnichenko of taking turns. That's why Igor Miroshnichenko said he was on his turn. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u160	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Vladimir Vasilovich, well, first of all, you don't have to face opposition MPs with your foreheads. We see how well you manipulate the Rules when you are comfortable. And what Alexei Kaida said, I want the Ukrainian voters to hear again. A party of regions is turning Parliament into buttons every day, shortening the procedure on important issues that we are voting on without discussion, and Ukrainian voters do not know what we are voting for. And at the same time, when it comes to ratifying interstate agreements that we all support, we don't have to discuss animals for an hour of 20 minutes. This is the exact time that we have set aside. Instead, knowingly delaying time to consider important billings on school closures and hospital closures. This is what we're talking about. When you're comfortable, you shorten the procedure, and if you're not comfortable, you're taking the time to stay out of those laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u161	Oh, you see, I have a line now. Don't blame me, I'll put you to a vote, and I'll ask you all to vote for a reduced procedure, for a full vote. It's up to you. Why are you deceiving the electorate, my friends? Well, that's not supposed to happen. Minister, please, a closing statement. All the charges have been dropped. There will be no more replicas today. Please. The replicas are over, the law must be passed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Vasilovich! I don't know who, I'm happy to hear these discussions from that government bed. Because from this court of honor in recent years, I have had to report the law twice today. And the previous two times, there was not such a heated discussion of the culture of humanities as today. In all the collisions and polar thoughts that have been said, I'm sure that's the way we're going through this discussion. And secondly, the specific things that sounded like "The Muds." I want to make it clear that this film is not made for Ukrainian budget money. As for the moral side, well, frankly, I'll tell you that a lot of the films that I've had in international film festivals over the last three or five years, they would have called out, I'm sure, a sharp discussion in the hall. So there are creative issues that cause natural discussion. Well, of course we didn't finance it, I mean again. Thank you all for having such an interest in discussing the matter. And I believe there will be a Ukrainian movie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Does Gregory Mikhailovich have a closing word? None. Then I ask you to calm down, sit down, and let us vote. I am voting on the draft Act (0034) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on Joint Cinematographic Production for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[13:05:00]] For 303 Against-0, held-0, didn't vote-95. Decision taken. The factions. Let's go to. The law was passed, I said. Let us now consider first - reading issues. I'll ask you how we'll look at it. A draft Order (2367) on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general secondary education institutions in rural areas is under consideration. How will we view it? Is it full? It's full. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u164	Huh? They don't vote for that. Vote for summary procedure. There are no suggestions under the reduced procedure. Short? Report. Alexander Sergiyovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u165	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Now it's going to be a test not just for factions, but for each MP himself. Because this is about the right to education, the right to education for children living in villages, for the right to study at home. This is such an important question that similar decrees, similar bills have been passed by several deputies, and they apply both to schools and to the extra - school system, and to hospitals. So I would like to point out that, gratefully, I have to say the same thing about the authors of the decision, and about Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, and about Mr. Sergio Labazajuk, who have made the same decision about the moratorium on closure or schooling or the establishment of extra-school education. What is the problem? We all realize that in Ukraine, unfortunately, there is a decline in population. And under this horde, under the guise of optimism, the Ministry of Education has chosen the tactics of destroying the education system. I'm really sorry, but I'm going to get the numbers right now. During the last year (this is from the Center for Political Studies and Analysts), 161 schools have been closed in Ukraine in the last year. Instead, only 29. The most affected areas were 35 schools, 17 schools closed in Winnitzkin, 13 schools closed in Žitomyrščina. And then I'm going to go over to the State Department data that anyone can see on the State Statistical Committee website. So, since 2009-2010, school years have closed down about a thousand schools in Ukraine. Think about it, about a thousand schools were actually deprived of the right to education. So the decision I made is to put a moratorium on closure and schooling and PTU in rural areas by the end of 2015. I am very grateful to the Committee on Science and Education, and personally to Mrs. Lilia Greenevich for the unanimous support of this decision at the meeting of this committee. So the experts, the people who are learning science and education, have all come to realize that the situation is not normal right now. Then I would like to thank you, think about it, as an opposition, I will now thank the Ivano-Frankiv District Administration, because for my parliamentary appeal to close four schools, two in the Town Hall and two in the Cologne, in villages in the Cologne of Ghana and Youth, and in the township of Dalishevo and Rakovec, the Ivano-Frankiv district government has understood and stopped this decision, and we have managed to stand down from these schools. Unfortunately, most administrations do not take that position, but it listens to the Ministry of Education and continues to destroy education. Let me remind you, that's a political question, that about a thousand schools that have been closed since 2009-2010 are about 90 percent of Ukrainian schools. So it's not just about the offensive to rural school, it's about reducing the use of Ukrainian. Right now I'm going to have a request, just like the proposal, because I thanked the district government for not having it shut down four primary schools in our Ivano-Frankish district, I would like to thank the hall, every deputy for supporting such a moratorium on closing schools and PTU in rural areas by the end of 2015. And I'd like every voter in the majority deputies to know which MP supports this decision, and who doesn't support it, who doesn't want children in villages to learn in their own villages, to learn where they live. Thank you, Your Honor, and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Is there a question? Please, Anna Herman. I told you, Anna Herman. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u167	Apparently, my dear colleague, you can't suspect me in sympathy with the Minister of Tobacco. But we are people of the state, and that is why we must be people of justice. And when you were talking about closing schools, you didn't say a word about what there are villages that have three children who don't have children, there's no one to teach. And for those children, the state took care of the school buses. And for the first time in Ukraine, schools are provided with new and quality buses. You need to be fair to someone you love and to someone you do not love. The smoker is not really responsible for the fact that there are almost no children in Ukrainian villages.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Anna, for asking. And I absolutely agree with you that we need to be fair. Thus, for the sake of justice, it is necessary to say that they are not closing schools where the number of children is falling. And the examples were recently in Poltava, and I think Mr. Oleg is going to tell us about it and the Pole MPs are closing down schools where there are dozens of children just because he doesn't want there to be another school. I have specific examples of our own electoral work, where we managed to stand back, and there are many more children. Moreover, I'll tell you that there's a gradual increase in birth rates in Ukraine, and it's already higher in several areas than in mortality. Not as fast as we'd like. But I'm going to list the areas where birth has already exaggerated mortality. This is the Zakarpatsk region, this is the Plain region, this is the Volinsk region, this is Ivano-Frankivska, Chernivetska and the city of Kyiv. Instead, schools close there. So it's actually political repression. Instead of saving schools, how children’s kindergartens had to be saved. I'll remember when the kindergartens were privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Any more questions? Sign up. Three minutes to ask. Stoyan. Please, Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Reporter! You really said you were privatized schools. This was done at a time when oranges came to power. They disgraced all the gardens, closed them down. Now our government and the President are restoring these gardens. I'd like to ask you, please tell me what you're suggesting, how many children do we have to open schools with? Because, really, I've been to Winnitzkin recently, in my own village, where my parents are from, there's two kids, and there's no point in opening a school. But Mrs. Herman correctly said that even there was a bus to take them to the village of Zazerne. So how many kids are you suggesting to be in the country to open schools? I want every village to have a school, because it's really a culture, it's a child rearing. But we have to get out of financial capacity and out of human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. You know very well that Ukrainian legislation works, and not even in school, but we have a clear definition of how many children should be in the classroom. And you know that less than three kids in the classroom aren't exactly allowed. But Mr. Zharavsky, your colleague, by the way, has now taken the initiative to reduce this barrier. This is not about schools, and there are no schools where there are only two children. There are no such schools. And I'll remind you about closing the nursery. I've heard these numbers about what your authority is about to reveal. 29 schools were opened and renovated, and 161 were closed. So statistics: 5.5 times decrease. Five-and-a-half times. So I asked to be objective.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u172	I beg you, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the People's Deputies of Popescu. I'm asking for reporters on the balcony. You're almost out. I'm asking you so much, you're bending over a little bit and you'd fall out. Take care of your life. Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u173	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, I would like to inform you that, despite the critical assessment you are making, in the Chernivecki region in the last two years, only Romanian villages have been built, a school in the village of Magala Novoselicki district, a high school, a second turn, in the village of Krasnoilsk. A school is now being built in the village of Kulikowka in the Hertzai district, a school in the village of Podlisnom, and so on. Of course, there is a problem. But if it is not possible for children to reach other schools when they close up. I'd like to ask you some specific questions. In those villages that you called Rakovec and other schools in the region of Gorrodkovsky or Kolomy region of Johno-Frankow district, are these children provided by school buses there? If not, why not make an appropriate request for district education to the Minister of Tobacco? And then these issues will be resolved. If there is a question, I can also join in and write such a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Well, I'm glad you're ready to join in the work together. And I'm willing to ask questions with you and the Minister of Education and with the heads of the district administrations. I just wanted to say that we don't have to open up schools depending on political relevance and depending on the senior candidate or the MP that our party belongs to. There can be no such thing as opening schools in Romanian - speaking regions and closing schools in Ukrainian - speaking regions. No, we're interested in both Ukrainian-speaking regions and Romanian-speaking and Crimean Tatar-speaking regions, all of them have schools. There must be a common approach. And that's why it's proposed by 2015 regardless of language – think about it! – no matter the language, have a moratorium. We all realize that optimisation is needed to some extent and in educational institutions, it is necessary, but not for this authority. Unfortunately, not for this direction in the Ministry of Education. I hope that your party will properly assess the quality of the leadership of this Ministry of Education and replace the minister. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Thank you. Time's up. Sit down. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lilia Mikhailnovna Greenevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u176	Mr. Volodymira Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, I offer you your opinion on the position of the Committee on Science and Education in connection with this draft decision. To begin with, I would like to use a few numbers to describe today’s state of affairs. Of the more than 27,000 villages in Ukraine, there are fewer than half of them. And those who don't have, in a third of them, even more than a third of them, in 37 percent, there are children, from 20 to 50 children who could learn in a school. Two hundred thousand children in the village live more than three miles [3 km] away from the school, and so they need a ride. And in this situation, we have over 700 schools closed in rural areas in previous years, and this year we have not opened up in rural areas from the number previously reported by Oles Donya, more than a hundred educational institutions. I mean, even in the time of the real financial crisis under the government of Yulia, Timoshenko did not have such a massive closure of rural schools. I'll explain the point. Look at the word "closure." We realize that in a demographic decline, when primary schools are being upgraded in educational districts, there is a possibility that children of senior school will be transferred to another updated primary school to study in beautiful physics, chemistry, and biology, then the level of school is declining. But this ruling here refers to a moratorium on closure. Closure is an extermination. This is a situation where young children of primary school aged 6, 7, 8 should get up an hour earlier, drive in our weather, sometimes wait for this bus, on our way to another school. There they complete their lessons earlier than they did in high school. Wait till the middle of the day to come home almost by nightfall! Imagine the damage to the health of such children. Thus, the whole world has a workable solution: Young children should learn as close to home as possible. That's what this one is talking about. That's the order. Another aspect of this issue is the social infrastructure of the village. If you are here, you recognize that the development of the village is one of the strategic areas for Ukraine's development, then the social infrastructure of the village should not be destroyed, but it should be built up. Because every educational institution in the village is a potentially socio-educational information centre, all the more so in the context of the internet initiatives of the whole country that was recently there. spoke for all educational institutions in Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to recognize your responsibility for voting for this decision, because it's about shutting down, that is, getting rid of it. To conclude, I would like to quote the words of the President's address to Parliament. "The process of optimizing the network of educational institutions, including the formation of educational districts, shall not deprive children of this age the opportunity to learn from their place of residence! Note this. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u178	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the next three decisions in the order of the day are critical because they cover other aspects related to the network of educational institutions. Please put to the vote a reduced procedure. Otherwise, we will not reach them today and they will be put back in a long box. I call on everyone to vote in favour of this decree!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u179	Lilia Mikhailna, the question is, maybe you have it. I put it to a vote. But the MPs did not support it. Huh? You didn't put it in now? I beg you, is there a question for Lily Mikhailovna? Sign up. And she was alone. And then, when I saw it, I wrote it down. I beg you, the Freedom Union, the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u180	I ask you to give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u181	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u182	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a very simple question for you. Unfortunately, you're a co-reporter, not a major reporter. How do you think we should do that if we have so-called brigade villages, so-called tents and so on, where even a bus can't get to, and there's one school where children really fit in on foot. It's about three kilometers away, about five, but it's in the center. And there's 10, 12, 15 kids coming in anyway. And there are teachers. Because unfortunately, sometimes there are five or six teachers for these 15 children. And then what do these children do? Should they not learn? Whether they should immediately work for the cities to head the reservation or to Viszavinyuk, to whom they were thanked, even though it was districtal.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u183	Please answer. The question is, well, the question is clear. Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u184	Indeed, 1,087 villages in Ukraine in general do not have any bus connections and the ability to drive normally. Such a situation is quite possible, and I am convinced that we owe the children the opportunity to learn in this case. Now a lot of new opportunities will open up distance learning if, in fact, the promises of a broadband Internet, which the President has stated, are not made up of promises and theories. So now, if there's a human potential, if, more or less, these children of a younger school age, it's quite possible to give them training in places. Our problem is, we're always talking about budget optimization, but that's not the goal of optimising schools, the goal of optimisation around the world is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u185	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u186	For a child from a worse learning situation to get better. If a child is sent to another school, where the toilet is also on the street, where the fuel is also cold, then the quality of education remains unresolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u187	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u188	I ask you to pass the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u189	Please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u190	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Lilia Mikhailovna, I will first respond to a previous reporter who said only about Romanian schools. I would like to say that in the Cherniewec region, Ukrainian schools in the village of Youth of the Głboczyk Region and Kamyanka in the district where the Party of the Regions did not vote. So we're not sharing students, we're building where there's no possibility, when there's no possibility. It's about the question. I fully agree with you that children, especially younger ones, should study at home. And why wouldn't a committee head along with the minister of education sit down and talk about this kind of question as a kindergarten? If we were to rebuild kindergartens that are not in schools right now, and you know, there's this program, and there's also a solution for younger ones. And as for the seniors, there's a bus to be provided. And where there are no buses, by the way, the previous reporter didn't tell me whether or not there are buses in the village of Rakovec. If we don't, let's go together and we'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u191	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, the kindergarten has the right to exist today and there are no problems in the status of the institution. The problem is the chronic underfunding of local budgets and the modest costs that the government puts into the formula for inter-budget transfers to education. And because these student funds don't cover student spending that can actually be, the local budgets are facing a terrible challenge. They can't finance the network. And when the minister of education claims all the time that I'm here for nothing, it's the local self-government that shuts down schools, it's not. Because it's the government that needs to review the formula for inter-budget transfers. And stop funding the student's money according to the rest of the principle. Only then will there really be a state policy and the situation will change.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u192	Time's up. Thank you. Have a seat. Willing to Discuss? Please sign up for factions. National MP Mohnik, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Alexander Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u194	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u195	Alexander Sitch, Freedom, Ivano-Frankovsky. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction, I am grateful that the children were given no less attention than the dogs. And the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" faction will definitely vote in favour of this decision in order to stop the vachanal, so-called optimisation, which runs all over Ukraine, but also to the greatest extent in Eastern and Southern Ukraine. And it is only because in Western Ukraine local self-government authorities are the real venues for democratic discussions and protect the interests of their constituents and their citizens. By the way, in this context, I would like to advise my colleague Donya not only to contact the district administration but also the district council of the Cologne District Council, the County District Council. In contact with them, a colleague would know that the order for the so - called optimization of more than 40 institutions, including health and education, was signed by the first deputy head of the district administration. And thanks to pressure from the members of Ivano-Francchia, a budget commission of the District Council, an education and science commission of the District Council, as well as pressure from the media, was urgently called on by the public to force the head of the district government administration to eliminate the previously issued order. As you work with the district council, you might know. But no wonder, because by supporting this bill, we also point to inadequacies. Especially so. You're writing in paragraph two of the Order to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the authority of local self-government to fund education. To your knowledge, article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government says that education is a delegated authority of the State. Once they are delegated by the State to local authorities, they are obliged to provide funding. Obviously, without knowing the Local Self-Government Act, you're actively contributing to the destruction of this democratic institution in Ukraine. And it stands on the line of destruction just like the higher legislature. Dear Society, I urge all of you to support this Order, regardless of the inadequacies it is. And once again, stop the vacchanal of closing schools in Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u196	The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, we're not looking at this painful question for the first year, and intuitively, I feel it might end, as it ended 3, 2 and 1 years ago. When everyone here supports the solution of this problem, then the bill, or the decision is taken as a basis, and then it is adopted on one more basis and then not voted in general. Here in the general question box is a bill to reduce the filling of classes in rural schools from 3 to 5. I'll keep you posted. So this is my bill in the previous vocation, which was voted three times in favour of the first and the second readings, and before the elections, they said in general that they would vote. And a few days before the election, the first deputy minister came in here and he swore, almost slit his wrists, and said that I swear by blood, that we would have three children in rural schools, not five. At the parliamentary hearings, the minister here promised, I held parliamentary hearings that the Ministry had died and that the law would be passed. No one voted for him in either way or in general. Now it's coming in a new way, and I'm absolutely convinced that this is going to be the first, first, repeat and tenth reading. That's why we have to say to ourselves here, as Parliament, that if we don't have a state strategy to save the social infrastructure of the Ukrainian village today, we're going to lose the Ukrainian village in the near future. Because so many landowners who are not local today, they're here, they're coming once, they've got seismics, you know what's in the village right now? That you're first a sunflower, then a corn, and then you've cleaned it with a steak, because the owner of the land has canceled it, and they don't need it. So they come twice, they take the crops, they don't give a penny to the school, they don't give a penny to the preschool, they don't give a penny to the house. Parents fix it all, officials repair their buildings, they don't give a penny in school, and we want to resolve to save the social infrastructure system. Obviously there must be a national program, there must be law. Even if the decision is voted on, I am convinced that officials will not execute it, explaining that it is a recommendational decision. So my position is, we have to make clear in the law the mechanism for adopting decisions on the organization of closure. Only the congregations of the territorial community, not the village council, the district council, but the community congregations, the villages, the villages, in the case of the city, the local referendum. The decision to reduce filling to three classes. The position on another system of financing local self - government and supporting schools, cultural homes, and hospitals. In fact, the general government program for the restoration of the Ukrainian village, only then will it enable us to save. Of course, as a faction, we will vote in favour of these decrees and for the law that is passed on the twentieth time. But once again, it's tactical stuff, we have to strategically protect the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u198	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, in expressing our faction's position, I would like to state that we are going to vote in favour of this project. But in order to make the right conclusions, we need to make them more profoundly based on the fact that closing the school is the result of a policy that has been going on for 22 years in Ukraine. This is where my predecessors said there's no money, and where they're going to come from, because you voted to privatize all businesses, create opportunities for oligarchs, export money abroad, shadow economy. Where will you get the money then? When people are forced out of work today, millions have gone abroad to work. Where will the income tax be used to fill local budgets? We should not include, as young people say, fools here, but talk about the essence of what happened in 22 years. If there is no tractor brigade in the country today, no farm, no youth left today, where will the children come from? What are you gonna do with your finger? So I wanted each of you to be responsible for what was done in 22 years, because the destruction of the school is the destruction of the state. And that's clear, when we're talking about low wage levels, where does a low level of wage come from? There's no money, there's no funding. I would like to emphasize once again, Your Honor, if young people have left the village, if coal is expensive for a rural school, gas is expensive. What, did you take a look at Hmelnickin or Winnickin for 700 dollars at school to buy gas for them to burn? We didn't get it. Did they put someone in prison for using government money like that? They didn't plant it. Here I am addressing everyone today, the consciousness of my colleagues, of the people's deputies, needs to be radically reviewed in general by the state policy that we have in our country. And the communists didn't offer to look at the national farm management program at first and to rebuild a state-owned institution that would allow for stable sources of public budgeting. Secondly, we really need to have a government order to organize the work of the same high school, so that we can understand where and what we're preparing our young people for. I am convinced that among the problems that concern us today are the problems that have to do with our population shrinking dramatically. And that's the problem with the same drug problem, the village sings like the whole of Ukraine sings, because for young people, they show that you have to drink beer in order to be a real Ukrainian. And no one says that it is necessary to work to make the state richer, but they talk about how to meet the needs of individuals who produce this beer or other drinks in order to make fools of our young people. The Company's faction has offered a specific action programme, and I hope that if it's to be implemented, we really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u200	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the national deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u201	Please give the floor to the National MP, Vitalina Dzos.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u202	Pass it on, please. Turn on the microphone. Vitalina Jose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! The introduction of a moratorium is, of course, a very responsible and serious and decisive step. But before doing that, I think I need to pay attention to how this issue is already settled in the existing legislative field. And so far in the current legislation, the question of the restructuring and elimination of public education institutions is regulated by two laws: the Law of Ukraine on General Secondary Education and the Law on Local Self-Government. Thus, the Law on general secondary education in part six of article 11 states that under this law the restructuring and liquidation of general educational establishments in rural areas based on communal property is permitted only by the consent of territorial communities. So what Mikola Tomenko said is prescribed in this law. And closing schools without the consent of the territorial communities is a violation. And the second. Of course, the Law on Local Self - Rule. We violate our own authority of local councils, we intervene in matters that should be resolved by local authorities. You don't have to hide your head in the sand right now. Let's address the issues that parliamentarians have to decide about: this is about funding (at least 10 percent of the gross domestic product), talking about the issues that we have to deal with, not local self-government. Next. It seems to me that the only criterion for being a school or not being one is the need for this school in rural areas. If you need it and it works, it has to be. And if it's empty, you don't have to keep it, and you don't have to pay for utilities or anything else. Last one. You know, if that's the case, today it's about saving buildings or saving schools. The school is not just a building, the school is a standard of education, the school is a material and technical base, the school is a quality teacher, that's what a school is. And in the end, for the record, I want to tell you, dear colleagues, that in our history there was a time when such a moratorium was in place. And then, at this very time, the school was shut down in our country the most. Most of all! Thus, the adoption of this law is not a panacea of all woes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u204	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u205	I think we need to look at this at the state level. And so this is where the faction of the Party of Regions isn't going to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u206	Vitalia Klitschka, National Deputy of Carpunz.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u207	Please give the word to Rostislav Pavlovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u208	Please, Rostislav Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u209	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Rostislav Pavlenko, Faction of the Hitting Party Vitaly Klicka. Dear colleagues, first of all, offer. Given how much has been said today, how important are those draft regulations that we now make to the agenda is the proposal to vote for the continuation of the session before we consider these issues in the agenda. We can do this by means of a reduced procedure so that we can still work on the committees. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to put this to a vote. Further on, the substance of the questions that we are talking about. Clearly, we have much to say in the laws. But unfortunately, today we have to talk about extraordinary politics, because the laws say one thing, and the honourable reporters have already mentioned both facts and figures as to how these laws are being implemented or not being implemented. So we have to talk about the moratorium, we have to give time for communities not to depend on the dictatorship of executive power and not to go to the optimisation of what is called the one that is imposed on them. Dear colleagues, this is a very important question where this optimization is being carried out, which should be optimized, and where to take resources to support education and support the institutions that we propose to ban and close. This is the first, this is a matter of budgetary policy and budgetary policy priorities. There's no budget. On Friday, we will hear something from government officials, but we must insist that education be in the budget priorities, not the support of the authorities or the penal apparatus. The other one. The question is, where do you get the money to optimize it? Dear colleagues, there's a lot of information in the media about how in one area two million dollars is spent on buying cars, another authority buying curtains for the other two million dollars, and so on, that's what needs to be optimized. According to UBS data alone, government purchases spend between 10 billion and 50 billion dollars, which means they're being stolen. Here's what we need to optimize, where we need to take the money. The Strike faction will support all those decisions about the moratorium on closures and educational institutions and extra-school institutions and so on. And once again, I ask you to put a proposal to the vote, to work the entire day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u210	Jurassic insists on the reptiles, please. I'll put it to the vote now. I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say something we've hardly talked about here. Half the hall is majors who are elected by the people. So if a national MP is actually looking after his own district, there's no stopping the work of schools and they're not getting rid of them. Here I am near Nechayev, a deputy also elected from Crimea. By the way, we went to all the circuit board sessions where the question of stopping or eliminating rural schools was never stopped and no school was eliminated. So this is a very important aspect when we work with local governments, local administrations, schools won't be closed, they'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u212	I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. You don't have to talk about it. The MPs have signed up. Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Zubcevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u213	Zubchevsky, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! [[B in m in s a l in]] The issue that we are discussing is, in fact, a sinister one. The closure of schools in rural areas has become a harmful system. On more than one occasion, there was a message in these walls that there was no school — no village. And that's really true. The faction, as Petr Nikolaevich said, will be willing to support the bill on the imposition of a moratorium. However, the bill did not provide an answer as to how to stop the extinction of the rural population. I recall that more than 600 settlements have disappeared in the years of independence from the map of Ukraine. It should be made clear that in 22 years all that has been done is: the country's failed economy, the failed education system, the destruction of colloughs and neighbors, the socio-cultural base in the country, the destruction of health care, pre-school education. The bill also does not contain what needs to be done to support the village; how to increase the cost of the village; what needs to be done to support young professionals, how to attract them to work in rural areas; and how to create new jobs. Nor is it that there is no responsibility for those who have destroyed agriculture in their time. I would like to remind you that the author of this bill is from an orange camp. It was during his college years that he fought actively with Soviet power in tent towns in the 1989s and 1990s. This struggle has led to the destruction of the economy and the disappearance of 5 million Ukrainians. First, you must repent to the people for what has been done by your hands, the so-called national Democrats, and then introduce legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u214	The Fatherland faction. National deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u216	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u217	Thank you, my colleague. Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. If you look at the system that is now in place to close schools in Ukraine, you can say that 90 percent of such processes are happening in rural areas. By procedure, there must be agreement between local authorities to carry out certain reforms related to school closures, no closures, no hospital closures. So what's going on now? 87 percent of local governments were formed in 2010 in elections with the majority of the Party of Regions. I'd like someone who says that they work in their districts and they won't let them close schools, I don't know how you don't let them do it. Well, maybe one day you're influencing the Smoker, maybe you're going out on Kabmin. But we're not getting out of the DA's office right now. We're through the D.A., through the courts, trying to stop these trials. An excellent example. Vinnitsk district, Kozyatin district There are two schools closing down! I mean, kids come to school with their parents on September 1st, and schools are closed! First of all, we didn't report it. Second, they did so when the learning process began. Thirdly, the authorities of local self-government disagreed! They signed a paper on their knees, and now they've been in court for three months, and the teaching process is going on, and the students aren't learning. Some parents try to set them up, for example. Well, you know, this trend only speaks of one thing. Or the Party of Regions will realize that this is harmful and will come to some conclusions. Because if you are introducing this reform, understand that there must be roads, there must be buses to lead them somewhere. Besides, see how these schools are financed! How much money is spent on one student in a rural area! The budget bill says, 25 bucks. There's less than 5 bracelets coming out of these filters in the area, in areas and other administrations. So say it's good that whoever works can stop it. Why fight this in the first place? Who invented this idea and how much money they want to save on our future, our children. So it seems to me that if this trend today in this room is not voted and stopped, believe me, the Party of Regions in the local council elections will tell you nothing. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u218	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, National Deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u219	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u220	Please, Sergey Kaplin. Come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u221	Dear voters! Honorable TV sets, radio sets, and colleagues! Well, first of all, I'd like to say that once the school is closed in the village, that's the first step towards destroying the village. Just as you haven't restored kindergartens, you'll never get back to school. The other one. I'd like to have Mr. Tobacco, those heads of district administrations and deputies who voted to destroy schools today not only in the villages but also in the cities to teach a little math lesson. All right. One hundred and forty-three schools are about to close. They want to save 44 million dollars. Is it all right that this is just 1 percent of the 2.4 billion dollars spent on us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's Administration?Oh, my God! So maybe we can cut the cost of these 3 institutions and save all the schools, the ones that shut down. And it's not that it's 1.3 billion dollars spent on managing the affairs of the President of Ukraine on DUSU. And some tiny 40 million you want to save. Is that three times less than the cost of the President's flight, or five times less?Oh, my God! It's not that it's exactly the amount that's spent on transporting deputies' cars. Deputies who don't drive these cars. And that money is stolen and cheated. And nothing that is four times less than what is spent preparing some officials that no one knows can see at the Academy of the President of Ukraine, where 177 million dollars per year are removed from the taxpayer's wallet? What is it that is seven times less than 268 million dollars spent on building new state houses for the DUS (this is the Office of the President of Ukraine)? Is it all right that it's twice as much as it's spent treating MPs in sanitariums? I want to say that some Ukrainian school advocates who say that, as if in Soviet times, no one has touched these schools, they have no right to talk about it. There is no Communist Party in Ukraine. There are no Communists in Ukraine. If Vladimir Ilchi Lenin and all your leaders had seen and heard you push there, voting for Azar, they would have turned around in their mausoleums. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u222	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the National Deputy of Karpunts.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u223	Please pass the word to Alexander Mochkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u224	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u225	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, my colleague Rostislav Pavlenko has asked, Vladimir Vasilovich, personally to you regarding the continuation of our plenary to put this question to the vote. Because today, society and all of our Ukrainian citizens are looking forward to the social and political issues that stand in order today, and I understand that we are not able to deal with them right now. This is about my colleague Rostislav Pavlenko's suggestions. I would also like to point out that the question of introducing a moratorium on the closure of general secondary education institutions located in rural areas. The Impact faction considers it unacceptable to close the general secondary education system in rural areas, perhaps on the basis of some lack of funding for their maintenance. I would like to point out that, according to article 53 of the Constitution, full secondary education is compulsory in the country. The state, along with local authorities, should guarantee educational services in schools, schools, schools, and colleges on a free basis for every rural child. However, data from the Institute of Demographics show that the number of students in the village has dropped by almost 800,000 in the last 20 years. The overall decline in the number of children will inevitably have a negative impact on the network of general educational institutions, resulting in a decrease in the average enrolment of classes and schools. Also, during the years of independence, about a thousand schools have been closed down. I was going to say that the strike faction will support this Order and we will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to work in the morning to address this issue. Let's take a look at this, and I'll put the vote to continue the session until the full agenda for today's agreement is reached? Prepare to vote. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national MP of Borita.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u227	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Olga Borita. I give my word to my colleague Alexander the Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u228	Please, Alexander the Priest.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u229	Alexander the Jury, faction of the Company of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear voters, I would like to give a little more attention to this issue, which today relates to education. There is absolutely no educational problem for communists. Because we believe that this right should be accessible, it must be qualitative, and every child has the right to have the right to education. I would like to recall that, despite all the disagreements, even after the civil war, the Communists had adopted a system of education entirely for all children. And then the people had money, and then the State had money, because the State did not consider the communists, did not see the right to education as a commercial right. However, since 1991, like all aspects of our lives, all the rights of our fellow citizens have begun to be commercialized. As a result, today, you think about the figure, 300,000 children -- United Nations estimates -- do not go to school for various reasons. One reason is that parents are insolvent and that they do not have adequate income. Here's the market economy, here's what capitalism is, and here's what the current power of oligarchs and nationalists combined is. Because, when nationalists are in power in three areas today, the situation is totally unchanged. Schools are closed there too, and children do not go to these schools, and there are these problems. I would also like to point out that, of course, we are realistic and truly aware that this draft decision will not resolve the situation. The situation today is compounded by the fact that, by disrupting and destroying large-scale productions in the Ukrainian village, a slow-acting mine has actually been laid on the part that the Ukrainian village is now disappearing. In the past, the Colgos and the Radospas were the very enterprises that carried the entire social infrastructure, they were responsible for kindergartens, they were responsible for schools, and they destroyed the large commercial production in the village, they destroyed the Ukrainian village, and this is the result of the disappearance of the Ukrainian school today, and our actions are uneducated. That's why the UK Company is always stressing the need to rebuild the village, the need to create jobs there, large-scale agricultural production, the creation of cooperatives as a solid base and institution for Ukrainian schools to be, and our Ukrainian children to be educated and literate in the new millennium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, you can't hear yourself. He was speaking in national language. Let's hear it. I'll give it to Simonka. You don't have to call it a party. Please, a minute, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't answer UDARENA's MP to the lines he's throwing at the Company's address. He's not worth answering, because obviously what he ends up doing on the Supreme Council, and it scares me very much. But in general what he does all the time during his performances, I think we need to make the main conclusion as a clinic, "the circus is gone and one clown is lost."
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u232	It's a closing statement. Is there a reporter? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. There's no replica. Please. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised, I'm terribly surprised, because I expected everyone in this room to support this decision, as there really is no school, no village. I was surprised that the whole faction refused to support it, and two factions, ultra right and ultra right, were even personal attacks. You know, I'm only going to name two digits per remainder. First, the overall provision of rural settlements by schools is only about 46.5 percent. So we have less than half of the schools in the villages and so, and they're still shrinking. And the second. That's the answer for the school bus program. More than two thousand children live outside a walking distance of more than two miles [3 km] of accessibility and need a ride. Unfortunately, a school bus at this point does not satisfy all the villages, and you may know that this is true in every area of your life. It's about the question of previous power. This is where Vladimir Litwin sits, and he's making a similar moratorium ruling for the previous authorities, and it's been voted, passed by the Science and Education Committee, thanks to the late Volodymyr Polohal. And we have supported this resolution in this room, and today's authorities show that there's not enough votes. Now for personal concerns. I was here on the side of an ultra-deputy charge that I should repent of fighting for independence. I'm not going to repent, on the contrary, I'm proud to have fought for independence. Do I regret that the state now looks like this? I am truly sorry, and I especially regret that the Company, which was justly banned in 1991, was then reregistered. That's what I'm sorry about. Now an ultra right representative, a former district council official, who came out here and said that more should be written on the district council. Yeah, they're a minority here, and in the district council, they control most of them. So I'll remind you, in this majority, until I made a parliamentary appeal to close schools in my district in Colomia, in the township, they didn't even listen. And finally, after only my deputy's appeal, that decision was over. And then I made a statement in Tishkovitsa, this is Horrodkovščina, this is the village of the family of the Suhevićs, about the Museum of Suhević. So the district council with the ultranationalists doesn't want to finance the Sukhevich Museum. Let them vote first for this decision and then point to others. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, you have denied me my parliamentary address at the Sukhevich Museum in Tishkovits, and do not lie. And now, for everyone, there is a choice. We're four factions who said they were ready to vote, and they're non-fractional. Even without the Party of Votes, it would have been enough. And now it's a test for discipline, and it's a test of who's not just trending.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u234	Lilia Mikhailno, do you have a closing word? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u235	I'll close the session now. I say again, you're obstructing work, I'm closing the session now. Lillie Mikhailno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus on understanding this problem. Unfortunately, the party of regions that quoted us all today should also know that these decisions of the community are being falsified in the realities of life. And we have to have a clear position of the Supreme Council on state policy in the village. We have to save the village school because it's not true when they say that the village is dying and that's why we have to shut down the school. We close schools, so the village dies. Please vote in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2013-09-18-m0.u237	Thank you. I'm voting on the Bill of Decree (No. 2367) on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of general secondary education institutions located in rural areas for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[14:10:28]] For 186 Against 0, holding back, 16, not 152. The decision is not taken. Factions: Region Party 4, Fatherland 68, Vitalia Klicka, 31, Freedom Union 36, Ukraine Company 32, non-factional 15. Dear National MPs, National Deputy Rostislav Pavlenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, write up your application. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your question won't be put to the vote? Now, I'm putting to the vote the proposal by Rostislav Pavlenko of the Impact faction to continue the work of the session today until the issue of order is fully addressed today. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote please! [[14:12:03]] For-183 That's how it works! Against - 3, held - 7, did not vote 112. The decision is not taken. The factions. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. All deputies are going to work on the committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our consideration of the agenda.
